ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Prime Minister for his memorial statement on the segregation of the metises in the period of Belgian colonization in Africa, let me briefly outline the historical and political context which led to several parliamentary assemblies in Belgium having placed the issue on the political agenda. This is, after all, a past that is still topical, but it is also more than that. This file is about symbols, but above all about people. This file is sensitive and even traumatic for some. I would also like to welcome the presence in this Chamber of several representatives of the Associations miXed2020 and Métis of Belgium/Metis van België, which bring together the Métis born in the territories under Belgian colonial domination. For many years, the discrimination suffered by the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa was considered a taboo subject in Belgium and often unknown. However, thousands of Métis children who had grown up without knowing their true family and who had been placed in orphanages and foster families between 1959 and 1962, sometimes deprived of birth or nationality. The ball is rolling in Flanders. Following the actions of Mater Matuta vzw and research by several historians, the Flemish Parliament unanimously adopted two resolutions in January and June 2015 recognising the victims of the forced adoptions. On 24 November 2015, the Flemish Parliament also offered public apologies. An important symposium was held in the Senate on April 25, 2017. This colloquium was an opportunity to address, inter alia, the question of the arbitrary classification of Métis by the colonial administration as subjects of customary law and non-citizens of Belgian civil law and to learn about the study of the Cegesoma (Centre d'études et de documentation Guerre et Sociétés contemporain) on the transfer of Métis children to Belgium at the end of the colonial period. In June and July 2017, three other parliamentary assemblies, namely the Senate, the Parliament of the French Community, of which I welcome the President, and the Brussels-speaking Parliament, also adopted a resolution on this segregation. Several fellow Members have therefore rightly held that the Chamber could not be left behind. Therefore, on 7 March 2018, the Committee on External Relations unanimously adopted a resolution so that the Chamber of Representatives would also give an opinion on this issue and would officially recognise the facts. It was also intended to instruct the Government to undertake a number of actions allowing at least partial reparation for persons who had in one way or another suffered the actions of the Belgian authorities in these circumstances. This resolution was then adopted by the House at the plenary session on March 29, 2018. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of meteors has been raised in Parliament. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discrimination against metises from Belgian colonisation in Africa has been kept quiet for a long time. However, on the eve of the African wave of independence, several thousand metis children lived in Belgian Africa. In most cases these were children of Belgian men who had a post there and Congolese, Rwandan or Burundian women. In the regime of the colonial state, mixed couples were prohibited. They were subjected to social stigmatisation and sanctions. Metischildren were seen as a problem, as dangerous elements and even as a threat to the colonial system. The colonial authorities and the Belgian State then took measures to combat racial mixing. These children were kidnapped by their African mothers and usually raised far away from whites and blacks by religious in orphanages or boarding schools. Between 1959 and 1962, the Belgian State organized the expulsion of hundreds of these children to Belgium. That usually happened without the permission of the African mothers. The children were either adopted by Belgian families, or placed in foster homes or institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the distribution of Métis children throughout Belgium was done by separating fratries and resulting in loss of identity due to different changes in first names, names and even dates of birth. Many have been without birth certificates or identity papers. Another factor has also aggravated the situation of Métis children. In Belgian Africa, the Métis were considered to belong to the category of higher degree of civilization known as "evolved" because of their partly white origins and, if their father had recognized them, they were Belgian citizens. However, a ministerial circular of 24 September 1960 addressed to the mayors recommended that, if the bond of filiation was not established, the child should be considered an African. For those whose ties were not established, identity cards for foreigners were therefore granted. Despite the fact that, later on, the laws allowed for the recovery of this nationality within a certain period of time, due to lack of information, few Métis made use of it and many of them had to go through the naturalization procedure in order to acquire Belgian nationality. It was difficult and extremely painful for Métis children to rebuild their lives in Belgium. The emotional abandonment experienced during childhood, uprooting, administrative difficulties and the need to assume a dual identity without knowing its origins undoubtedly constituted a daily challenge and a real suffering. Last year, the Chamber unanimously adopted a resolution which I quote: 'Recognizes the targeted segregation of which metises were victims under the colonial administration of Belgian Congo and Rwanda-Urundi until 1962 and after decolonization, as well as the related policy of forced kidnapping'. The Catholic Church of Belgium has also apologized to the metis victims for the role she has played. During the hearings, the federal government undertook to take into account the results of your work. Several meetings were also held, with the various cabinets and administrations concerned, as well as with the representatives of the Metis Association of Belgium. A cooperation agreement was concluded between the FPS Foreign Affairs and the National Archives. The two objectives are the consultation and strengthening of data to stakeholders and the scientific study. This research will be spread over four years. A first financing of EUR 50 000 has already been achieved. In addition, the personal files of metises from colonisation that were kept in the Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren are transferred to the National Archives. The association Metis of Belgium has drawn up a list of difficulties which they are still experiencing. As regards Belgian nationality, the persons concerned were invited to submit their individual application, supported by a relevant and complete file, to the FPS Justice Department. The FOD will then investigate it within the limits of its powers. As far as civil status documents are concerned, the FPS Justice will provide solutions to the problems referred to as soon as possible within the existing legal framework. In addition, the Minister of Justice has advised the College of Attorneys General on any difficulties encountered by the persons concerned in connection with ongoing individual proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, by establishing a system of targeted segregation against the Métis and their families in Belgian colonial Africa, the Belgian State has committed acts contrary to respect for fundamental human rights. That is why, on behalf of the federal government, I recognize the targeted segregation of the Métis under the colonial administration of the Belgian Congo and the Ruanda-Urundi until 1962 and following decolonization, as well as the policy of forced abduction. On behalf of the Belgian federal government, I apologize to the Métis of Belgian colonization and to their families for the injustices and suffering they have suffered. I also wish to express our compassion for the African mothers whose children have been torn off. I hope that this solemn moment will be an additional step towards a broad awareness and awareness of our national history. I also hope, of course, that this declaration will strengthen our determination to fight continuously against all forms of discrimination, racism or xenophobia. Despite this tragic history, many Métis from colonization have been actively involved in the development of a more open and tolerant society, rich in its diversity. This opens the hope for the future that all of us will be optimistic messengers for a respectful and solid alliance between Europe and Africa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u4	Colleagues, this is a moment of recognition and remembrance. May I ask you to stand up and observe a few moments of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u5	The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u6	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u7	Prime Minister, I have read that you already mention a far too limited declaration of revision of the Constitution as Community madness. I have also read that you have already consulted with the presidents of CD&V and Open Vld. It is again the participation that governs, not the Chamber. I also know, of course, that there is a note from the services of the Chamber, in which it is said that a government in current affairs should not simply take over the statements adopted by the Chamber and Senate. I know that this is also your position. The notes of the services are usually of excellent quality, but not this time, because that view is wrong. The letter of the services assumes that Article 195 confers power on the government. That's not true. Read article 195, which dates from 1831 and exhales that spirit of time. It grants that power to the King, with the co-signing of one minister. The government has nothing to do with that. Then we need to look at what a minister can do in current cases. He can't make decisions that have a political dimension, he can't. In principle, the adoption of a declaration of constitutional revision is such an act. But it is true that the teachings of current affairs protect the prerogatives, not of the government, but of Parliament. So what you can do is take over the statement from Chamber and Senate. You can, because that does not compromise the powers of Chamber and Senate. What you cannot do as Minister in current cases is change those statements. That is a decision of political significance, and you cannot do so as a minister in current affairs. Let us be equally serious, Prime Minister. If only a resolution on Marrakech is adopted here, you say that you should go to Marrakech, that the Chamber commands you to do so. But if the Chamber adopts a declaration to revise the Constitution, you say that this does not bind you at all. That's not serious, that's contradictory. I would like to know your position on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are not separatists. We are democrats. We believe that a government of current affairs best respects the work of a parliament in relation to the Constitution. We do not dream of changing all the articles, such as the colleagues of the N-VA and the Flemish Interest. We do believe that our Constitution can be updated and renewed. That is why, Prime Minister, our Group Ecolo-Groen has made the exercise to put together, across the language line, a common list on how our Constitution can become better and more forward-looking. Ninety percent of these articles have been taken over in the Chambers Committee. There have even been other interesting articles added. There is an interesting list before us today, Prime Minister. A list that allows a federal constituency to be established, that bridge builders are rewarded instead of pyromaniacs, a list that allows young people to participate more in politics by allowing the right to vote from the age of 16, a list that makes it possible to anchor some fundamental rights in our Constitution and deepen them. Giving these things a place in our Constitution would really be a dam against advancing nationalism and populism. However, you do not seem to like that list, Prime Minister. You refuse to enter into dialogue with Parliament on this subject, despite our insistence. Today, on Twitter, you announced that this is Community madness. Mr Prime Minister, the list we have prepared is not Community madness. Let me make it clear that we, as ecologists, will not support the revision of Article 1. We do not want that article on that list. All other articles, Prime Minister, deserve a future. If you are genuinely concerned about the stability and institutions of this country, about the future of Belgium, then you will get to work on the exercise that has taken place in Parliament. I would very much like to have a very clear commitment from you and your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just looked up the word'madness'. This means: insanity, illness in the head, and since today: to declare a list of articles with a possible Community impact subject to review. Prime Minister, you have enriched our language with a new definition which is somewhat contrary to the classical meaning of the word madness. You said in your tweet: I will oppose the opening up of Community articles from the government. We have just heard Mr Calvo argue in the same spirit to hold a debate on all the things he agrees with. We have adopted a different attitude. We say that the debate must be able to take place in full width. The fact that you have certain Community views, Prime Minister, does not alter it or adds anything to it. Let us not forget that this is a list of articles in which any amendment to the Constitution will have to have a two-thirds majority in the next legislature. You can hardly say that any decision supported by two thirds of the two chambers is in the'madness' category, otherwise you will have to change the definition very much. The government, as we hear now, is determined by consensus. That's a new course. This was clearly different in the period of the Marrakesh Pact. Maybe you learned from that period. In any case, the fall of the government cannot be a free pass to ignore any democratic decency. I do not believe that the salvation of this debate will be achieved by lawyers. The interpretations of what you can and cannot do will be very far apart. This is about political decency. My questions as a result of your statement of 11.01 p.m. are: who did you make that statement on, and will you really block a democratic decision by Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u10	Mr President, I can be brief, because I have already attracted the debate twice here. I would like to address Mr Michel in his dual capacity. I should like to address him in his capacity as chairman of the MR and to Mr Michel in his capacity as Prime Minister. In his capacity as chairman of the MR, I can tell him that my group fully agrees with the fact that we must give absolute priority to socio-economic matters in the next legislature. Our country cannot afford the luxury of negotiating a new state reform for hundreds of days. That is not the intention of the forthcoming elections for my group and for my party. The opposite is true. Mr Michel, the Liberal axis, if I may call it that, would certainly make that point clear to the electorate. I now turn to Mr Michel in his capacity as Prime Minister. We are on the eve of a possible pre-constituent. Mr President, your Chamber is about to adopt a list of articles. Mr Michel, allow me to be very clear. My group has tabled a list which has nothing to do with Community ambition. My group has tabled a list with a view to any reduction in the state, such as the role of the Senate and the federal constituency. In particular, it has submitted a list of articles dealing with constitutional rights and freedoms. Following the attacks of 22 March, many people have asked themselves what prevails in this country. Is that the law of religion or is that the Constitution and are those the laws and decrees of the Belgian people? That's the question that arises. That is why, Mr Michel, we presented our list, with, in the main order, an introduction to the Constitution or preamble, because a number of fundamental principles such as equality between men and women, the right to self-determination and freedom of expression are values that we have inherited from the Enlightenment, but which are apparently not interpreted in the same way by everyone. There is therefore a need in the Constitution for more than one toilet. That is why we are asking for a preamble, which we in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution, Mr President, have also shared with various political groups. Not everyone agrees, but with sp.a and PS, Open Vld and MR and Ecolo-Groen there was certainly a large majority to do that exercise. My question is this. If the Chamber, with full powers, comes to such a list, if the Senate does the same and if your government no longer has the full power since you are a government in current affairs, do you think it is democratic decency and democratic legitimacy to say that the government is going to block or partially remove that list? After all, that list has a majority in the Chamber and the Senate. If you did that, that would be unwise and actually indecent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u11	Prime Minister, we were concerned about the passivity of the government and the activism of certain parties in Parliament, in particular the activism of Flemish nationalists and separatists. Do not rely on the CDH to embark on a great institutional adventure. Some have only one objective: to hurt Belgium. I am pleased with your tweet, because in the end, you are assuming your role and responsibility as Prime Minister, saying that you are not linked in any way to a proposal for a review declaration from either the House or the Senate. Some, as we have just heard now, try, by all means, to impose a small song. Some of the colleagues here are trying to reduce the government to a benign-yes-yes government. Yet the reality is quite different. The government has full latitude; it acts autonomously as one of the three branches of the legislative power. It may, therefore, decide freely on a list of items to be opened for review, regardless of the list adopted by the House or by the Senate. The legal opinion of the services of the House, of your services, moreover, is clear. I quote his conclusion: "Nothing obliges, from a legal point of view, the resigning government, in its capacity as the third branch of the legislative power, to reproduce the revision declarations adopted by the House and the Senate". The way in which some interpret things, depending on what suits them, is therefore purely opportunistic politics. Prime Minister, when I hear the statements of the parties of your minority government, I still have a question. Did you write this tweet in your capacity as Prime Minister? Is your position, expressed in this tweet, the position of the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the revision of the Constitution, the MR Group has been clear from the outset. We don't want to open the community Pandora's box. There is no need for an institutional adventure. Like the dominant doctrine, referred to in committee by our constitutionalist colleague, Mr Delperée, and as the legal services had also indicated in the debate in committee, we believe that a government in current affairs cannot endorse articles that were not on the list of the previous government, i.e. the list of Di Rupo. In addition to this legal filter, the MR Group adds that we must close the articles on the Di Rupo list that could engage our country in community debates. We're thinking about article 63, for example. You know very well – and the history of our country has shown it – that when we open an article with a community connotation, the debate loses its serenity and we move on to certain institutional adventures. Finally, our position with regard to this debate is that, in the list which was adopted in committee this Tuesday, certain articles raise questions. I am of course thinking of Article 1 which speaks of Belgium, which is a federal state. There, we really touch the heart of our country. I am also thinking of the article on the promulgation of laws by the King. That's what royalty skills are all about. There is also the article on the functioning of the Council of Ministers which risks undermining the balance between the North and the South. It is well known that the preconstituent does not bind the constituent and, therefore, even if one comes with ideas that are positive and might be favourable, one cannot prevent the constituent from moving towards another path if the article is open for revision. Mr Dewael, the MR does not deny its values, but we are concerned that if we open some debates for good reasons, particularly on values, these articles are used for other reasons which are obviously Community. We don't want to take that risk. The MR refuses that. Belgium needs serenity and progress on economic, social and environmental matters. We do not want a seventh reform of the State. We will not be sorcerer apprentices. We don't want another 541-day block. Prime Minister, what is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the reasoning of some Members who have spoken that this debate is partly a legal debate, but to a large extent also a political debate. There is no doubt about that. At the legal level, there are three principles in this discussion in the context of an exercise to revise the Constitution. The first principle is that three lists are needed: a list of the Chamber, a list of the Senate and a list of the government, including a government in current cases. This was clearly confirmed by the services of the Chamber. Second, when the government is in day-to-day business, it cannot establish a list of items that are additional to the existing list. The only exception was in 2010 where a government in day-to-day affairs still had a majority in Parliament. The third legal principle is not a detail. Perhaps it has gone unnoticed in the parliamentary work of the last few hours, which has led me to carry this morning's message and which I assume. When articles are open for revision, the pre-constituent (this House, the Senate and the government) must identify the objectives and reasons for opening a revised article. But the grantor is not bound by these objectives, unless it is to include a new article in the Constitution. It is in the light of these three principles that the debate must be conducted. It is a political debate on whether or not to open articles of the revised Constitution. Democracy is to ensure in all circumstances that the principles and procedures guaranteeing balance between the various branches of power are respected. We called the Enlightenment. The separation of powers, according to Montesquieu, is precisely to ensure that there are mutual and mutual safeguards and controls. It is the meaning of article 195 of the Constitution that organizes, in line with article 36, this idea of a freedom of assessment of each body. Moreover, the Government is a joint body. It's not a detail either. This is a first point on the legal front. Secondly, this is indeed a political debate. At political level, it is not the first time that I have given that message as Prime Minister, and I will fight to the maximum against the risk of a Community chaos after the next elections. Why should I fight to the maximum against the risk of Community chaos? I do so because I have seen over the past few decades that in our country there has been either a Community story, an institutional crisis, an institutional debate, or socio-economic reforms for more prosperity, more jobs and more investment, including with your party, Mr De Roover. In our history, at no time has it been possible at the same time to carry out major Community and institutional reforms and economic and social reforms. In this context, we will continue the discussions in the government. In this way I will give my point of view, which is already known to my partners. One possibility could be to use the last list, that of 2014 and to remove articles with a Community and institutional dimension. This is one of the avenues that could be debated within the government. On the other hand – this is not a detail – the Senate will also have to speak on the subject. That's why I'm here. I'm consistent. I will ensure respect for democratic and constitutional principles, which require the House to rule, the Senate to rule, and the government to rule. My choice is clear, I assume, and I will fight, as Prime Minister in government, for no institutional item to be included in the list. One final point. Mr Dewael, Mr Calvo, I believe in the honesty of some groups in this regard. I believe you when you say that you are not in favour of Community chaos. On the other hand, Mr Dewael, when you support Article 1 of the Constitution, which states that Belgium is a federal State composed of the Communities and the Regions, it is a pleasure for all nationalists and separatists, who perceive that the road is open for the next time. When you open articles on the monarchy, it is a pleasure for those who want to attack the dismantling of the country. When you open the articles that organize parity within the government, you touch on fundamental institutional aspects, even if it is a good intention. The grantor is not bound by the preconstituent. I am vigilant, I am responsible and I will fight, I will roll up my sleeves to try to reduce the risk of community chaos that leads to division and impoverishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u14	Prime Minister, it must remain coherent and serious. What did you say? You said that in current cases a government can only continue the declaration, adopted in 2014, and you refer to precedents. Two minutes later, you say that we are taking the statement from the Di Rupo government and we are going to take matters out of there. Two things one: either you can change this, or you cannot change it. What was the precedent in 2010? In that case, articles were added to the Constitutional Review Declaration, compared to 2007. Why couldn't I? Because the government then followed the statement that was approved in the Chamber and Senate. That's why the government could do that in current cases. You are now making a hocus pocus in your favor of how it suits you. One you can do, the other you can't. I'll give you one in 20 for constitutional rights, for your presence here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u15	Prime Minister, what a late conversion! For four and a half years you have outsourced our country to Flemish nationalists. Four and a half years ago, you gave the keys to Rue de la Loi 16 to N-VA. Today you come to us, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, and teach us the lesson in the fight against nationalism? We have fought this battle every day in recent years. We believe that the Constitution is not just for nationalists. After all, the Constitution does not only serve to divide the country, as we believe that the Constitution can also bring people closer together. We do not leave the debate to nationalists. So the distinction is not who likes the country and wants to keep the country together. Ecolo-Green obviously wants to hold the country together; we are working on this every day. The difference is that we are not avoiding the debate. For example, we are convinced that a majority in the country is in favour of a federal constituency. We believe that people are looking for a Constitution that is more ambitious in terms of fundamental rights. We are not afraid to engage in this debate with Mr De Roover or Mr De Wever of N-VA. Prime Minister, you seem to be afraid of this, because you believe that the Constitution must be implemented, because the electorate may be making a wrong decision or because some people may still change their minds after the elections. That is why you want to keep the Constitution now. Well, we in Ecolo-Groen are in a different way. We do not give in and we will never approve of Mr De Roover's wishes. We do want other things. That is why we are calling for the government of current affairs to act correctly. Maybe we can expect it from Erdogan or Putin, but I don't expect you to be a bad... [[Rumor]] Mr. Clarinval, I complimented the Prime Minister. I made an assumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u16	That is populism, Mr Calvo. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u17	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u18	I was actually complimenting the Prime Minister. I said that this could be expected from an Erdogan, an Orban or a Putin, but I believe that is not how our Prime Minister works. Hence my call to come together, without nationalists, to a list that renews our country and brings the Belgians closer together. We will continue to fight for it until the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u19	Mr President, Mr Michel, I would like to confine the political debate to those things that you yourself like, but I would expect that from Kristof Calvo, but not from you. The reasoning you have put forward here sounds a little strange. Since I do not have a majority, I have the right to whistle back the majority of Parliament. Fortunately, you no longer have a majority, otherwise you would not have been able to recite the majority of Parliament. There's something crooked in that reasoning, if you'll allow me to note that here. Of course, it is your conviction that there should be no Community round. I don't want to contradict your beliefs either. You can defend it here, our question is to be able to have the full, wide-ranging debate. If it was your intention to demonstrate that there are two democracies in this country, then you have illustrated that very well. I will say it in your language: "Chasse le naturel, il revient au galop." It is my belief that a Parliament should not be silenced, that democracy should not be muzzled. If you did do that with a minority government, you'd be writing history. I won't tell you which side of history you're on, you're usually the one who determines that position. If we are talking about history, we could amend Article 1 of the Constitution: Belgium originated from separatism. That would be another mathematical, statistical fact that we can then establish. Mr President, I am not saying Prime Minister Michel O'Brien, I have the impression that you have really lost the North now. And you can take that literally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u20	Mr President, we will soon be debating the articles that will be rejected and the articles that will not be reviewed. The Government does not submit a list of articles which may be revised as it traditionally does because it no longer has full competence. A list of articles was drawn up in a democratic manner at the committee meeting. Today, the House has to take a decision on this. I have already said in plenary this morning that I do not understand why you are sending a tweet at 11:02 p.m., Mr Prime Minister, saying that you will oppose it. That's not correct. Prime Minister, you are not a party to the debate that is taking place in the Chamber. You are not a party to the debate that will take place in the Senate. You will do with your minority government what you think you should do. If you have no consensus in the lap of your minority government, you will be able to block everything. That is the reality. You will be able to block everything because there could be no consensus. The minority government has 52 members in the Chamber. That is not even certain in all the votes. Let me say for the umpteenth time that it is not democratic for a minority government to oppose the will of a majority in the Chamber and the Senate. It doesn't happen. [[.]] People don't do that. You can't do that. There are no precedents for that. It's not about a state reform, Prime Minister. It is not about Community kisses, but it is about fundamental rights. I'm presenting you with a challenge. You're chairman of the MR. There was a majority in the Constitutional Review Committee to register a preamble, prior to Article 1. The thing that binds us, the thing that unites us in this country, there was a majority for it. If there is a democratic majority here in favour of a preamble, then my group will not approve the revision of Article 1 proposed by CD&V, because I know that Article 1 is a very Community-bound article, but why do I put this question very clearly to you, as chairman of the MR................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ People don't do that. Let democratic majorities in the Chamber have the opportunity to sign off. The government has to accept that. No more, no less.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you. Mr Calvo, I would like to address you first. The excessive comments are insignificant and I absolutely do not want to respond to your slippage. On the other hand, I want to tell you that, yes, the Constitution can of course be used to bring citizens together. Yes, as far as the articles that some want to open for revision are concerned, it is a matter of simply hurting Belgium and embarking on a great institutional adventure. We will not follow you on this! Prime Minister, the fine paradox I am observing today is that among the parties present here and who have spoken, some want the government to be able to do everything at certain times and others, such as here with the declaration of constitutional revision, they would like the government to be a benign-yes-yes and follow the line decided by the House or the Senate. You spoke. We must also understand that there is not yet a position on the government side. I hope you show firmness. It seems to me necessary, if not indispensable, to avoid what you yourself call chaos, community madness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u22	Prime Minister, the debate we have just heard and the language differences of some of us clearly demonstrate, if we still had to demonstrate this, that you are right to remain wise in the midst of these dangerous demands for the stability of our country. Our country needs strong socio-economic measures, not community chaos. The last time we embarked on this course, Mr. Calvo, it gave us 541 days of immobilization. At MR, we do not want this to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u23	Mr Minister, at the end of last week the Court of Auditors delivered a report on the evaluation of flexi-jobs in the catering industry to Parliament. This shows that at least 35% of flexi-jobs do not generate additional employment, but is a shift from ordinary work to flexi-jobs. This also means that there are fewer social contributions to social security. Flexi-jobs have reduced undeclared work and are there to cope with peak moments, but we have always warned that the system should not be at the expense of regular employment or undermine the funding of social security. That was our concern, and that is why our group has always called for an evaluation before extending it to other sectors. We have also asked the Minister for Social Affairs on several occasions for this evaluation, but it has still not been carried out today. Now that our concern is right, an evaluation and adjustment of flexi-jobs is pressing, especially in consultation with the social partners in the sector. In our view, it is no longer justified that such by-jobs, which can only be performed by people who work or are retired, deny jobs to people who seek work. That is why we would like to suggest that the evaluation should include the idea that flexi-jobs are also possible for the unemployed, on a path to work. By temporarily allowing them to combine a flexi job with unemployment benefits, as we do with community work, they gain experience and develop additional competences, which would strengthen their position in the labour market. Combining this with a reduction in charges for regular low-wage jobs would once again allow more regular jobs to be filled by the unemployed and the flexi jobs would no longer replace the regular jobs. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, what conclusions do you draw from the report? What elements do you see to counteract the displacement of ordinary jobs by flexi-jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u24	Mr Vercamer, first of all it is important to remind you that the previous and current governments have done a lot for the catering industry. We have introduced the registered cash register system, adjusted the VAT rate and introduced specific charges reductions. The final part was the restaurant plan 2015. All this has had an effect too. The figures for global employment in the Court of Auditors sector show that the number of full-time equivalents has increased from 75 000 in 2015 to 87 000 in 2018. This is an increase of 15.9 %, which is higher than the increase in other sectors, which was only 4%. It is also important to note that the flexi-jobs have mainly replaced casual work. Today there are 5 382 full-time flexi jobs in the hospitality industry, about 6% of total employment in full-time equivalents. I come to the criticism of the Court of Auditors. Firstly, the Court of Auditors says that there was insufficient evaluation. This needs to be nuanced: for certain points raised by the Court of Auditors, the evaluation must be refined by those who have to carry them out. Secondly, as regards shift effects of flexible work, the Court of Auditors' theorem that flexi-jobs do not initially fill flexible hours, since it is weekend work, must be looked at more closely. You also mentioned undeclared work. Well, the Court of Auditors is very positive in this respect, because it sees a reduction of 20.5%. Moreover, in other sectors too, a similar decline in undeclared work was observed. The conclusion is therefore that the audit report of the Court of Auditors gives a nuanced picture of the flexi-jobs. On the one hand, the Catering Plan and other measures have contributed to a strong increase in employment in the catering industry. On the other hand, the Court of Auditors makes it very clear that the evaluation needs to be refined and clarified in a number of areas. I assume that in the next legislature the evaluation will be further refined on the basis of the points raised by the Court of Auditors. Then we can open a wider debate, including on your proposal to allow the unemployed to exercise flexi-jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Together with you, we are calling for a thorough evaluation, which is really necessary. Everyone in the hemisphere knows that I am a cool lover of flexi-jobs, but perhaps I can be persuaded of the usefulness if the system becomes a stepping stone for the unemployed, the unemployed who will be better protected by the combination from poverty and lead to permanent employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a controversy about the proceeds of tax fraud in this legislature. Figures would show that, although I have not yet received confirmation of this, my question is that in 2014 the proceeds of the BBI's fight against tax fraud would be around EUR 400 million, but that this would now have fallen to EUR 250 million. Those are, of course, heavy figures. In the Committee on Finance, we have always called for a stronger fight against tax fraud. The Panama Papers Committee of Inquiry was set up and we have supported a number of initiatives to get money from tax havens back to Belgium. Throughout the legislature, we have also devoted a great deal of energy to the regularisation of black money. My question, Minister, is whether we should interpret these figures as proof of a weaker policy against tax fraud? However, I had the impression that the BBI was very motivated. I haven't even doubted that at any time. Or is it a statistical distortion and a number of things, such as the regularisations, were not included in the figures for fraud? You now have that file again, Minister. What is your evaluation of recent years? There is a lot of demagogy about that. It is said that this government failed in the fight against tax fraud. I do not want to go so far as former Minister Van Overtveldt, who said that this is absolute nonsense, but the work we have done may well be evaluated. I do not have the impression that the fight against fraud has weakened in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u27	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been lied to for five years. For five years, in fact, your predecessors (first Mrs. Sleurs, then Mr. Van Overtveldt, Minister for the Fight against Tax Fraud) explains that the results are on the rise and that the policy to combat tax fraud is more effective than it was before – understand: under the previous legislature. We now have the figures and we are set. Your predecessor had defied himself of having a €2 billion recovery result from the Special Tax Inspectorate. Today, it appears that of these 2 billion, 1.3 billion were only one company, but also, and above all, that only 12 per cent of this amount was actually returned to the State funds. In terms of recovery rates, almost half of what was observed under the previous legislature. The resigning government is clearly failing in the fight against tax fraud. Should I add that some of the decisions taken were in the opposite direction? The abolition of the tax system of secret commissions, for example. The so-called "Caiman" tax, which, in the opinion of all, was rather a "passory" tax: it was supposed to bring in half a billion dollars, but in the end it allowed only 50 million to be raised, according to various sources, to mention just a few examples. Do I also have to say that the Special Tax Inspectorate, which came to the Panama Papers commission to ask for a hundred additional agents, did not see these agents coming? There were recruitments, of course, but they were largely insufficient. In short, the numbers and the facts are there. The resigning government of which you are a member – I am not personally burdening you, I am talking about a collective failure of the resigning government – has a clearly negative record. I therefore expect you to finally recognise the facts and to share with us your intentions for the few weeks remaining as regards a reboot of the policy on combating tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u28	Minister, the end of the legislature is approaching. It's time for governments, ministers, and yours to take stock. It is also time to take stock of the action of the Minister of Finance. You've only been in this position lately. What is that record? What about the budget, and the report of the Supreme Council of Finance? A hole is announced in the unchanged policy budget of EUR 11 billion, in particular because revenue from the fight against tax fraud has been regularly overestimated. The Court of Auditors said so. In Mr. Van Overtveldt and the government, the result of the fight against tax fraud has been the lowest since 2014. We were told billions; we are about 200 million. The total amount of fraud is estimated at between EUR 20 billion and EUR 30 billion. The balance sheet of your government is also this report by the Court of Auditors, published yesterday, on the control of professional discount exemptions. The Court of Auditors tells us that, in the absence of action by your predecessor, Mr. Van Overtveldt, the companies that benefited from professional discount reductions were not monitored. The reality of their spending on research and development, or in other areas, cannot be verified. A big gap in the budget, money thrown through the window, tax fraudsters who were not prosecuted... What a disastrous balance between Mr Van Overtveldt and the N-VA! What a disastrous assessment, first of all, of Mr. Van Overtveldt, but also from your entire government! This Parliament will be dissolved in the coming weeks. You'll stay to take care of the day-to-day business. Minister, what is your opinion on this situation, of which you have inherited? And above all, what are you going to do? Indeed, you will stay in place. We expect the Minister of Finance to continue to work to improve things in order to support the fight against fraud and not to leave a situation that is too catastrophic for those who succeed you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u29	Mr President, Minister, you are the successor to the Minister for Fake News. I have raised this matter on several occasions. Let me get my facts straight. The tax shift was called budgetary neutrality and was fully financed. He maintained this until his last day as a minister, despite the fact that all the domestic and European authorities opposed it. The top point, of course, is that yesterday we heard N-VA President De Wever say that there would have been no gap in the budget without a reduction of charges. To tell you how Van Overtveldt continued to spread that fake news. The gap in the budget is another point. That too turns out to be a mirage. He's come up with that all the time. And then there's the last fact, something we've suspected for a long time. Mr President of the Commission, I have often raised this issue in committee. The figures on the fight against tax fraud are, in my view, disastrous. For the good listener, I have just listed Minister Van Overtveldt's quotes. In May 2016, he announced that the year was barely five months away that there was a record year in sight in the fight against the major fraud. In January 2017, he said that 2016 was a truly record year in the fight against major tax fraud. In February 2018, he said 2017 was a top year in the fight against fraudsters. Month after month, I asked for figures in the committee responsible. He went to the press with this news, but in Parliament he rarely or never came up with figures. I had to wait for you, Mr De Croo, to get the figures. Last week I got the numbers. The figures in De Morgen are the ones you gave me. They are figures based on a new method of calculation requested by Minister Van Overtveldt himself. This indeed shows that 2014 was the best year of the past five years. Since then, the proceeds of the fight against tax fraud have gone down. For 2018 there is a decline of one third. I call that disastrous, Minister. The questions I want to ask you are as follows. Firstly, we now know that Minister Van Overtveldt has de-informed the public. Did he also deceive the government and yourself with his figures? Secondly, we are in the last few weeks of this legislature. You won't be able to do much more. Perhaps, in preparation for the next parliamentary term, you could ask your administration for a note on the consequences of the removal of banking secrecy, an important measure in the context of the fight against tax fraud, in the fight against tax fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u30	The results of the fight against tax fraud are the subject of a special debate which has been in the press for some time. It is a debate between my predecessor and a number of Members of Parliament. In my view, it is a sham debate for two reasons. First of all, because we compare apples and pears. When referring to my predecessor, we are talking about enrolments during the current year, often comparing them with actual payments. In the area of the fight against fraud, this comparison is completely false. Why is that comparison totally wrong? If the BBI does an inkiering today, it's more likely to be contested than not. So there's a huge time span between the attack, the return and the payment. The level at which an agreement is finally reached or at which there is a ruling is often very different from the figures given at the beginning and to which my predecessor referred. Secondly, the effective receipts of the BBI have changed over time. For example, since 2017, the amounts in the area of regularisation have been paid to the contact point, but no longer to the BBI. This concerns an amount of more than EUR 200 million per year that is no longer in the revenues of the FBI. Enrolment is a good indicator of the ISI's level of work. My predecessor has indeed asked for a new tool to better monitor the level of work and recruitment by the ISI. As I said, there is therefore an important time-buffer that is not taken into account. In addition to a false debate, I think it is a bit of a hypocritical debate. I asked the BBI for a time equation so I could see evolution. Well, when I ask the BBI for a comparison of the "enroulements," the answer that over time the difference is not so great that it varies between EUR 1.4 billion and EUR 1.3 billion today. So it's a minimal difference. But if I ask the BBI for an evolution in the time of effective revenue due to the fight against tax fraud, then the answer is that they cannot give me the figures before 2014 because my predecessor, the Prime Minister in charge, asked them to follow up on the effective payments. I'm falling nudes. Because my predecessor's predecessors never asked for actual payment figures. Mr. Van Overtveldt is the first to insist that they be systematically reported. Let me be clear. Some argue that the government cannot have pursued an effective policy of tax fraud. Well, since the figures in question were never kept systematically before, I would like to ask those Members who are now preaching passion about the fight against tax fraud where they were before 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The budget has always included a heading 'fight against fraud'. This item has been worth EUR 500 million for years. Sometimes that is EUR 400 million and sometimes EUR 600 million. However, as you put it in your answer, the question is what is meant by that post. This is about the BBI's collections, not about the attacks and recovery. So that's much more nuanced than people think. Efforts have been made in recent years, including by the previous government. A great deal of effort has been made under Mr Crombez's secretary of state. A great deal has also been done at international level. A lot of measures were taken and a lot of nets were closed. Even at OECD level, this was done. Mr Van Biesen, Mr Laaouej, we have tried systematically for many years in the Finance Committee, also in connection with the Panama Papers, to take additional measures against tax fraud, which is a major obstacle to policy because tax evasion is not possible. The difficulty is, however, to get a grip on it. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. During the next legislature, when the words 'tax fraud' are used and the BBI involved, account must be taken of the way in which such calculations are made before making judgements which are incorrect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u32	Mr Van Rompuy, from this excessive applause, we conclude that this is your last speech in Parliament, although something says in me that I should not really believe this. Nevertheless, I take this opportunity to thank you on behalf of the entire Chamber for your extensive parliamentary career.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u33	Minister, tax justice is not about increasing the VAT on electricity or increasing the taxes on consumption that severely affect households. That's what you've been doing for five years. Tax justice means ensuring that everyone pays the legally due contribution. That's what tax justice is all about! The problem, minister, is that people don't understand that while they pay their taxes, others are shielding themselves from the tax authorities by hiding their money in tax havens. And the tax authorities, as well as the judiciary, do not have the means to fight these fraudsters effectively. Trust me! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u34	Mr President, first of all I greet President Van Rompuy for his remarkable career and his frankness. That being said, Mr President, I do not always agree with you. In this case, you seem to me to be far too complacent with this government that has intellectually frowned by chipping with the fraud figures. The Court of Auditors has consistently pointed out this in each fiscal year, asking the government to support its projections. In this case, what we read today, coming from the Supreme Council of Finance and the Court of Auditors, confirms this fundamental lack of ambition with regard to fraud, the lack of resources devoted to the fight against fraud, whether human or regulatory. This is very serious because it is very costly for public finances and citizens, whose confidence in the state is undermined. Similarly, all fraudsters act to the detriment of the vast majority of honest taxpayers. I would have hoped for a greater demarcation on your part, Mr. Minister of Finance, in relation to the work of your predecessor. With my group, I hope that finally, in the coming legislature, the fight against fraud and financial crime will become a government priority. In any case, this will remain the responsibility of the environmentalists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u35	Minister, do you know what I find hypocritical? What I find hypocritical is that your predecessor has created a new method, which he said was the only and best way to compare the figures. But, once the numbers are there and they're disappointing, you tell whoever says this is hypocritical. Van Overtveldt's figures indicate EUR 400 million for 2014 and EUR 215 million for his last year. So we compared the figures he thinks are the best. So don't say we're hypocritical about that. There is a second point of hypocrisy. The Special Tax Inspectorate (BBI) has regularly asked Parliament for additional staff and additional powers, as well as for the removal of banking secrecy. Those questions were voted off again and again by the majority parties. These are the real tools to give more weight to the Belgian tax watchdog and fiscal forces and to really tackle tax fraud in Belgium, but unfortunately this government has failed to do so in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u36	Minister, last Monday afternoon I had the pleasure of visiting the transit centre in Steenokkerzeel with some colleagues. In that center for transmigrants, with a capacity of 40 people, there are 35 policemen present daily, seven months since the opening in September by your predecessor, Minister Jambon, day and night. It takes a total capacity of 100 policemen to man the center. In total, 1 800 transmigrants have passed the review. We were told that 55% is habitué, people who have passed the review repeatedly, at least twice and some up to six times. This means that every day there are on average about nine transmigrants staying in the center. That is anything but a full occupation, quite the contrary. This also means that on average we need about 4 to 4.5 police officers per transmigrant staying in the center in Steenokkerzeel. That's not nothing. There are also questions at the police union about the use of so many agents, to eventually receive only a very limited number of transmigrants, the vast majority of which are known as figures after 24 hours of DVZ being ordered to leave the territory, but in practice disappearing into nature, being re-arrested, re-entering the centre, and so on. I don't have to explain that carousel to you anymore. Minister, what about the centre? Let us be honest, the centre was a political gadget created by Minister Jambon to give the impression that something was being done about the problems of transit migrants, whereas in practice it turned out to be a tissue for bleeding. In 2018, as we were told, 12 000 transit migrants were arrested, but in the end only 1 800 have ended up in the centre since September. Most of them are dealt with locally by the local police and never end up in the center. Mr. Secretary, what are we gonna do about that center? What's the point? Or is it just an electoral gadget until the elections on 26 May?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u37	Mr Dewinter, the Administrative Centre for Transmigrants in Steenokkerzeel (ACT), is indeed an initiative of my predecessor, Mr Jambon, and of the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, Mr Francken. The ACT was launched in September, as you could already hear the day before yesterday. It works seven days on seven and it offers the opportunity to ensure the administrative handling of large groups of transmigrants for our country. The ACT is kept open by the federal police with support from the Foreign Office. There are, as you have seen, 10 rooms and 40 beds. Legally speaking, the ACT is a police station where people under police supervision are waiting for a decision from the Foreign Office. The first-line police across the country can use the ACT. By holding the finger on the wrist, the problem of transmigration is closely monitored, although it has not disappeared. Last year, for example, 7 200 transmigrants were repertorated in West Flanders. This rising trend is also continuing in the first three months of this year. Since September, more than 1 800 transmigrants have been admitted to the ACT. 90% is male and 35% claims to be underage. On the basis of the 2018 figures, one in four transmigrants found are collected, i.e. an average of 9 per day. All other transmigrants are handled administratively at local level, by province. The ACT has been operational for 189 days since September 2018. At my request, this was optimized. The daily police capacity deployed was reduced from 45 to 35 full-time equivalents. Your visit was part of a further evaluation of the ACT, which I am still working on. For the sake of clarity, I would like to inform you that the ACT will continue to be of service. Until further notice, no action will be taken on its operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u38	Minister, I take note of your answer. With the elections ahead, I didn't really expect another answer. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the total capacity of 40 beds receives an average of 9 transmigrants a day. On the other hand, there is a police deployment of 35 full-time equivalents, which means that in practice a total of 100 agents is needed to man the centre. That cannot really be described as efficient. The biggest problem, of course, is the frustration of the agents who find that many transit migrants have a subscription to the Administrative Centre for Transmigration. In 2018, 36 000 illegal immigrants were arrested in this country. Of these, 12 000 were designated as transmigrants. Hardly 3 600 of them were actually deported and repatriated. The rest disappeared into nature again. This is a great frustration for the agents involved, in addition to the fact that the ACT is not being used efficiently enough, that the local police are sending too few people over and above all that, who ends up there, is not being repatriated, but disappearing again into nature. That has to be different and certainly much bolder and better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I would like to talk to you about the merger of the Brussels police zones, an item that was discussed yesterday in the Committee on the Interior. I'd like to start with a few quotes. On 6 January, you said in Knack: "A single police zone in Brussels is the only solution, with unity of command." On 9 January an opinion piece by CD&V in Knack said: "We support the words of Pieter De Crem and we add that this merger is not only inevitable, but also urgent and necessary." Mrs Grouwels has also repeatedly advocated the introduction of a police zone. On 2 January, Sven Gatz of Open Vld said in De Standaard: "The Brussels police zones must merge at regional level." And then there was the report that was ordered and that we discussed in the Committee on the Interior, where you took a clear position, where we were on the same wavelength, where I defended you and where we both regretted that a number of people spoke out against the merger story. But yesterday there were some reactions in committee that surprised us. Among other things, the people of Open Vld and CD&V have made a big turn and cited arguments that argue against the report and against the expansion of zones. I didn't know where I had it. When I heard your party, I wondered whether it was the teams of Minister De Crem or the teams of Minister De Rem. How do you see "urgent and necessary"? How do you explain the difference between, on the one hand, your clear statements and, on the other hand, your party's voting behaviour?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u40	Mr President, Mr Degroote, I thought you would ask a question about the plan proposed by the professors and academics with regard to the expansion of the zones and to the police reform, as discussed in the Committee on the Interior, but that is apparently not the case. The bill before the vote yesterday came back to Johan Vande Lanotte's proposal, which was submitted on 12 December 2014. That proposal was rejected by the committee yesterday. The aim of this proposal is to merge the Brussels police zones with a unit of command. I, and so many in this Chamber with me, are convinced that a single Brussels police zone with unity of command is the best option and absolutely necessary. I have to say, however, that a number of things from the previous proposal, by Mr Vande Lanotte, have been overtaken by time and that a mistake à jour is really necessary to make that possible. I would like to stress once again that because of the metropolitanity, the intertwinedness within the Brussels-Capital Region, with its 19 municipalities and 6 police zones, is no longer of this time. We will also take important initiatives in this regard. What surprises me most is that you are a member and a representative of a party that has been in the majority for 4.5 years and has had 4.5 years to submit a proposal. You are now accusing me of not being able to solve what the N-VA has left behind for 4.5 years. At no meeting of the nuclear cabinet, at any Council of Ministers, during any discussion in the Committee on the Interior, the merger of police areas in Brussels was discussed. More than that, Mr Degroote, your government representatives stopped it. That must be made clear today. The great surprise is that you have not taken any initiative and have not retabled your old proposal, which was still pending, at the beginning of this legislature. So you are talking about De Crem and De Rem, but I will tell you, you are dealing with Pieter De Vote, much more than what happened on behalf of the N-VA in the past legislature. To say it with an old Flemish hustle: where were you at the time you could do it? You didn't do it. That will forever haunt you and your party in the political decision-making process.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u41	Mr President, Minister, we know that you like to bounce the ball back, which is no problem at all. It is normally the case that during Question Time MEPs question ministers. Here I have the impression that you are trying to do the opposite. But that doesn't bother me. You know very well, you were in the government yourself. Or were you abroad when they talked about it? A report was ordered by the then Swedish coalition and it was agreed to wait for the results of that report. Those results did not arrive until the end of 2018. I believe that this is an answer to your question rather than an answer to my question. But, Mr President, the fact that you are a little bit of a whim and not a ready answer may be due to the fact that there is a difference between your naughty statements, which we have always welcomed because we were on the same wavelength and the attitude of your party. We're in the Easter period. 2019 years ago there was also a suffering story in the Easter period. At that time there was also a leader who was left by his supporters as it were. There was even a judas. I won't say there are people like that out there now, but anyway, the rooster has crowded three times. I hope, Minister, that further work will be done on this dossier, but I fear that thanks to Open Vld and certainly CD&V it will be about figs after Easter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, since the beginning of this Parliament, I would like to remind you, whether in committee or in plenary, that I believe that the policy you have been pursuing for the past five years is detrimental to patients and our fellow citizens. The proof is given to us today, since an implacable observation is made in the press: our country remains one of the largest users of antibiotics in Europe. There is therefore an overconsumption of antibiotics. Without going into technical details – you are a doctor – these make bacteria more resistant with dramatic consequences for patients, more and more common diseases, longer hospitalizations and more deaths. Today, the KCE calls on you to take action with particular attention to those who are at the base, namely those who prescribe these antibiotics. But that's not what you did, minister. In 2017, you decided to raise the price of antibiotics for patients with a goal, you said: reduce the consumption of antibiotics in this country. The prices were actually multiplied by three for the beneficiaries of the increased intervention – in fact, the most vulnerable people – and multiplied by two for all patients, without any impact on consumption. What were you told at the time? You were told that your measure would not have the desired effect, that it was only a budgetary measure taken on the backs of patients. We were right, and we have proof of that today. I am very open to any form of literature. It was the Christian Mutualities that gave us these indications this morning, which I learned with great interest. Madam Minister, in light of the reports, studies and recommendations presented today, do you make it clear that your policy has failed? Do you confirm that your only concern in this area has been – you will answer me that no, but I will not believe you – to reduce health spending, unfortunately to the detriment of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u43	Madam Minister, Belgium is still in sixth place in Europe with its antibiotic use. However, 13 000 infections and 530 deaths per year are caused by resistance in Belgium. As my colleague said, you doubled the brake money for antibiotics in 2017 and tripled it for patients with increased benefits. The price for the patient rose from 6 euros to 11.5 euros. This happened under the guise of a sensitisation measure. Today it is clear that your approach has not helped. This doesn't surprise us. Both sp.a and the general practitioners warned you about this three years ago. Your measure was either no more or no less than a flat tax increase. You always seem to forget that a doctor prescribes antibiotics. A patient doesn't get antibiotics without a prescription. The doctor's level and the pack size should therefore be taken into account. Madam Minister, I would therefore ask you to reverse your measure. Acknowledge that it didn't help and withdraw this invoice for the patient. You still have time for that. On the other hand, the KCE has clear guidelines for what does work. If next time you get a chance to be Minister of Health again, will you get to work on that? People will be happy to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u44	Minister, aren't you ashamed? With your decision to double or even triple the price of antibiotics, you stole 20 million euros in the pockets of patients and, more importantly, in the pockets of the poorest patients. That's disgusting! It is simply scandalous, Madam Minister, that two years ago you decided to double or even triple the price of antibiotics and that EUR 20 million from patients' pockets goes directly to the State. I think that's just a disgrace. It is all the more scandalous, Madam Minister, that you were warned that this would not work. I'm in possession of a letter you sent to a pharmaceutical company. This is a letter that you sent to a large pharmaceutical company, and in which you clarify two things. The opinion of the INAMI Committee against the price increase, you simply put it in the trash. You didn't listen to that opinion. Secondly – this is important in this text – you clearly say that the consumption of antibiotics will not go down. You make purely budgetary projections as if we were going to continue to consume antibiotics like we used to. Your estimates of the budget were clearly based on the fact that there would be no reduction in antibiotic use. So you knew from the start that this would cost EUR 20 million because there would be no reduction. That is outrageous, Madam Secretary. After all, you know that antibiotics cannot just be given, and they must be prescribed. You knew very well, Madam Minister, that you were going to raise 20 million euros in money by raising those prices! The worst thing, Madam Minister, is that you touched! Minister, I know you're not interested, but I'm talking to you. I'm talking about people who are suffering. You have decided to double for everyone and triple for people who, today, are already in difficult financial conditions. Minister, I ask you to reconsider your decision and put antibiotics in Category B instead of Category C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u45	Mr President, it amuses me a lot to hear my fellow Members speak. Frankly, too much is you real! When I hear Mr. Hedebouw, I really feel like we live on an island. In North Korea, there is indeed no problem of overconsumption of antibiotics, because they are not found. That's another problem! On the other hand, the prominent representative of the socialist party that I love very much and that is next to me, there is the impression that the overconsumption of antibiotics dates back to the time when the minister became Minister of Health. While in 2010 and 2012, we were already talking about overconsumption of antibiotics. So it's not new. Perhaps the previous Minister of Health could have dealt with it as well. There is no doubt that too many antibiotics are being used. In Belgium, this has long been seen as the miracle remedy. After painkillers, it is the most widely used medicine in Europe, and Belgium is, unfortunately, one of the five leading countries in antibiotic use. However, the more antibiotics are consumed, the greater the risk that bacteria will no longer be affected and that antibiotics will no longer help when they are really needed. As a result, one third of golden staphylococcal disorders are now impossible to treat with antibiotics. We must therefore work together, all parties involved, on this issue, and in particular the doctors, because they are the ones who have the greatest knowledge and who can advise best. On the other hand, if they leave a medical practice without a prescription, patients sometimes feel that they have not been sufficiently taken into account. This is why doctors sometimes prescribe too quickly; Christian Mutuality has just denounced it. The measures proposed in the recent KCE report and the 21 recommendations contained therein must therefore be considered. Minister, I therefore ask that the proposed measures be evaluated. Are there quantifiable results for the policy implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Frédéric, it was I who asked the KCE to make recommendations to me, in order to further reduce the use of antibiotics. I am very pleased with the broad consultation they have organised and with their very concrete recommendations. Mr. Hedebouw, over the past three/four years, antibiotic use has declined, while in the past, it has increased by 1 to 3 per cent each year. Today, the daily dose is at the 1997 level. Now I come to the conclusions on the impact of the repayment. We must be careful with that interpretation. We see a significant reduction in antibiotic consumption. The upward trend has certainly broken. There is already a kink in the curve from 2014, while this 2015 measure only started on 1 April 2017. The main responsibility for the use of antibiotics, of course, lies with professional practice. Of course, it insists on its autonomy and therapeutic freedom. Despite all our guidelines for correct use and the annual federal government campaigns, the use of antibiotics in our country remains too high and therefore indeed the risk of resistance to antibiotics. That is why, at the beginning of this legislature, I asked for a European audit on the use of antibiotics in our country, not only in humans, but also in the environment and in animals, because all this is linked. That is why I have asked the KCE for these concrete initiatives. Mrs Jiroflée, you had a question about the specific recommendations. We have already instructed the Public Health Office to coordinate them and to draw up a national action plan. That will come in the next few weeks or months. This action plan aims at all measures that can lead to less antimicrobial resistance, both in the environment, in animals and in humans. This plan will be developed with the departments of agriculture and the environment. These are objective, quantitative and concrete measures, along the lines of the actions I have undertaken together with the Minister for Agriculture for the veterinary sector. The plan shall contain quantitative objectives linked to the use of operations. From Health we have already taken measures in hospitals for the antibiotic stewardship. There too, we will have to apply the same measures in the first place. Depending on the class of antibiotic used, more requirements should be imposed on the motivation and availability of the medicinal product. For example, I have already done this with the quinolones, which have been moved to Chapter 4 because they have only two very specific indications and have been prescribed too much. The WHO has pointed this out to us. That measure pays off. The quinolones are indeed less prescribed. There is also a need for a change of mind, both in patients and in prescribers, especially dentists, but also in general practitioners and dermatologists. A study of Socialist Mutuality, which you will not be unknown, indicated a difference of 30% in the prescribing behaviour of young general practitioners. Young general practitioners have been raised more with that. I also ask that the figures on antibiotic resistance in hospitals be published more quickly and linked to data on antibiotic use. Prevention is also important. The focus should remain sharp there to prevent endemic outbreaks. As the KCE points out, the excessive use of antibiotics is actually a social problem. So we will all have to work together on this. As Mr Flahaux said, we must work together to implement all of these KCE recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her answer which does not satisfy me but which has the merit of being cordial, complete and objective. On the other hand, I did not appreciate Mr Flahaux's implication and allusions. I know he has to defend the Open Vld. I have seen that, on other matters in the last few days, the liberal alliance has been more in difficulty. Mr. Flahaux, if I were you, I'd be more discreet. If I were in your place, I would be extremely uncomfortable to have participated, for five years, in a two billion euro holding-up of savings that you have imposed on health care in our country. Two billion savings including 40 million on antibiotics, nasal sprays and other medicines of this kind! If I were you, I'd be more discreet because that's the reality. Whether we like it or not, that's what you've been doing for five years on health care in this government! What situation did you cause? [[Brouhahaha]] It's hard, I know. It's not nice to hear. Are we at the end of the freewheel legislature? No! We still have things to say and I'll tell them to the end. Even when I disagree with you, I fight for you to express it. I hear you being heard. You are not happy with this situation and I understand it because today, at the end of the month, the weakest of us, the most fragile, the pensioners, the people who are experiencing difficulties must choose between caring for themselves and feeding themselves. It's inconceivable in 2019! We're at the end of the legislature. I hope that we can quickly change that. It's bad for our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u48	Mr President, Minister, there is now an action plan. I'm glad there's an action plan. However, Madam Minister, you are proving, now that the action plan is in place, that you took the so-called budgetary measure three years ago far too early. You are proving what I am saying, in particular that the price increases for the patient were made purely from a budgetary point of view. You did this purely and simply because you keep letting the pharmaceutical go in the red, without taking into account the fact that a large number of patients really need antibiotics and need them chronically. They're screwed today. Madam Secretary, that is a scandal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u49	Mr President, Minister, first of all, it is clear that your policy on the consumption of antibiotics has not been successful. The graphs on the subject are very clear. You claim not to. I'll just get the graph from the CM. You can clearly see that there is a small variation in consumption. What's jumped in is what the patients have to pay. That's outrageous. Madam Secretary, today you state that the graph published by Christian Mutuality is wrong. We will therefore have to continue the debate after this meeting. I'm saying the numbers are right. They will be forwarded by CM. It is clear that the figures of Christian Mutuality are correct. Madam Secretary, that's bad. You're just questioning objective figures. You just knew that raising the price would not affect consumption and would only raise money for the state's cash register. Madam Secretary, that is a disgrace. Secondly, you know the problem is information. There are non-profit organisations, such as Farmaka, which you have simply closed and no longer grant. For Farmaka, who is in a very difficult situation, you closed the budgets because she sent independent medical information to the world of doctors. That's just a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u50	Mr Hedebouw, they have not been closed. You don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u51	Madam Minister, they have really given up a great deal of money because of the abolition of subsidies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u52	Mr President, I would tend to say, in response to my honourable colleague Vice-President of Parliament, that I have been more objective, that Belgium is at the top of the ranking of accessibility to health care. I think we can be proud of that. In addition, beyond small political games, we must all stand behind the minister's plan, with the 21 recommendations of the KCE. Finally, today half of the antibiotics are found in animal feed and aquaculture. We must therefore also act in these areas. Madam Minister, thank you. I enjoyed working with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u53	Mr. Chair, Minister, the SNCB memorandum was issued a few days ago. First and foremost, it calls for certainties; what the Michel government has not been able to offer over the past five years. SNCB is asking for a ten-year investment plan, clarity on endowments and thus on its ten-year finance. This demand is not new, as rail investments require a minimum ten-year view. This had prompted the previous government to make a multi-year plan up to 2025. Today, your government has withdrawn all certainty by replacing this plan with a three-year plan up to 2020. It took 41 months to give birth to a three-year IPP, which does not provide long-term vision. Anyway, it's a PPI of myopia. Minister, we want to offer SNCB a ten-year investment plan. It's time to count. Are the government parties ready to repair what they have broken by responding to this request? SNCB is also calling for investments today. Infrabel will do it tomorrow. Indeed, the study carried out by the Lausanne Polytechnic on the state of the railway network has been completed. His conclusion is that more money will be needed in the next legislature. Even with your virtuous billion, the Michel government has withdrawn two billion from the legislature. Minister, we absolutely want to increase investment in rail. It's time to count. Are the government parties also prepared to repair what they have broken by responding to this request? SNCB is asking for a long-term view of rail. You have tried to convince the Regions to follow an inter-federal vision of Mobility. You are now hiding behind the refusal of Flanders and Brussels. This refusal is to hide your inability to develop a federal vision for rail. The MR was unable to leverage its majority partners to realize the vision that SNCB and Infrabel are asking for. It's time to count, Minister. SNCB requests that it be assigned directly, and for 10 years, the public railway service mission. She's in the middle of a reorganization, but she needs more time. Removing SNCB's public service mission would be a mess of the same order as we experienced with the separation of SNCB and Infrabel. The population will suffer. Minister, it's time to count. Do we want that certainty for ten years? Are you able at the government level, and without the N-VA, to respond to this request? What is your position and what is the position of the MR?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u54	Mr President, Minister, SNCB has prepared a memorandum in which it will pass on its demands and expectations to politics. It is an interesting document in which there are many good things to do. However, there is also a remarkable question in it. In fact, it is being asked to postpone the opening-up of the market to other players by ten years. That is, to say the least, a very strange question when we look at the results that SNCB can present. The figure is 4 % more passengers, 5 % more train kilometres, a better financial plan, more investment and 4 % more productivity. If we look at these figures, we can only conclude that SNCB is actually preparing for the changeover to market opening today. The railway company knows very well what the passengers expect and it also knows very well what the government expects of it. There are many incentives on the market today to ensure that SNCB is now preparing itself. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must keep pressure high and ensure that these reforms do not stop. We must also be confident that SNCB will succeed. The government and SNCB must have the ambition to achieve the modal shift that we are all looking forward to. We must therefore ensure that we can offer a performance, quality and affordable public transport service to our citizens. Minister, I have a specific question for you. What is your response to SNCB's request to postpone the opening-up of the market to private players by ten years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u55	Mr President, in negotiating the fourth railway package, Belgium has defended three important aspects: the maintenance of the principle of the direct award of public service contracts, the transitional period and the guarantee of optimum protection of workers in the case of the transfer of public service contracts to new contractors. The Belgian Government has never opposed opening up to competition, provided that it remains part of a range of instruments available to Member States to improve the quality of rail supply in Europe. Belgium has always been in favour of a sensible opening-up of the market for passenger transport. Through its memorandum, SNCB expresses its wish to be assigned the task of public service by means of a direct allocation, for a period of ten years, over the entire Belgian network. In exchange, it promises to evolve into a modern, digital, operationally and financially efficient company, serving all customers. It promises to increase punctuality, improve train availability and quality, and develop suburban networks. The government has always been in line with this logic: linking this direct concession to an improvement in performance. But he hoped that SNCB would first demonstrate its ability to modernize, improve its productivity and provide service to meet the expectations of its travellers. It is in return for these improvements in the long term that the public service mission could be assigned directly to it for ten years, in the spirit of European legislation in this field. Indeed, the European Commission will check in 2022 whether SNCB is in a position to continue its public service mission for ten years, not the other way around. It is not the certainty of attribution that will determine whether it should improve. Improvement by 2022 will be verified by the European Commission. She will tell if SNCB can have the prosecution protocol. It was this government that pleaded with the Commission, not for automatic liberalisation, but to attach criteria to the Commission prior to entrusting the task for the following period. I have stated on several occasions that this is the prerequisite for the Commission. I recall that SNCB received 13.7 billion in five years. I heard Mr. Hedebouw talking about $20 million a year for antibiotics. But 13.7 billion in five years represents 11.2 million per working day. The State shall pay this sum directly to SNCB. At the initiative of the government, the supply of trains has been increased twice: in December 2016 and again in December 2017, with 5.1% more trains on the day, evenings and weekends, including the S offer in large cities, but also in rural areas. Business productivity has increased. Minimum service is a reality. This resulted in an increase in the number of travellers by 3.5% in 2017 and 3.6% in 2018. Growth has continued since the beginning of 2019. These increases have been unprecedented for more than ten years. They lead to improved financial performance. It should also be noted that overall, since December 2018, punctuality has improved. Since the last few months, punctuality figures have been above 90%. These figures had not been achieved since 2015. These encouraging results over the past two years prompt us to remain optimistic. Efforts must continue by 2023. If this improvement continues – a sine qua non for direct allocation – the quality of the service offered to travellers must remain the sole priority of the public undertaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u56	Minister, I expected a more proactive, committed, long-term, modal shift-oriented response from you. Frankly, your answer is not up to my expectations. If you want a service from SNCB that is satisfactory for our citizens, you have to give time and devote resources to it. We want an increase in the supply of public transport to meet the growing need for mobility, such as the start of a modal shift that will reduce the share of cars and, therefore, the number of traffic jams. We want the articulation of different modes of public and private transport in order to allow intermodality. This implies increasingly integrated schedules with other operators. I didn't hear you about that. We want a real rail service on secondary lines, with one train per hour per direction on each of them. For this to be possible financially, it is important to keep the main lines and the secondary lines within the public service itself. We want – and it is up to SNCB to tackle it, because I doubt that liberalisation will allow it – that this company offers perfect information to passengers, since it also deals with stations and passenger information. As such, liberalization will be problematic. We also want a strong regulator. I didn't hear you either. In any case, Minister, what we are refusing is a regionalisation hidden through rail liberalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The government has to take care of two things. Firstly, it must set out a clear vision of mobility and public transport and, secondly, create a clear legal and financial framework within which these things can be realised. It is therefore incomprehensible that SNCB had to work with a management contract from 2008 in recent years. I believe that it is an important priority for the next government to draw up an appropriate management contract, with priorities and also with the necessary money. Today there is competition not only between SNCB and other players, but also between rail and other modes of transport such as bus and car. SNCB is already in the process of dealing with this competition today. Europe must make its decision by 2020. I don't think a delay is an option. We must make the transition for travellers and we must improve the quality of service. With a stand still, we don't serve the travellers. With a stand still we also do no service to the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u58	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the past my group has often been here for the defence of farmers, specifically than for the fruit sector. My colleague Hilde Vautmans, today Member of the European Parliament and previously a Member of the Chamber, has included it here on several occasions for the sector. We are doing this again today, because the fruit sector is in deep crisis. I do not have to tell you this, Minister, because you had discussions with your Flemish and Walloon colleagues this morning, and they supported this. The hard fruit sector, the apples and pears sector, is a very important agricultural sector for Limburg and the Hageland, which has a tough time. This is not only due to the embargo imposed on Russia a number of years ago, but also because of recent environmental disasters such as the freezing cold and drought, which is absolutely disastrous for the sector in particular. The state of the sector is no longer sustainable and the alarm bell is being pulled. Support measures are needed. This question also came from Flanders yesterday, the same question that has been asked several times by my colleague. There is also a demand for European crisis support. Minister, are you prepared to recognise the fruit sector as a sector in crisis? Are you prepared to take the necessary support measures? Will you also argue for this at European level? I understand that resources have been made available at European level, but for promotion. However, there is a difference between promoting the fruit sector and providing crisis support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u59	Thank you for your important question, Mrs Lijnen. I know the situation in the fruit sector. I am very sensitive to it, especially for apple and pear cultivation. I've met representatives of the sector. I went to Sint-Truiden with your colleague, Mrs Hilde Vautmans, for a meeting with the fruit growers. The causes of the difficulties, as you know, are the Russian embargo, but also the extreme weather conditions. For example, there was the frost in spring 2017 and the drought in summer 2018. I know that the fruit growers are still selling their apples and pears below the price. That's dramatic. This morning I chaired a meeting of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Agricultural Policy. Together with the Flemish Minister and a representative of the Walloon Minister for Agriculture, we have analysed the situation of producers of apples and pears. The most important opportunity to support the sector is the recognition of it as a sector in crisis. Such recognition would allow to simplify the démarches in order to obtain, as appropriate, a reduction, exemption or a postponement of the payment of social contributions. I will soon meet the representatives of the apple and pear producers again. This morning, at a meeting with Commissioner Hogan, I also asked the Commission to pay particular attention to the market in apples and pears. I would also remind you of the steps I recently took with the BFSA with the Vietnamese, Brazilian and Mexican authorities to help the sector. I personally contributed to the Vietnam case file. These steps have led to agreements that will now allow Belgian pears to be exported to those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One cannot compare apples with pears, but in these they are in the same boat: a sector that is not healthy. You acknowledge this and that is a good thing. You acknowledge this as a person. The next step is to recognise this as a crisis. I understand that you will take measures and take steps. That's important. I would ask you to do this as soon as possible. I would also like to thank you for your interventions in the various countries, such as Vietnam. I believe that a difference can be made in this respect. Mr President, I understand that this is the last oral question from this legislature. I think it is symbolically important to underline in that last question how economically important fruit production is for our province and our country. Minister, we are counting on your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u61	This was indeed the very last question of this legislature, at least in life and well-being.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u62	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, David Clarinval, Vincent Van Quickenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u63	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thoron. It shall refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u64	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3577/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3577/4) The bill has 40 articles. The bill has 40 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u65	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u66	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Calomne et Mme Özen, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u67	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3349/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3349/6) The title was amended by the Committee in draft law introducing a Civil Code and inserting book 8.... The title has been amended by the commission into a draft law establishing a Civil Code and inserting a book 8 "The Evidence" in it. The draft law has 75 articles. The bill has 75 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u68	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u69	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: - 3560: Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Gautier Calomne, Luk Van Biesen, Carina Van Cauter - 677: Christian Brotcorne, Benoît Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u71	The proposal that CD&V has submitted and hopefully can be adopted tonight, perhaps tonight, aims to make justice more accessible and to make legal aid insurance more accessible. This bill has been prepared by Minister Geens and his cabinet and administration as draft law. In the end, it was tabled as a legislative proposal in Parliament because the government has gone into current cases. The proposal responds to a great need in many families who, unfortunately, if the need arises, sue in court. CD&V is not in favour of litigation, but sometimes families are forced by, for example, a lack of housing. This could involve a large financial cost. This proposal therefore responds to a major need to make it more accessible and feasible for many families to implement a rights procedure. The legislative proposal is a cooperation between the insurance sector on the one hand and the legal profession on the other and, of course, the public authorities on the other. The government provides for a tax reduction to cover the cost of a family procedure. The aim of the legislative proposal is to introduce a tax reduction for legal aid insurance premiums that meet a number of conditions relating to covered risks, minimum coverage, guarantees and waiting periods. This replaces what is already envisaged as an advantage, namely the exemption from the insurance premium. The amount of the premium for which the tax reduction is granted shall be limited to EUR 310, indexed, per year and the rate of the reduction shall be 40%. The legislative proposal lays down minimum conditions to which the insurance contract must meet legal aid in order to qualify for the tax advantage and the tax reduction. The Finance Committee held extensive discussions on this subject. Several colleagues have agreed to cooperate on this bill. The bill was passed in committee. I hope for the cooperation and collegiality of my fellow Members in order to be able to approve this bill in plenary. It will certainly meet a need of many righteous people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law which is now before our vote aims to make legal protection insurance more accessible. The purpose of this insurance is to defend the interests of the subscriber in judicial, administrative or other proceedings. This proposal is part of the implementation of a point in the government agreement in which it was stated that in order to meet the needs of the majority of the population, the government will promote "legal protection" insurance for people who do not have access to second-line legal aid. Insurance is now made more attractive by tax. The proposed tax advantage takes the form of a tax reduction of approximately EUR 120 rather than an exemption from the annual tax. In practice, therefore, the policyholder will pay a premium that he or she can deduct from his or her tax return. The "legal protection" insurance is thus made more visible. Greater coverage is also foreseen. The guarantee ceiling is set at a minimum of EUR 13,000 per civil dispute and EUR 13,500 per criminal dispute, with the possibility of reducing it to EUR 3 375 per insured person and per loss in the event of a divorce dispute and EUR 6 750 in the case of construction disputes. As for the waiting period, the principle is that there are none, except in certain matters where the general rule is one year of maximum waiting. For divorce and construction disputes, which are the most costly disputes, the time limit may not exceed five years. If the insured changes an insurer, the waiting period already expired shall be taken into account. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, improving access to justice is crucial. As we know today, the costs associated with the judicial resolution of a dispute, which may prove to be high, are sometimes and often a hindrance to this approach. This measure is therefore in the right direction, particularly for middle classes who do not have access to legal aid. The MR Group will therefore vote enthusiastically for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2014 federal government agreement included the promotion of legal aid insurance. Now, the draft law before us by the government parties should make legal aid insurance more accessible. Already during the discussions on the reform of second-line legal assistance, some years ago, the proposed measure was envisaged in response to the criticism that those who have just too much resources to qualify for second-line legal assistance experience difficulties in accessing justice. The text provides for a tax reduction for a legal aid policy which meets a number of standard conditions. These include somewhat higher coverage ceilings than the existing standard tax-enhancing product, as well as coverage for divorce proceedings and building disputes. The annual premium for an insurance product that meets the conditions will soon vary between 250 and 500 euros. Tax relief is limited to a maximum of 40% with a maximum of 124 euros. Moreover, an insured person is not covered unlimitedly, since the coverage ceilings cover a non-complex file at first instance, while the insured person will more often have to pay for a possible appeal procedure on his own account. Moreover, if a lawyer does not sign a contract, the share of the salary above the baremas will also be fully invoiced to the insured person. Especially in more complex cases or matters, where specialised lawyers are appointed, this will significantly increase the insured's own invoice. So now there is a standard policy for discussion, which, because of its broad and classical scope, will actually be quite expensive. Our group is in favour of the idea of a tax incentive for those who experience difficulties in access to justice. In our view, however, the standard policy as it has been developed will be closed mainly by those who have a little more financial margin and thus actually have less problems with access to justice. So we believe that the standard policy will pass its purpose. Did the EUR 33 million budgeted for the intended tax incentive not be used in any other way to promote access to justice, especially for the middle class of low-income citizens? A slightly more modular insurance product, in which the insured person himself can choose to exclude some branches of law with which he is less likely to come into contact or to be insured against lower ceilings, could perhaps have brought more relief. I ask her another question, which the Minister has not yet answered, but Mr Smaers has. The Minister is indeed not present. In any case, isn't the proposed insurance a first step towards compulsory legal aid insurance, which will also involve compulsory agreement for lawyers? After all, Minister Geens argued in favour of this idea when discussing the draft law on the reform of registry rights. I'm rounding up. In our view, the outcome of the proposed approach is a missed opportunity. We will therefore abstain in the vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u74	It was indeed the agreement that the Minister concerned, even if it is a legislative proposal, should be present. I've already had the Minister summoned. If anyone wishes, I'll suspend the meeting. No one's asking? [[No.]] Then we will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u75	Mr President, I have the impression that the Minister has been doing minimum service since his law on minimum services was adopted. He wasn't there either, by the way, when we discussed the bill on games of chance earlier. We have not made a problem of this either. Minister De Crem has already sat down and has listened carefully, I have seen. Mr President, we will not support the text before us. I refer to the discussion in committee and the advice given by the Justice Committee to the Finance Committee. The resources are scarce. A euro can only be spent once. Then you have to make choices. It is well known that there is a problem with access to justice. This problem has only been exacerbated in recent years by decisions taken by the various governments. VAT has been introduced on fees for lawyers and bailiffs. The Registry duties have been increased. The justice fee has been increased and other costs have been added. So access is a problem. This problem arises mainly from those who have just fallen out of the boat, for those who earn just too much to be eligible for second-line legal assistance. Then there are two options. Either they work with the existing private insurance system, which is encouraged by tax. In other words, the government will increase the size of the group that really needs support and can make use of the second-line legal assistance. Today, around 8% of the population are eligible for legal assistance. In the Netherlands, that is 37%. A single lawyer is entitled to a pro-Deo lawyer if he earns less than 993 euros. That's less than the poverty line. If we have to make an effort somewhere and we have 1 euro, what are we going to do about it? As far as we are concerned, we are placing the euro on those who most need it, who have the hardest access to justice, and those who deserve the least. If we put the categories of income side by side, they are even in the first decile of incomes. Whoever just falls out of the boat has no means of paying insurance and will not. Those who would do it will not see much effect of tax deductibility. The measure proposed here will not, therefore, improve access to justice for those who have the most difficulty, but is a tax encore for the upper middle class. The measure will benefit the upper middle class and not those most in need of it. The government and the majority set the priorities wrong. The priorities need to be set correctly, and this means increasing the income limits to qualify for second-line assistance, as in the Netherlands, where 37% of people are eligible. That is the direction we must take. The proposed measure, which is actually a gift for the upper middle class, will not solve the problem. That is why we cannot support the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u76	Mr President, I will not squander my pleasure by saying that I am happy to see a text or idea that I have been defending in this House for several years now in a form that has at least the merit of being there. This text, which I had tabled in the form of a bill, dates back several years and was already justified at the time. I think it is even more justified today when it comes to access to justice, so much so that access has been denied (and the minister will not contradict me on this point). Registry fees, VAT on fees, various ancillary costs have increased the costs of proceedings, thus excluding from the courts a number of people who no longer dare to venture into them, as they fear that the financial result will be difficult to bear in the event of failure of their procedure. The idea of tax deductibility of premiums paid for legal protection insurance is a partial response to the problem of access to justice. We are well aware that this type of measure will not solve the problem of the poorest, but the poorest of the litigants now benefit from second-line legal aid, which provides them with access to justice. We are all aware that the threshold for access to legal aid must be raised. During this election period, I participated in a few debates on the visions of justice shared by the different parties. There is agreement that this threshold of legal aid must be raised, regardless of the minister (whether you or Mr. Van Hecke) who sometimes shows up as a candidate. However, simply raising the threshold for access to justice will not solve the problem. There is an entire section of the population which is not wealthy, but which is not, however, disadvantaged to the point of being able to benefit from legal aid. Therefore, an answer had to be found for this category of litigants. That is the answer you are proposing. It is not perfect because it has a cost to the state budget, since deductibility will translate into millions of euros that will be lost to the state budget. Other formulas such as duty reduction could have been imagined. Nevertheless, this reduction would have been linear and would have benefited everyone, and perhaps not directly to that particular class, the middle class, which we wish to help through this measure, by guaranteeing it easier access to justice. I said it in committee, I repeat it and I will repeat it again, it is legislation in which I believe, but it is only a first step. It is a door that is closed and I do not understand that we can say that we are not going to go through this door by saying that tomorrow it will be up to the legislator to broaden the terms of this insurance policy. I know that some in this House are dreaming of making legal aid and the right to resort to the courts a branch of social security. We know that this wish is a pious wish that will not come to pass so quickly. In the meantime, other arrangements and other formulas must be found and the one proposed to us today is one. It is not the panacea, but we must accept it and we will vote with enthusiasm, minister, because it is a good start.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u77	Minister, thank you for joining us. Ladies and gentlemen, my DeFI party has always supported the idea of encouraging, through a tax reduction, the purchase of "legal protection" insurance which is affordable for citizens in terms of premium amounts, which respect the free choice of lawyer and which covers all the costs inherent in a procedure while favouring alternative methods of dispute resolution. Undoubtedly, the tax incentive envisaged to allow for a wider subscription of "legal protection" insurance policies will, hopefully, increase the number of people in Belgium who subscribe to this type of insurance. I would point out that in Belgium, only about 10% of those of age who have been covered by this "legal protection" insurance measure have subscribed. In Germany and other countries the rates are much higher: for example, in Germany the rate is 45%. It is true that this measure partially corrects the errors made by the government when it imposed a significant increase in registry fees that contributed to a higher cost of access to justice, not to mention the imposition of 21% VAT on lawyers' fees. Even if this measure were imposed on us by the European Union, we could perhaps have discussed the rate elsewhere. But we know that the government considered that it was this rate that had to be retained. However, this does not mean that we are fully satisfied with the text before us, even if we will vote on it because it is a step in the right direction and it is time to do so. However, we regret, for example, that disputes of less than or equal value are excluded from "legal protection" insurance contracts. Many people are in dispute for small amounts that they renounce while holding the debt because they realize that the cost of access to justice is prohibitive. Bad-faith debtors, knowing that this recourse to justice is prohibitive, never fulfil their obligation. Experiencedly, I know a lot of cases where people say very clearly: "I will never pay you the amount of a debt of a few hundred euros because I know you will not go to court, given the cost." This is deeply unequal, especially for creditors who rely on these few hundred euros to be able to continue to have a correct standard of living, a fortiori when they have multiple debtors in default of payment for sums that appear derisory but which, accumulated, are substantial. There was therefore no reason, I believe, to exclude low-value disputes. We also regret the unusually long waiting periods: three years for custody disputes resulting from divorce. That's amazing. I do not know whether the bar associations which support the proposal have validated these deadlines, which I believe are not justified. We also question the difference in the minimum guarantee ceiling depending on the type of dispute. We do not really find the motivation in the developments of the bill: 13 000 euros for a project in civil matters. Why 13,500 in criminal matters? This amount is reduced to €3,375 in divorce cases, to €6,750 in construction and labour law. How have these ceilings been determined? On the basis of what criteria? We have not found any evidence of this, either in the debates in committee or in the developments in the proposal. It will therefore be a long way to go in order to improve the text before us and to evaluate it in due course. I would also like to thank those who have committed themselves to making every two years an assessment of the application of this law with the bars and the insurance sector, as soon as it is voted in a few hours. Regardless of the shortcomings in the text, as I said, a step forward in this matter is better than the status quo. That is why we will agree to vote on this bill!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u78	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their constructive remarks. I would also like to thank the various parties of the old opposition, if I may call them that, for their cooperation. I believe that we are making progress with this proposal on access to justice. We have talked enough about this in committee. I share that deep conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3560/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3560/6) The bill has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u81	Art. 7 • 9 years old Stefaan Van Hecke cs (3560/7) Annex V.Part • 7 years Stefaan Van Hecke cs (3560/7) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 8 years Stefaan Van Hecke cs (3560/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u82	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u83	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 7, 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u84	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 6, 8, 10 and 12 to 26.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u85	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u86	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u87	Mr President, I refer to my written report. If I may, I shall make a brief speech on behalf of my group. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the Fuel Oil Tank Fund has been our concern for a long time. For more than 16 years, this dossier has been a problem that needs to be resolved. This dossier has been blocked for a very long time, even to the extent that a number of regions considered setting up their own fund in the absence of a federal fund. Minister Peeters was Minister of the Environment in the Flemish Government when this fund came up for the first time. It was already clear at that time that there was a certain need for this. We know that contaminated soil can lead to dramas. The cost of this can be particularly high. We see enormous problems when someone wants to sell such land or when someone inherits such land. It is therefore absolutely right that we now have an agreement after all these years. Many questions have already been asked about this issue in this half-round. Both Mr Janssen and I have paid a great deal of attention to this issue in this and in the previous legislature. I believe that closing this dossier by starting with this new fund is of particular importance. The closure of such a dossier, with such a long duration, is absolutely a positive point and we are taking a step forward in the area of reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u88	Mr President, it is true that this dossier has taken many years. I would therefore like to thank Mr Wollants for his positive words, which I shall cherish, for other moments as well. Many people will be relieved, as Mr Wollants has said, because they can now have the restoration carried out with the support of the Fuel Oil Tank Fund. That is a very good thing. I thank all those who will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u89	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u90	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3585/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3585/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u91	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u92	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Paul-Olivier Delannois, Karine Lalieux, Jean-Marc Delizée, Fabienne Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, rapporteur, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3468/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3468/5) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u96	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Frank Wilrycx, Leen Dierick, Nele Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u97	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Karine Lalieux, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3568/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3568/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u100	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Friart, Nele Lijnen, Leen Dierick, Frank Wilrycx.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Michel de Lamotte, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the key issue is getting closer. At last one can say. After all, the old, deprecated nuclear power stations have had their best days and today only excel in unreliability. Over the past few years, they've been more quiet than they've produced energy. There were cracks in the reactor vessels; there was concrete rot; there were fires in the non-nuclear areas; there was a leak in the water supply and there was sabotage. You name it. The number of incidents couldn't be counted on ten fingers. Each time, the power stations in question were shut down for months. What did the government do? It extended the lifespan of the oldest nuclear power plants by 10 years. It has given Engie Electrabel a substantial discount on the nuclear interest rate and has refused to hold the operators liable indefinitely in the event of damage in the event of a possible nuclear incident. De facto, Engie Electrabel directed our country's energy policy. The oversupply of nuclear energy that continued to exist in this way blocked the necessary investments in alternative forms of energy. Our energy policy ended up in a vicious circle, losing valuable time, while increasing uncertainty about the core exit. In fact, by spouting five years of uncertainty about the core exit, the investment climate was simply killed. Today, we hear all the former majority parties declare that there are insufficient alternatives to guarantee security of supply. Colleagues, that's a self-selling prophecy. Things aren't going to happen again. If we want to start the closure of nuclear power stations in three years' time, according to Elijah 3.6 gigawatt, new capacity will be needed to replace the nuclear power stations. The present framework law on the capacity compensation mechanism should allow new capacity, which is subsidised new gas plants to be built. According to the sp.a., it doesn't have to be. For sp.a it is important that we stick to the planned core exit in 2025. I repeat that nuclear power stations are outdated, unsafe and unreliable. They also put a brake on investment in forward-looking renewable energy production. We want to achieve the core exit without increasing the electricity bill for families. Today's energy poverty peaks. More than one in five Belgian families live in energy poverty. We absolutely must avoid increasing their numbers even more. A lifetime extension of existing gas plants makes it possible to close the gas plants without building new, expensive and subsidised gas plants that may push up the energy bill of consumers. Unlike new gas plants, existing plants should not be kept in operation for 20 years in order to be profitable. For the few hours a year in which we need that additional capacity; we can use alternatives, use demand management with large consumers and make concrete agreements with our neighbouring countries. In the meantime, investments in future-oriented, clean technologies must be fully prepared. The proposal for a capacity compensation mechanism before us today is a framework law. This means a very broad outline of the contours of the final capacity auction, but all concrete parameters still need to be determined. Just those parameters will determine the final cost. The sp.a won't give another government a carte blanche. There is a need for a public debate on the further development of the mechanism. For example, we want to guarantee that the government will not unnecessarily build new gas plants and will not oversubsidise them. This can be achieved by differentiation in the aid received by different technologies. Not every technology has the same cost and potential in terms of revenue. Price caps could ensure that, regardless of the level of the marginal price, not every technology receives the same guaranteed price. In addition, one has to look at how windfall benefits can be avoided when the costs of a power station suddenly fall sharply in case of falling gas prices. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments in committee to ensure that all royal acts resulting from this law are ratified by Parliament by law. This framework law does not exclude nuclear power plant operators from participating in the capacity auction. That is stated in the explanatory memorandum, but not in the legal text itself. Colleagues, for the sake of clarity, the extension of the life of the two or three youngest plants, as requested by the N-VA, can certainly not be the case for sp.a. Engie Electrabel has been given enough gifts in recent years. Finally, the sp.a wants the government to include in the National Energy and Climate Plan, which should be finalized by 31 December of this year, that gas plants should switch to green gas so that it becomes profitable. In this way we also guarantee that our gas infrastructure becomes future-proof. I repeat our main criticism of this bill. The financing of the capacity fee mechanism should not end up on the energy bill. However, there are currently insufficient guarantees for this. Everything will have to be regulated by means of implementing decisions, including the parameters that will determine the cost. However, Parliament does not have any control over this. Moreover, it would be of little common sense if we were once again clinging to fossil technology, which is damaging the climate. However, only in this way can we guarantee our energy supply in the short term, keep it affordable and keep it climate-neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u103	Mr President, the end of the legislature is approaching and there are items on our agenda which have a long way to go. This bill may be one of the champions in that area. A clear policy framework for flexible energy capacity has been sought for a long time in and outside this Parliament. The former energy minister, Secretary of State Wathelet, was already looking for this. Then there was the slope of the public tender. That was at the end of last legislature. Since then, there has been a long search for what to do, how to create clarity, how to create certainty. The long advance process, which I am not underlining, is one of the reasons why our group wants to give the green light to this law today. After all, this first step must be taken. If the uncertainty on this subject continues, we are still organising the scarcity and uncertainty. That can't be the intention. Our group will support this, but it is not a blank cheque. It is a framework law that will have to be followed very much. There are still a lot of underlying decisions to be made. I suspect it is still going on for a lot of political and parliamentary debate, even when it comes to legislation that should not be adopted in this hemisphere. Our group will support this because it is necessary in the context of the energy transition. This would perhaps be a gift to those who advocate the extension of our oldest nuclear power stations. That is why we are giving the green light. Colleagues, of course there must be great concern and vigilance. The cost of all this must not get out of hand, should be kept to a minimum, and should focus on organising, enabling the transition. The honourable Member has just said that it cannot be the intention to maintain too much fossil energy for too long. Supporting flexible capacity in a smart way can, however, just accompany or even push through the breakthrough of renewable energy. Hence our support, but certainly with great vigilance and follow-up over the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a complex and technical matter. This text is in fact a framework law prepared by a working group set up by the government, in which several experts were associated, including representatives of Elia, CREG and DG Energy. This text is a necessary framework for several reasons. This is first of all the first step, since the 2003 law on the release of nuclear power, towards an energy transition, towards a future energy mix without nuclear power plants. A new wave of investments in the electricity sector is indeed necessary. By 2025, the energy transition, in particular to ensure a secure, affordable, sustainable supply of electricity, with more and more renewable energy, must be realized. Moreover, CRM is a crucial element of the Energy Pact, which is part of Belgium's energy policy and also of its three Regions. There is no alternative: we need to find at least 6 GW of new capacity and this will not be possible without CRM. In addition, the capacity compensation mechanism will replace the current system of the strategic reserve and will be an essential element for the security of supply of our country in the coming years. Colleagues, without the adoption of this CRM, the risk of supply problems will be too high at the time of nuclear release. In the absence of measures, the abandonment of the nuclear power plant between 2022 and 2025 will result in very frequent peaks in the markets, not to mention the risk of discharge every winter. This will obviously be very problematic for our economy, our businesses, our households. It is therefore essential that this mechanism be able to attract sufficient investment in the short term because, today, we do not yet have sufficient capacity. In the absence of reform, it will not be possible to attract all these investments. Colleagues, at the request of Minister Marghem, DG Energy commissioned a study to identify and design this ideal capacity mechanism for our country. The mechanism, identified as the best option for Belgium, is that of reliability options. This mechanism has already been approved by the European Commission in Ireland and Italy. This proposal for a law is therefore based on the way in which capacity compensation mechanisms are applied in these states, insofar as they are appropriate to our Belgian context. It is extremely important that this proposal for a framework law can be adopted in order to begin the preparation of implementing orders. Elia, DG Energy and CREG need the legal basis to develop CRM. These orders will then be submitted to the European Commission, which, after validation, will notify them so that the CRM enters into force. In concrete terms, approval by the European Commission is expected to be achieved by the summer of 2020. The first auction will be held in October 2021 and the first capacity will be available in 2025. Colleagues, in conclusion, my group supports the bill that will provide the next government with an adequate legal framework. It is essential that this mechanism ensure sufficient capacity and investment to ensure our country's supply. It must also be flexible enough to offer opportunities for new technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this issue has been before us throughout the legislature. My colleagues and I have been constantly questioning the minister on this issue. Mr. Friart's bill is nothing more than a government bill for which Mrs. Marghem did not even consider it useful to join us to defend him. This capacity compensation mechanism is an important part of our future energy mix. It is our duty to support this text, in front of a majority in shreds. Recall that the project, which was to be tabled on our benches by July 20, 2018 - the last date announced by the Prime Minister - arrives here in extremis. If, today, we have to support this mechanism, it is above all to gain the certainty that none of our citizens will lack electricity in the coming winters. It is these concerns that will guide us when we vote, despite the doubts that continue to hover over this text. The framework law defines several concepts and concepts, but the number of royal decrees that will have to be applied to achieve this is high. Moreover, when we see the timetable that is necessary for this implementation, I think we can cross our fingers. Among the remaining uncertainties remains the question of the participation of foreign capabilities in the mechanism, the modalities presented in the panel are more of the draft than of the completed project. We will therefore have to remain very vigilant. We do not close our nuclear power plants to subsidize those of our French neighbours, let us be very clear! Since 2014, we have been wasting time Or, as my colleague pointed out, under the previous legislature, Secretary of State Wathelet had launched a call for tenders, which was cancelled by the minister as soon as she took office - probably because of a lack of voluntarism and negotiating capacity in the face of the European Commission. Another major unknown is the issue of the financing of the mechanism. The project was to arrive at the same time as the energy standard, which was supposed to partially address this issue, by 20 July 2018. We're still waiting for him... In this regard, I want to be clear. If, of course, we have some demands for the necessary preservation of the competitiveness of our enterprises and industries, we will remain very vigilant that this never happens to the detriment of households and SMEs which already bear a very heavy share of national solidarity. It is not for us to resort once again to a demand which is solely concerned with the impact of the private consumer. This is essential to provide this energy mix if we are to continue to emerge from nuclear power in the years 2022–25. It is essential for us to achieve this energy mix in the years to come in order to guarantee this supply and energy security for our citizens as well as for our businesses, for the benefit of all but at an acceptable cost to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014 we added an extensive Energy section to the coalition agreement. There was a whole package of measures and some of them came back to life after the four competent ministers concluded an agreement on the long-awaited energy pact. This was subsequently converted by the government, provided that a large number of conditions were met, into the federal energy strategy. The objectives of this were very clear. The aim was to organise security of supply, to respect the Paris Agreement, to guarantee affordable energy for companies, including electricity-intensive services and families, and to maintain the highest possible level of safety for our installations. In the federal energy strategy, a lot of things were put on a very strict timing to make sure that all of this worked out. If we go over it, it will become clear to you why there are some problems with it. First of all, there was a preliminary draft law on the energy standard. It was intended that our families and businesses would not pay more in this way than in the neighbouring countries. It was also intended that a proposal on the subject would be ready on 20 July 2018. A preliminary draft was also requested for the reform of the offshore degressivity system by 31 May 2018. It was also necessary to set up a federal energy committee to monitor the impact of the policy. A preliminary draft had to be drawn up for this too. Finally, we come to the subject before us, in particular a capacity mechanism that also had to be ready by 31 May 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, you know as well as I do that today only one proposal finally reached this Chamber. The proposal on the capacity mechanism is the only thing we can discuss here. After all, we have heard nothing more about the energy standard. I can already predict that a number of parties represented in this Chamber will include an energy standard in their electoral programme. It is, of course, a great pity that Madam Minister, because of her undoubtedly busy schedule, did not find time to do something with it effectively. Nor have we heard anything about the degressivity of the offshore payment. You know that this system is endorsed by the European Commission and must be reformed as a matter of urgency. That had to be done by 1 January of this year at the latest. You also know that if we do not do so, there is a risk that our companies will get into even more trouble. It was last week, I think, that another investigation was put first that was ordered by Febeliec, to clarify the difference with the countries around us. Our companies pay 13 % to 20% more for their power in Flanders than in the countries around us. In Wallonia, this even rises from 18% to 34%. If tomorrow Europe considers that the application of the current system should stop, the costs for these companies will increase exponentially. This will ensure that the jobs created there today will be lost to a large extent. So I cannot imagine any reason why Mrs Marghem and the MR could not come up with a solution and why this could not come before Parliament. The legal uncertainty resulting from this is absolutely 100% the responsibility of the Minister. If steps are taken by Europe and the system is cancelled, Mrs Marghem will have to write it all on her account. Around the federal energy committee, it's completely windless. We once heard about this in a policy paper and then we did not see a letter on it in Parliament. Those files were agreed, but they were clearly not implemented. In the meantime, I know the Minister's reaction to this. She will answer me that this has not happened, because the government has now entered into ongoing cases. She should then explain to me how that could be the reason for a number of documents that had to be on the table between 31 May and 20 June. Maybe she'll be able to explain everything as it suits her. What is ahead today is the capacity mechanism. This is a mechanism that had to be examined in cooperation with our neighbouring countries, because, of course, it serves to ensure that we meet the conditions of the federal energy strategy, namely affordability, sustainability and security of supply. Let it go wrong just there, ladies and gentlemen. The government calculated that it still does so today with a cost of that mechanism of 345 million euros per year, for 15 years. What is now apparent from the CREG figures? It costs a lot more, namely 600 to 940 million euros per year. Count that out over the period of aid and then it will be 9 to 13 or 14 billion euros in the following years. The Minister has denied these figures every time, over and over again. She first claimed that the figures were not there. She then said that they still had to be calculated. After that, it sounded like she couldn't just throw those numbers in some micro. A little later it was about calculating a few people who had planned a coup against the minister. It would all be part of a conspiracy. You can't think of it that crazy or it was an excuse from the minister. So, what's going on? In the hearing we held on this bill, the CREG Management Committee confirmed that the EUR 9 to 14 billion were indeed the figures on which they came out. That's the stakes, colleagues. Secondly, the funding of the whole system has been taken strategically out of the legislative proposal. In the beginning, proposals for its organisation had been worked out, but they have disappeared completely. The answer to the question of who should pay what is to be paid is an integral part of the election. Today, the Minister sets up a system which she claims will solve the problem, but the answer to the questions of who is to pay what and who is to blame for it is for another government. Après nous... you know. Thirdly, it was indeed stressed that it should be a system tailored to our neighbouring countries. We cannot expect gas plants to be built and financed at the expense of our families and businesses and then power stations to disappear abroad, because the grid balances are being realised at the expense of our citizens and businesses. PWC, which did the study work for this story, warned us very clearly in March last year. There had to be an arrangement, but none of that came into the house. In the committee it appeared that the only consultation on this matter with the neighbouring countries was an informal consultation, an exchange of what everyone was doing, learning from each other, but in no way a coordination. We asked for reports from this consultation, but the answer was still to be found there. There have not even been reports of this. This is not what can be expected from such a system. Fourthly, a final element that is absolutely important is the question of necessity. The federal regulator is proposing to adopt an amendment whereby the capacity mechanism will not enter into force until a royal decision is taken. That's a sign on the wall, isn't it? The regulator indicates that we must have such a mechanism when it is necessary, but on the basis of the current figures, the calculation of Elijah, it appears that it is not necessary at all today. However, reading the author's texts and explanatory notes shows that it is about building a whole pack of gas plants as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not what we need today. This is likely to be a particularly serious burden on our families and businesses. There are a lot of things that are not clear. We want this approved here today without knowing what it will cost our families and businesses. The CREG calculations amount to EUR 14 billion. I do not think we should be involved in such a story, and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u107	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is my task to speak on behalf of my group on this matter. I shall begin with the following words: that of time lost! Consideration of this bill should of course have taken place much earlier. But we have been forced to see the inability of this government and the majority to make clear choices in favour of leaving nuclear power. This has made us almost waste the time of an entire legislature. There were differences of opinion, differences of position between the N-VA and the other parties of the majority, which slowed down all decisions in favour of the energy transition. If we add to this some chaotic methods, we understand that it was necessary to wait until the last moment to finally receive a concrete proposal to accompany the exit from nuclear power. We regret that it took four and a half years for this bill to come to the table of Parliament to finally be discussed here in the very last minute. We have known for years that the market is not ready to invest in new production capacity. This is a problem that we face everywhere in Europe. It was this well-known fact that led the previous government to propose a system of support through a call for tenders for the construction of new power plants. Finally, it was a mechanism not so different than the one proposed today. However, it had been cancelled by this government as soon as it was sworn in. Ultimately, this original sin, if I can call it that, will have cost us almost five years. We are now the back to the wall. In order to meet the nuclear exit schedule, it is necessary to adopt this law as soon as possible. In view of the delays in the construction of a new power plant, it will be almost impossible to get out of nuclear power, if this text is not adopted under this Parliament, which I hope we will do earlier. That is where the fundamental political question we are today lies. Do we want, yes or no, to get out of nuclear power? For the Socialist Group, the answer is clear, since we have been supporting the phasing out of nuclear power since 2003, for at least three major reasons. First, the risk of a serious nuclear accident can never be completely ruled out. Human or technical failure will always be possible, not to mention other sources of problems. The Japanese with some of the most advanced technological knowledge were unable to prevent the Fukushima disaster in 2011. And when a nuclear accident occurs, the consequences are very quickly apocalyptic. Secondly, nuclear energy is polluting, even if nuclear power plants emit less CO2 than coal or gas plants. Nuclear power produces radioactive waste, some of which remains very dangerous for several hundred or thousands of years. This waste is stored somewhere, kept away from the population for centuries. This represents both financial and environmental debt for future generations. While everyone is talking about sustainable development, who can defend a system that produces waste on the backs of future generations for thousands of years? Thirdly, the seven Belgian reactors were commissioned between 1975 and 1985. Fatally, the associated safety standards have become older. We can make a parallel with cars: between a car of the 1970s and a car of today, it is obvious that there are differences due to technological changes. Yesterday's car will never reach the safety standards of today's cars. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to be against nuclear power, but to build an alternative. To ensure access to energy for citizens and businesses, there is no miracle solution. There is a need to develop an energy policy based on three pillars. The first pillar is reducing our energy consumption. To consume less is to spend less. To consume less is to pollute less, and it is to reduce our dependence on energy abroad. It is also the most effective way to combat global warming. The second pillar of our energy policy must be the flexibility of supply and demand. This requires the construction of new flexible production capacities, as well as demand management, interconnections and energy storage. The third pillar is the essential development of renewable energies. For years now, our nuclear power plants have been out of order. Every winter the question of security of supply arises. At times, there were more power plants inoperative than existing power plants. We must break with this model of great dependence on nuclear energy to move towards a 100% renewable energy model by 2050. It is, at least, the climate challenge before us. The establishment of a capacity compensation mechanism will speed up this work while preserving our security of supply. That is why our group supports this bill. This is not blind support; in the coming months we will be paying attention to the impact of the compensation mechanism on consumers' purchasing power. Electricity bills have already increased far too much under this legislature. The causes are as follows. VAT has increased from 6% to 21%, intercommunal taxation and ISOC coverage have been introduced, and nuclear power plants have experienced repeated breakdowns. It will be up to the next government and Parliament to decide how to fund the capacity compensation mechanism, but our position is that it is not acceptable for only residential clients to be involved. Industries also benefit from the measures necessary to guarantee security of supply. It is therefore fair that they also finance them. We will be paying attention to this in the coming weeks and months. Having said that, Minister, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, it was in 2003 that Belgium voted to leave nuclear power. To ensure this exit, nuclear energy must obviously be replaced by alternative energy sources. Since 2003, therefore, very little has been done in terms of investments in renewable energy, although technically, these alternatives have existed for a long time. What were the brakes? They're three orders. First, some political forces have slowed things down. We are thinking in particular of the N-VA which has really sabotaged a real energy policy, because it was defending, and still defending, nuclear energy. Then there are ENGIE Electrabel's many manoeuvres, which for years have relied on the extension of nuclear power plants to increase its profits. Finally, there is dogma, the belief that the market is the solution to all the challenges we face, and in particular the energy transition. Today, sixteen years later, we do have a problem. We have a problem and we still do not make the necessary investments, i.e. public investments in renewable energy. No, the way here is to subsidize the private sector. The state does not take over energy policy. It does not invest in renewable energy, but it subsidizes the profits of companies. The government is limited to market solutions: either nuclear – which was extended during this term – or subsidies for gas-fired power plants, because the necessary investments in renewable energy have not been made. The PTB will vote against this bill. In the same vein, we shall abstain from the following text, which neither dares to leave the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u109	Mr. Chair, I thank the speakers for their contributions to the discussion of a large-scale text for the future and of great complexity as well. The latter is due to the fact that it is necessary to ensure that each existing or future production unit, whether in Belgian territory or in a foreign territory, is taken into account in a completely egalitarian manner. On the other hand, with regard to the choice made in our electricity mix to replace the outgoing nuclear capacity with the congruous gas plant capacity (that is, that which is necessary in view, in the meantime, of the increase in renewables in our country), I think that we have a very interesting text here because the gas is flexible. Its flexibility and "pilotable" character allow it to adhere in an extremely harmonious way to the renewable capacity that is growing in our country. By using project offerers through this framework text, we give the signal that in Belgium we will, by a flexible means, support their profitability. Even today, gas is more expensive than electricity. In order to generate electricity from gas-fired power stations, the turnover that allows the company to expect profitability by selling the electricity thus generated must be sustained at certain times, when electricity on the markets is at the lowest. This is a very important signal which, we hope, will attract investors who will be able, on this basis, to develop projects linked to and in consultation with the authority and to install their infrastructure in our territory. This will generate significant investments and jobs and will enable us, by 2021, to be ready in 2025, to have the gas-fired power plant capacity needed to get out of our electricity mix from nuclear power generation. It's just time and not too late. The complexity of the text will have allowed you to understand why time was required to prepare it. This is a first in Belgium. It's a first in some other countries, too. We worked with the European Commission (EC) precisely to be as fast as possible by observing what was applicable in other countries and choosing the systems that best suited Belgium. The EC has validated our framework text and already, for several months now, the institutions with which we usually work - be it the CREG, Elia and, in the accompanying committee, the consultant who carried out the study that we had commissioned in order to be able to choose as adequately as possible the system best suited to Belgium - are working on implementing orders which, once the text has been voted on, will have to be coordinated with the stakeholders so that these implementing orders are as adapted as possible to the Belgian situation, the Belgian market situation and the circumstances of our minimum need (also calculated) for new gas plants in our territory. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the support you will give to this text, knowing that, in doing so, you are clearly showing your willingness to get out of the electricity generated by nuclear power in this country in accordance with the law which provides for this exit in 2025.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3584/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3584/5) The bill has 14 articles. The bill has 14 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u112	Art. 6 • 37 years old Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) • 38 • Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) • 42... Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) • 39 years old Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) • 40 years old Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) Annex V.Part • 41... Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 34 • Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) • 35.... Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 12/1(n) • 36 • Karin Temmerman cs (3584/6) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u113	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 6, 8 and 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u114	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5, 7, 9 to 11, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u115	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u116	Colleagues, with regard to the legislative proposal No. 3581 by Mr Wilrycx on the organisation of the electricity market, on our agenda item 22, I note that the committee is meeting. That meeting started 15 minutes ago, and I suggest that, when that committee meeting is over, we get back to that point. The Bill No. Mr Janssen cs' 3202 on the Washington Convention on Endangered Species of Fauna and Flora has been returned to committee. We will deal with that in the week after Easter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u117	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gilles Vanden Burre, Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Marcel Cheron, Anne Dedry, Georges Gilkinet, Véronique Waterschoot, Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u118	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (3298/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3298/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its resolution on the request to autonomous public undertakings and Belfius to draw up a greenhouse gas emission balance and achieve neutral carbon emissions." The title has been amended by the committee as a motion for a resolution calling on the autonomous state-owned companies and Belfius to take stock of their greenhouse gas emissions and to be carbon neutral." The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur is Ms Goffinet. She refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will quickly recall the purpose of this motion for a resolution. It is an important step in our view. Environmentalists have entered into many alliances within society to combat climate change, a scourge and major challenge of the 21st century. I will not recall all the pressures from the various sectors in this regard. This resolution addresses a particular angle since it is a matter of considering a partnership with companies to reduce their CO2 emissions. As you know, we have signed the Paris agreements; we have ambitious targets to follow in terms of reducing carbon emissions from greenhouse gases. That is the purpose of this proposal. Here, we ask that our autonomous public enterprises, but also Belfius, not only publish their carbon balance – which is not yet mandatory, even if some already do – and put in place an action plan to approach 0 emissions, towards carbon neutrality. Of course, we have based ourselves on what already exists. For example, Proximus is already labeled 0 carbon. It has an action plan to reduce its CO2 emissions. On the remaining footprints, it sets up a compensation mechanism to achieve carbon neutrality through the financing of projects outside the company that reduce the carbon impact. This is what we ask other public companies, such as bpost, Belfius, SNCB, Infrabel, Belgocontrol keys. For us, it is an important first step that our public companies can be not only innovative, but above all exemplary in the fight against climate change. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Infrastructure who supported this text. This proves that we can move forward together through a strong resolution towards our public enterprises. I'm glad. I have no doubt that we will soon be able to support this ambitious text aimed at carbon neutrality for all our public companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u121	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Isabelle Galant, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Egbert Lachaert, Griet Smaers. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u123	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during this Parliament, the government has set itself a course to improve the purchasing power of pensioners and gradually harmonize the various pension schemes. Through various initiatives, it has done so, in particular through important reforms that have made it possible both to sustain our solidarity system but also to guarantee more equity between wage-earners and self-employed people. Improving purchasing power and harmonizing pension plans are the two constituent acts of the bill we are dealing with. As is already the case for employed-public servants couples, we give the right to independent-public servants couples to also claim a pension at the household rate if it is more advantageous than the combined single pensions. Thus, thanks to the action of the Minister of the Independents, Denis Ducrame, we enable us not only to improve the social rights of the self-employed but also to substantially increase the purchasing power of pensioners. This injustice is now being corrected for more than 30,000 self-employed persons married to a retired civil servant. Colleagues, for these various reasons, it seems to us essential to support this initiative of Minister Ducrame and we invite you to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, which has received the unanimous vote in committee, reflects what we wanted to do for the independents throughout this Parliament, that is to say, to redress a number of social injustices suffered by the independents in relation to the other categories. This proposal is in line with this, since the aim is to make it possible to grant a household rate pension for couples made up of an independent and an official. On the other hand, it was not possible in other situations. This will help a number of self-employed and pensioners. This will significantly increase the purchasing power of these households.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3513/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3513/1) The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u128	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Kattrin Jadin, Benoît Friart, Hendrik Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u129	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2683/10) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2683/10) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u130	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this extremely important debate takes place in the context of the modernization of the Armed Forces reserve framework. To this end, hearings were held. They have led us to draw up certain provisions contained in this motion for a resolution. Since we had found that the army was suffering from a recruitment deficit, it seemed to us that the flame of engagement had to be revived. In any event, this issue will have to be a priority for the next government and therefore for the next Minister of Defence. I would like to stress the exemplary commitment of these men and women to the National Reserve. This choice honours them, as they engage in the service of their country in a context of threats. It is obviously not an easy task to engage in such circumstances. Reservists have a personal and professional life that is already full. They spend a great deal of time and energy in defending the nation. We can only congratulate ourselves on that. However, there are a few questions. What is our view of the reserve? In what context are these men and women committed to our country? Is the reserve framework still relevant to our security needs? Could it be a bridge to a professional military career? Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, these issues are directly or indirectly reflected in our motion for a resolution. Reservists' policy must clearly change so that our professional army can fulfil all its commitments and meet the needs of its citizens. This is the feeling that emerged from the hearings and debates. The result was a fairly consensual vote. Of course, the reserve, based on the principle of volunteerism, will have to be a military component fully integrated into the active army and lived as such. Between fiction and reality, the difference is enormous. We must also have, through the Reservists, a Defence in the service of our country, and there must be only one Defence, either through the professional military or the reservists. Mr President, I believe that the ambition of this resolution is above all to provide a series of good ideas to be implemented in the next parliamentary term. I talked about the need for this to be a voluntary process. There is a need to maintain a military dimension, but also a civilian dimension, to the function of the Reservist, with a logic of subordination between active service members and reservists. We have taken on a fundamental element that we have seen in our discussions, targeting a series of skilled trades that are currently lacking in Defence. The reservation as such makes sense only if it has the priority task of participating in the security of the national territory and of assisting the citizens. The central objective will therefore remain to involve citizens in National Defence, which has been essential since the suspension of military service. The reflections on the reserve do not call into question the transition to a professional army. Behind this central objective, and this will be my conclusion, we will have to be careful to maintain this strong link between the army and the nation, as we saw during the OVG mission. The reservist, whose skills would be expanded, will also be a committed citizen, with civic values, strengthening unity and national integration. I believe that the motion for a resolution, which will gather consensus in plenary, as was the case in committee, is also a strong signal to the reservists today: confidence in their commitment, and the fact that this subject will be an important concern of the next government agreement. I hope everyone will be attentive to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u131	Mr President, thank you. Colleagues, this text on the modernization of the army reserve is the first of a series of texts that follow on the agenda. My group supports all these texts because they follow a series of hearings. They therefore correspond to a demand from the social partners and to real needs which could be developed and analysed in committee. With regard to resolution 2683, I simply wanted to add two comments to those made by my colleague. First of all, the principle of the reserve allows for the involvement, in Defence, of people leading a career, both in the private and in the public sector. These reservists work, in particular, in the cyber-defence sector, where our intelligence services are associated with reservists from the private sector. It therefore seems to me important that, when implementing the resolution, we take the utmost care to ensure that, when reservists are recruited, incompatibilities are clearly established and that the problems of conflicts of interest and security clearances are dealt with very scrupulously. Cyberdefense is a sensitive issue like many others. Secondly, I would like to stress here the importance of the agreement of all colleagues, except those of the N-VA, on the amendment which I have been able to table concerning the origin of terrorist threats. In my view, this is a symbolic but strong parliamentary act: that of targeting all forms of threats and extremism that could lead to terrorist acts. For if we want to fight terrorism today, we must remove the eyes that would be concerned only with one type of threat: those related to jihadism. Unfortunately, the causes of terrorist violence also nest on the side of any supremacist. Just think of Christchurch's shooting perpetrated by a New Zealander fed the theses of the far right. In our country, the State Security has repeatedly expressed its concern and concern about extreme right-wing or extremist-inspired groups calling for the division of the population and, more or less explicitly, for acts of violence on our territory. We all remember the report that revealed Schild & Vrienden, whose leader is also the leader of a party that is a member of this Parliament for the next election. With this amendment supported by all colleagues, except those of the N-VA, we are giving ourselves the means to adapt our counter-terrorism strategies to the whole spectrum of threats and we are also, I hope, helping to limit the stigmatization of a single group of citizens sometimes linked, in the wounded imagination of our compatriots, to the jihadists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u133	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Hendrik Bogaert, Dirk Van Mechelen, Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Waterschoot, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u135	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3507/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3507/3) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Act of 28 February 2007 establishing the status of the military and candidate military in the active framework of the Armed Forces as regards the external mobility of the military." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 28 February 2007 laying down the status of military personnel and military candidates in the armed forces, with regard to the external mobility of military personnel". The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u137	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput, Hendrik Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Miller, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u139	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3605/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3605/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u140	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u141	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput, Hendrik Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u142	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Fernandez Fernandez, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u143	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3606/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3606/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u144	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u145	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput, Hendrik Bogaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u146	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Top and Miller, rapporteurs, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u147	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3607/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3607/3) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u148	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u149	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Hendrik Bogaert, Veli Yüksel, Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u150	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I give the floor to Mr Thiéry for an oral report on the committee's work this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u151	Mr President, I would like to thank all the colleagues who were present in the Defence Committee this afternoon for discussing one or the other amendment to be added or implemented. All the amendments were adopted unanimously. One was specifically about Brexit, while the others wanted to create an equal level of insurance for serving soldiers in Belgium and abroad. On the basis of this additional information, since the vote on these amendments was unanimous, I propose that we proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u152	Mr President, unless you are mistaken, a rapporteur has been appointed in the person of Mrs Bellens, who is not in the Chamber. It was agreed that an oral report would be made. That would be a good tone for a bill that becomes a tote. Even though it was adopted unanimously, it deserves some attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u153	If I understand correctly, you propose to wait for Mrs. Bellens. You propose to wait for Mrs. Bellens. When Mrs Bellens arrives, we will discuss the proposal again. We'll see. We'll do it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u154	If that is the case, I would like to speak now, but it seems to me important that the oral report be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u155	We need the report first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u156	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daphné Dumery, Jef Van den Bergh, Annick Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u157	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Sandrine De Crom, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u158	Mr President, I would just like to mention that I called Mrs Bellens. She is on the Business Committee, so she is prevented because of committee work. I just wanted to mention that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u159	We will discuss the two proposals which have been returned to committee. Now we have arrived at the general discussion of the bill No. 3470 on the school streets. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u160	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3470/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3470/5) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u161	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u162	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Daphné Dumery, Annick Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u163	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Lijnen and Mr Burton, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u164	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2444/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2444/7) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u165	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u166	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel, Nele Lijnen, Bert Wollants, Jef Van den Bergh, Sandrine De Crom, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u167	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u168	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u169	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u170	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3525/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3525/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u171	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u172	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nele Lijnen, Sandrine De Crom, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Jef Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u173	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Peteghem and Mrs Dumery, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u174	Mr President, I think it is appropriate to say something about this. The work that is ahead of us and can now go to the final vote is very extensive. The legislative proposal is actually the final part of a 12-year process. Twelve years ago, the Royal Commission was set up to review, update and codify Belgian maritime private and public law. That committee, led by Professor Van Hooydonck, has done a lot of work. It has done the preparatory work, after which the government and then some Members of Parliament have taken over the work to complete it now in Parliament. Many experts, professors and administrations have examined the entire maritime law to improve it and guide it into the 21st century. We are therefore very pleased that we can complete the reform today and adopt the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u175	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u176	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3536/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3536-5) The bill has 141 articles. The bill has 141 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u177	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u178	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Emmanuel Burton, Jef Van den Bergh, Nele Lijnen, Sandrine De Crom, Daphné Dumery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Goffinet, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to effectively prosecute traffic offences, it is necessary for the Belgian authorities to have access to registration data from other countries, mainly from neighbouring countries. At present, such an exchange of data is provided for by the Law of 2010 establishing the Carrefour Bank for Vehicles via two channels. On the one hand, Directive 2015/413 allows the exchange of data between the Member States of the European Union for certain offences listed. This exchange concerns only police services, customs authorities, judicial services and State Security. On the other hand, two bilateral treaties were concluded by Belgium with its French and Dutch neighbours to exchange data on road traffic offences. However, these two channels do not allow the regional authorities in our country to use foreign registration data in compliance with low-emission zones and the kilometric tax. In order to meet the request of the Regions, the first objective of this draft law is therefore to provide for the possibility of exchanging registration data from other countries, outside the framework of European regulations and the above-mentioned bilateral or even multilateral treaties. In addition, this amendment is necessary in order to implement the Protocol amending the Treaty on a European information system for vehicles and driving licences, i.e. EUCARIS. The objective of the Protocol, signed in Luxembourg in 2017, is, in particular, to broaden the possibilities for the exchange of registration data, provided that there is a clear legal basis at international, European and of course national levels to this end, which will be the case when Article 2 of this draft law takes effect. This proposal also pursues a second objective through its Article 3, that is to say to extend access to the directory of the IVD to judicial officers in the framework of the solvency investigations, of their duty of general information. The judicial officers already have online access to certain data in the directory of the IVD, but this authorization is no longer adapted to the current legal framework. Indeed, since 2014, this new statute of judicial officers strengthens their legal missions, since they are now required to carry out solvency investigations and to ensure a general duty of information to the debtor and his claimant regarding any risk of insolvency. To do this, the bailiffs must therefore be able to assess at best the actual financial situation of the debtor, in order of course to judge whether or not to proceed with implementing measures. In this context, information about the presence of a vehicle within the debtor's movable assets is, of course, an essential element for the creditor. It is therefore logical that the duly mandated judicial officer should be able to obtain wider access to the directory of the IVD in order to enable him, on the one hand, to establish a faster and more precise assessment of the debtor's solvency and, on the other hand, to take the appropriate measures. Finally, the aim of this proposal is to extend the access of judicial officers to the directory of the IVD in order to facilitate the exercise of its legal tasks. If the operative part explicitly mentions articles 519, § 2, and 519, § 3, of the Judicial Code, another legal task of the judicial officer must also be concerned, namely that of making authentic findings. In fact, it may happen that, when establishing a PV of observation, the judicial officer is required to consult the directory of the DIV in order to carry out his mission. This would, for example, be the case if a judicial officer were to draw up a record of a vehicle obstructing a private road as, for example, a servitude of passage in order to bring to justice the owner of the vehicle. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for listening and hope that you will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u181	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u182	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3604/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3604/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u183	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u184	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jef Van den Bergh, Daphné Dumery, Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u185	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Anne-Catherine Goffinet, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, research shows that we are cycling more and more. Today, the VAB published figures on the use of bicycles in commuting, which is now close to 20%. The advance of the electric bike has a lot to do with that. However, other research shows that the safety of cyclists does not improve enough. We must be concerned about that. The reduction in the number of injuries is less pronounced for cyclists and pedestrians than for other road users. The number of accidents involving injuries in general is falling but that of cyclists and pedestrians is falling less. That's something we should be worried about. Several times a year are faced with blind spot accidents, often with very serious consequences for the cyclist. Again and again the demand for conflict-free intersections resounds. These can, with the proposed principle of all cyclists at the same time, prevent green or square green accidents for both pedestrians and cyclists. Motorised traffic is stopped in all directions at that time. This way cyclists and vehicles cannot come into conflict with each other. In Flanders several pilot projects already run with this principle but so far it has not been registered in our Road Code. We want to solve that with this bill. The bill already has a long history because the Minister has always stated that he would register the principle in the new Road Code that is being worked on. Unfortunately, at the end of this legislature we have to note that the extensive work on the Road Code has not yet been completed. For example, there is still a procedure in progress at the Council of State. That is why we want to ensure that this is included in the Road Code before the end of the legislative term. We have added some elements to this by means of amendments to improve the safety of cyclists in general. I refer, for example, to the measures to make tricycles and quadricycles of less than one metre wide equal to bicycles from now on. As a result, bicycles for people with disabilities or three or four-wheeled bicycles are now also allowed in pedestrian zones, school streets and against the direction of travel in one-way streets. Another amendment brings the maximum speed of motorized propulsion units into line with European rules. It is limited to 25 km per hour. Finally, children will be allowed to cycle on the footpath until the age of 10 years instead of up to 9 years as was the case today. Vehicles outside the built-up area will now have to keep a distance of one and a half metres sideways from cyclists instead of a meter as has been the case so far. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative proposal and the amendments that have been added, we have drawn up a whole package of measures to improve the safety of cyclists. This was necessary in order to promote their safety as much as that of the other road users. We hope that this way we can further stimulate cycling, both in commuting and for everyday use.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u187	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u188	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2833/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2833/6) The bill has 12 articles. The bill has 12 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u189	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u190	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: David Geerts, Karin Temmerman, Gwenaëlle Grovonius
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u191	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3596/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3596/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its resolution on the implementation of an investigation of the role of SNCB in the transport of Jews and deportation of Jews during the Second World War." The title has been amended by the Commission in a motion for a resolution on the conduct of an investigation into the role of SNCB in railway convoys and the deportation of Jews during the Second World War". The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Lijnen and Mr Flahaux, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u192	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for supporting this motion for a resolution. After so many years, it is necessary to study scientifically the role of SNCB in the deportation of Jews and gypsies in our country. We know that SNCB had a lot of resistance fighters in its midst, but also a lot of collaborators. Mr President, I hope that the next government and Parliament will implement the resolution and examine the role of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u193	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr David Geerts who introduced this text. By its vote, Parliament will entrust this task to the government. It will be up to him to ensure that a follow-up is organized. I hope that the principle that will be followed will be the same as that which had been acquired for the excellent work done by CEGESOMA historians on responsibilities with regard to the Shoah. Given this parliamentary tradition, whether it is with the Senate or not, I hope that this will be done in an optimal manner so that, as with the Shoah, we can, in some time, have a text. This one will not have to repeat the story, but will be able to shed light on the responsibilities of each other. Remember the debate we had on the Shoah, about the responsibility of the Belgian State and the civil servants. Mr Miller, the purpose of this work of remembrance which this House has been talking about from time to time is also to trace responsibilities, look to the future and prevent such horrors from happening again. It is the very meaning of history, which is not a pastist science; rather, it is intended for future generations. Parliament's vote, through Mr Geerts' text, of which I stress the interest, as I also stress Mr Geerts' personal contribution, is an important element for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u194	Mr President, I would like to thank those Members who have already spoken. I would also like to express my support for the motion for a resolution before us. We have contributed in committee by tabling two amendments, which have, moreover, been adopted unanimously, in order to achieve broad acceptance. I believe that we can make a bit of history in this way. I would also like to pay tribute to my colleague David Geerts, unfortunately in his absence. The first time I took the oath on the same day as him. David will finish his career here now, but it is good that he can do so with the resolution that is before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the initiative that has been taken. SNCB has already been asked to commission a team to come out of possible archives. I would suggest to the next government that this be entrusted to a special commission, perhaps to the Senate, which would provide a democratic representation of all groups, intellectuals and historians and of all the associations that have expressed their interest in working with the documents available to them in a working group. I will give a note to my future colleague to explain to him how I felt that things should proceed on the basis of the almost unanimous vote of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u196	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u197	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Dirk Van der Maelen, Jacques Chabot, Ahmed Laaouej. The Committee on Defence proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (3042/3) The Committee on National Defence proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (3042/3) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Mr Alain Top, rapporteur, did not ask to speak. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u198	Mr President, we have tabled this text following the long and passionate debates that have surrounded the F-16-gate. Our text consists of two requests, namely:- to work towards the development of a general and appropriate mechanism for the protection of whistleblowers within the Ministry of Defence, as in the case of federal public services, by establishing one or more persons of trust and integrity by linguistic role who act as a point of contact within the single defence structure; - submit to Parliament an assessment of the effectiveness and implementation, in the various federal departments, of the Act of 15 September 2013 relating to the reporting of a suspected infringement of integrity within a federal administrative authority by a member of its staff. We wanted the text to come back to plenary because the minister's representative who was in place told us that the procedures were being implemented and that we therefore do not understand why the ex-majority did not support this document, despite the reasonable accommodation that we have brought to it so that it could vote in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u199	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u200	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Pivin, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Sandrine De Crom, Nele Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u201	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Van den Bergh, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u202	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3665/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3665/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u203	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u204	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u205	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u206	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3638/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3638/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u207	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u208	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Hendrik Bogaert, Veli Yüksel, Tim Vandenput.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u209	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Waterschoot is rapporteur, but this proposal comes back from the Defence Commission. Mrs Bellens has been appointed as the reporter of this committee's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President, for that I refer to the written report that is on the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u211	Mrs Waterschoot, you have the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u212	Mr President, I admire the brevity of my colleague N-VA who has been appointed rapporteur for an oral report in this committee. Let me make a comment. Overall, we support this bill, even though it has become a tote. We totally deplore the method and mismanagement of our government on this issue, which this proposal hides badly. Indeed, the objective is noble: to support the work of our Defence. The provisions of this proposal have been the subject of consultation with the social partners and are aimed at creating better working conditions. We will therefore support them. The text has four objectives. The first is to organize practical tests as part of the selection processes. Secondly, it is a matter of promoting a better balance between the private and professional lives of our military. The third objective is to manage the issue of Brexit within the Defence and the fourth is to organize an insurance system for our soldiers during operations in Belgium. Let me comment on three of these objectives, starting with the first. Of course, we support organizing a practical test to ensure that candidates for a position have the necessary skills. On the other hand, the proposal that is on the table organizes a limitation of the candidates who will be able to participate in these practical tests, for organisational reasons. We understand that. But in committee, the competent minister was absent. He was therefore unable to reassure us that the candidates selected for access to this practical test would be selected on the basis of objective and non-arbitrary criteria. I would therefore like to make a recommendation: in the context of the implementation of this bill, it will be necessary to be very careful and not to create discrimination and arbitrariness. Thus, if a hundred people present themselves for a test and only twenty can actually pass it, it will be necessary to define the criteria, the manner in which these twenty candidates will be chosen and to inform them beforehand. That is my first comment on this tote law. My second comment relates to Brexit. The text anticipates the difficulties which could arise for a very limited number - this concerns two people - of our soldiers who are British nationals and who have applied for Belgian nationality. In my view, it was entirely appropriate to anticipate the difficulties that might be encountered by members of the public service following Brexit. However, let us not discriminate in the process against private professionals who may find themselves in the same situation. The rules of law are very different, but I encourage the government to pay attention. If we support members of the civil service, we must ensure that people working in the private sector can also, where appropriate, benefit from access to Belgian nationality. Finally, the last amendment tabled in committee is intended to ensure that our military personnel are on special operations on the street. I am surprised that the government discovered in 2016 that the soldiers in operation in Belgium, on the street since 2015, following the attacks, were not insured. We are at the end of the legislature and we must urgently wait for an amendment to resolve this problem. It seems to me that it is far enough from the "goed beast" that the government has claimed to apply. We will of course support this amendment, but that does not prevent us from repeating that, for my group, the operational presence of the military on the street is not a Defence mission. It is the police that should hold this position. The saturation strategy implemented with the military occupying our streets can only work if it is temporary and exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u213	Mr President, it is not customary for a former minister to ask for the floor on one of his former powers, but Mrs Waterschoot has not been fully informed. She should know that the amendment that was discussed earlier at the committee meeting was on the government table for the first time in 2016. It would seem that she is happy to address the Minister, who is representing the Minister of Defence today, but in fact it is best to address the friends who are sitting next to our group here in plenary. For the sake of completeness, I would like to add that everyone working in the defence sector is, of course, insured. The question is whether all military personnel in operation are covered in the same way. That was, until just now, not the case, and that is not fair. Anyone can have an idea about the deployment of our soldiers on the street in response to the increased threat. I ask her what she says to the people who had their lives in Zaventem on 22 March 2016 because of the first aid they received from the military there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u214	Mr Vandeput, I am pleased to meet you at this plenary. Earlier in committee, the minister was not able to give me the information you are giving me now. That being said, if the amendment was discussed in 2016, how is it only happening today on the table? The N-VA left the government on December 6, the day I was sworn in, an hour later. You could have acted between 2016 and December 6, 2018. Meanwhile, the soldiers on the street were not protected in the same way as they are abroad. That is why my group supports this amendment, but it does not hide the mismanagement of the previous government in which you participated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u215	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u216	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3608/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3608/7) The title was changed by the committee to "draft legislation amending various provisions relating to the status of the military." The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending various provisions relating to the status of military personnel". The bill has 21 articles. The bill has 21 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip280x.u217	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Colleagues, we are through our legislative proposals. After all, there is still a proposal to come from a committee, where the report is still being worked on. Two points will have to be dealt with later: the wind farms and the debate on the revision of the Constitution. In any case, we need a reset of the machine, so I propose that you suspend the sitting. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 April 2019 at 7.50 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, April 4, 2019 at 7.50 p.m.
