ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u1	Thank you, Minister, for being here. You will be explaining today the follow-up committee on Terrorist Attacks. The Conference of Presidents decided to allow the work of the follow-up committee to take place in the Committee on Home Affairs and the Committee on Justice respectively. Minister De Crem will explain this morning about the security hatch and the police hatch. In the meantime, there is a report from Professor Bruggeman, which can be found on the extranet. There is also a report from the Crossroads Bank Security, which can also be found on the extranet. I propose that the Minister present today and that afterwards the members of the political groups who wish to take the floor can take the floor and ask the necessary questions. The Minister will give the answers on 26 November.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u2	Mr President, I have no problem with the fact that we are organizing a second committee, because there will probably be many questions and it is an important issue. If we have time left, I assume the first questions will be answered today. It is not the intention of the Minister to make his statement, to ask the questions and then to wait until the second session. I welcome the fact that a second meeting is planned in the event that all the questions cannot be answered today, but I assume that we will start the debate today and that we will not stop after all the Members have asked their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u3	We will see how much time we have left to engage in a thorough debate. It seems to me that it is more efficient and better to debate in depth all the questions that have been asked so that we do not have to finish it. Of course, we can continue to work while there is still time. I'd like to give the floor to Secretary De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you all to the meeting of your committee, which today will pay attention to the follow-up to the recommendations made in the final report of the Committee of Inquiry following the attacks of 22 March 2016. You know that these recommendations cannot be traced back to the Committee on the Interior. My colleagues, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Health, will also be able to give you important information about this. Our follow-up to the recommendations is difficult to ignore recent events. Just two weeks ago, the self-proclaimed leader of the terror group IS, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, was killed in a military intervention by American elite forces. After this operation was asked in the press whether and what impact the operation would have on the threat level in our own country. The terrorist threat in our country and the analyses that contribute to determining the level of terrorism are part of the recommendations contained in the final report. Having said that, we are not sitting still, not even in this period with a government in current cases. For example, on the basis of the recommendation of the parliamentary follow-up committee, we realized the Belgian Passenger Information Unit (BelPIU) to protect our air traffic. Furthermore, we worked on the implementation of the KB emergency planning that regulates the management of emergency situations at municipal and provincial level. We are also currently working with various partners to update and finalise the National Emergency Plan on Terrorism. I will talk to you later about all these achievements. There is therefore no standstill with regard to the functioning of the Department of the Interior in the follow-up to the recommendations. I am now explaining the recommendations that are strictly within the competence of the Interior. First, I would like to talk about the Foreign Terrorist Fighters and terrorism. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the information available to the OCAM, the general level of threat has, since 22 January 2018, been reduced to level 2 by the OCAM itself. This is the average level on a scale of 4. Exceptions to this general rule relate only to more sensitive sites and targets, including some embassies, airports and railway stations. Level 2 has been confirmed on the basis of various factors such as the dislocation and loss of influence of the terrorist movement and the drastic decrease in the number of terrorism-related investigations in our country. The current threat posed by the Islamic State is less important than before, but has not completely disappeared. For now, no one's going to fight. The remaining threat comes mainly from those called HTFs, Homegrown Terrorist Fighters, or lone wolves. The image is diffuse and complex. The threat, by which I specifically target the threat from HTFs or lone wolves, does not make it much easier for the security services to do so. There is no reason to switch to complacency or inaction. At the same time, the threat from right-wing extremists is also closely monitored. The ideology in which the attacks were perpetrated in Christchurch in New Zealand and El Paso in the United States is also expressed more strongly in our country than in the past, mainly through social media and networks. Since the attacks of 22 March 2016, four terrorist attacks have been committed in Belgium. Each time the killer, the so-called lone actor, was killed and each time the attack was claimed by IS. The four attacks involved the attack on two police officers in Charleroi on 6 August 2016, the activation of a bomb case at the Brussels Central Station on 20 June 2017, a failed attack on three soldiers in Brussels on 26 August 2017 and the attack on two police officers in Liège on 29 May 2018 which killed a civilian the night before. In addition to these attacks, several possible attacks were prevented by the security services and several persons were arrested. These were always individuals who had indications that they wanted to use force in the name of an extremist ideology. Let me now turn to the policy on terrorism. With regard to this policy and the cooperation between the various security and intelligence services, it should be said that federal policy was strongly re-directed under the Michael administration, both in terms of budgets, legislative work and structures. Many initiatives have also been developed and prepared at the other levels of government. These initiatives concern the regions, the cities, the municipalities and the provinces. It is therefore crucial to ensure that all these different people and structures work together in a good way. It is therefore not surprising that this question is explicitly raised in the report. In concrete terms, this concerns the exchange of information, the coordination of the measures to be taken in the fight against terrorism, extremism and problematic radicalisation. Regardless of state structures and legislation, this is, of course, primarily a matter of mutual trust.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u5	An approach to the phenomenon of violent radicalisation can only be successful if this is done through a thorough collaboration between the services, the so-called multi-agency approach. This approach has taken shape in our country through the Plan R, the Plan Radicalism. The final part of the project is the Local Task Forces (LTF) and the Local Integral Safety Cells (LIVC). The latter were legally anchored by the law of 30 July 2018. An LTF focuses on a reactive and repressive approach through a police and judicial succession. This is reflected in the composition of such an LTF: police, security and intelligence services and the public prosecutor. A LIVC, on the other hand, focuses on prevention and aftercare, which is also reflected in the composition of a LIVC, which consists mainly of local social-preventive actors and is chaired by the mayor or his prevention officer. With the exception of the local police, through the crucial figure of the information officer, who ensures a link with the LTF, none of the members of the LTF are in the LIVC. Of course, the information officer plays a particularly important role. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the structures put in place, such as the TFL and the CSIL, also allow for structural and integrated monitoring of people with radical ideas, including all partner services, intelligence and security services, local authorities and social actors. Plan R (Radicalism) is the cornerstone between judicial, administrative and socio-preventive approaches, as well as the link between federal, regional and local levels in the fight against problematic radicalization. The R Plan should be validated by the new governments of the federated entities. It is a lever of cooperation and the government agreements of the federated entities also stipulate that they are part of the existing structures and mechanisms. The law on shared professional secrecy, article 458ter of the CP and the CSIL law of 30 July 2018 endorse a more fluid exchange of information. Early detection is thus made possible and measures can be taken more quickly and effectively, without immediately having to seek the intervention of the police or the justice system. That's what we call dejuration. I'm just thinking about the Belgian Passenger Information Unit, BelPIU. As part of the collection and monitoring of information, the Passenger Information Unit, the Common Data Bank (CDB) and the Security Bank are important links. The Belgian Passenger Information Unit (BelPIU) is a coordination platform. Four security services are physically reunited. It is a coordination platform engaged in the fight against terrorism and major crime through the control of the PNR (passenger name record) data relating to air passengers. The Belgian Passenger Information Unit is one of the first operational units in Europe and continues to play a pioneering role in the fight against terrorism and major crime, including human trafficking and drug trafficking, including by chairing the Working Group of Passenger Information Units of European countries, the United States, Canada and Australia. The BelPIU also focuses on international integration with other ERAPs and will continue to work on increasing the volume of data analysed and strengthening national and international cooperation with our partners. It is also important, in the context of the centralization of information management, to include other sources of information related to passenger travel within the BelPIU. From this point of view, access to all sources of information useful for the assessment of passenger data is essential and the processing of any similar information – for example, the future European Travel Information Authentication System (ETIAS) – must be integrated into this BelPIU in order to be able to move towards efficient and effective management of travel information by the services concerned. Recurrent investment is needed in the performance of computer systems so that the vast amount of information received can be effectively processed by security and intelligence services. The first results of BelPIU are promising. Since the establishment of this service, 23 million passenger data have been checked, resulting in 100 interceptions in the field of terrorism and 120 interceptions in the field of trafficking in human beings. I am formally detracting from the rumour that the various services would be reluctant to share information among themselves. At least I didn't pick up such signals. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come now to the picture, the threat analysis and the security measures, with a very important focus, in particular the Common Data Bank (GDPR). On 14 October 2019, the Common Data Bank had 556 Foreign Terrorist Fighters of FTF'ers, 52 Homegrown Terrorist Fighters of HTF'ers and 67 hate propagandaists of HP's. Those entities shall be monitored from the safety point of view and treated as such as a priority in the LTFs. In the meantime, the GGB has proven its added value, including by informing other partners, such as the mayor, through the information sheet and the information card. Informatics, however, can still benefit from some improvements in the GGB. As regards the extension of the Common Database to categories of potentially violent extremists (PGE) and terrorist convicts (TV), a legal basis was developed, through a KB which is now before the Council of State for an opinion to be issued. It was adopted at first reading at the Council of Ministers on 11 October. The opinion of the Council of State is expected at the end of November. Finally, on the Crossroads Bank Security, a vision paper was drawn up by the Cabinets of Justice and Home Affairs and the various security and intelligence services. The note contains an analysis of the meetings held with the services by several important working groups. Good management arrangements are needed for the Crossroads Bank Security. The Security Crossroads Bank will also require the necessary financial resources. The various security and intelligence services have been planning their IT projects for the coming years. Without additional resources, these projects will be put at risk or at least under great pressure. Given the evolving threat picture of sent-out commands to so-called lone actors, the focus is logically widened from the narrow approach of terrorism to a broader picture of preventing and counter-countering violent extremism or PVE/CVE. The broad social field, the socio-preventive sector, is a key partner in prevention and aftercare. This multidisciplinary approach is necessary for the early detection, exchange of information, accurate prioritisation and alignment of the services best placed to take certain measures. Justice and police are, of course, a crucial partner in this, but they are only the last link in a global approach aimed at preventing violent extremism. I'd like to take a moment to consider the emergency planning. In the case of emergency situations, harmonisation and management are also vital elements to manage and control emergency situations. During the initial moments of an emergency there is greater or smaller chaos. It is therefore important that every player in the wider crisis management at operational and policy level knows very well what the expectations and objectives are. This is reflected in sound procedures, training and also exercises. There was provision for a KB emergency planning and a KB national emergency plan terrorism, which will be discussed in the near future and perhaps at the next Council of Ministers. The KB emergency planning of 22 May 2019 came on the recommendation of the POCs and corrects a number of contradictions from the KB of 31 January 2003. The RB organises emergency planning and management at municipal and provincial level while regulating the role of mayors and provincial governors in the event of crisis and situations requiring coordination or management at national level. Furthermore, the KB also regulates the designation of the director of the operations command post, who is responsible for the operational coordination of the emergency situation. Based on experience from the field and myself and the input of the local emergency planning actors, this function was initially retained for a fire department officer from the relief zone in whose territory the intervention takes place. In this way, no time is wasted on discussing who should take up the position. Depending on the course of the situation, the competent authorities can then decide whether or not the position is passed on to someone from another discipline, for example to a police officer in the event of terrorism. The new RB also clarifies the communication about announcing and eliminating the different phases of crisis management. Finally, the Royal Decree of 22 May also imposed an obligation on local authorities to organise at least a multidisciplinary exercise every year to ensure that the plans, procedures and partners are best known. This was also a recommendation from the POC Attacks. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to the National Emergency Plan on Terrorism. At the time of the attacks in Brussels and Zaventem, it had not yet been formalized. However, its completion could not be delayed, so that its structures had already been activated. After the publication of the Plan, entitled "Royal Order of 1 May 2016 on the approach of a terrorist hostage-taking or terrorist attack", the governors were instructed to integrate it into a specific emergency and response plan (PPUI) dedicated to this specific risk. Each of these specific plans was approved at the end of 2016 by the Minister of the Interior. At the same time, exercises were organized to test PPUI and the National Plan. Real incidents occurred during the same period. On this basis, the current plans and procedures have been evaluated, which have shown that the structures resulting from the National Emergency Plan have not benefited from the management of the emergency situation. The main criticisms were as follows. First, the structures resulting from the Plan do not correspond to those of the usual contingency plans and are confusing - in particular, in the event of an emergency. Secondly, the Plan does not take into account the powers of the various authorities, as the governor would have to sit in the strategic cell, while his provincial cell would be headed by a member of the police. Thirdly, and finally, the number of representatives at each level and within each cell was too high. As a result, it was extremely difficult for cell managers to properly identify the problem and make the appropriate decisions. In collaboration with the governors and federal partners - the federal police, the federal prosecutor's office, the public prosecutor's office in Brussels and many others - the Crisis Centre revised in 2018 the National Emergency Plan on Terrorism. In doing so, it has relied on the usual structures of emergency planning, which are found in particular in the National Nuclear Emergency Plan. This proposal for a new Royal Order Terro is supported by the governors and the relevant security services. For the organization of the local level during a federal phase, reference was made, where necessary, to the Royal Emergency Planning Order issued this year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, however, the CEP's request to have regional and Community ministers-presidents sit ex officio at the level of the strategic unit has not been accepted, given that the number of representatives in each cell must be reduced to the maximum. In order to ensure proper crisis management, it was decided to limit the number of permanent members of the strategic unit and to leave it to the President's discretion whether or not to invite specific services, depending on the needs of the emergency itself. The revision of this royal decree is therefore part of the parliamentary committee of inquiry aimed at harmonizing emergency planning. In the meantime, the Royal Decree in question has been discussed and approved at the level of the National Security Council. A budgetary agreement has been requested and the Royal Decree is currently awaiting approval by the Council of Ministers. It goes without saying that the Royal Order Terro will remain in force until it is replaced by the new proposal. I now return to the role of the Crisis Centre. The National Crisis Centre plays a key role in emergency planning and crisis management. The Crisis Centre has taken many initiatives to implement the recommendations of the CEP reports in the launch, development and configuration of the ICMS (Incident & Crisis Management System). Since January 1, 2017, the national security portal has been operational throughout the country. ICMS supports emergency planning and crisis management processes and promotes the sharing of multidisciplinary information at the operational and strategic levels. In the meantime, the use of the application is already well established within the services concerned, resulting in the daily start-up of protected work environments for the monitoring of incidents or events. The national security portal will be further developed to better respond to multidisciplinary needs to support crisis management. The pilot phase of the BE-Alert system has also come to an end. This system has been deployed at national level since June 2017. To date, 82 per cent of the municipalities have already joined, and more than 670,000 addresses of citizens have been registered. In addition to registration, it is also possible to send a message to those present in an area on the basis of geolocations and SMS alerts. The National Crisis Centre will continue to work towards the evolution of the BE-Alert system in order to maximize its scope, and hence its effectiveness, in the event of an alert. All these different elements of emergency planning, the fight against violent radicalism and extremism, and an efficient policy of detection and prosecution, of course, also require sufficient manpower. That brings us to the police who are responsible for our safety every day. When I took on the responsibility for Home Affairs and Security in December 2018, I found several files to be worked out with the police, such as the staff and resources deficit, recruitment and selection and the sectoral agreement. Many of these files were, of course, already initiated. In the meantime, considerable progress has been made in these cases. Consultation with the trade unions on recruitment and selection has been restarted and will begin to land in the near future. The sectoral agreement entered into force on 1 June this year. Defence's support to the federal police is being detained, contrary to what was suggested in certain media. The Security Directorate was also established, the so-called DAB. This is in full play. Unfortunately, there are few soldiers interested in making the switch to this new management. I insisted that the pilot project on facial recognition be restarted at Zaventem airport. In the near future, a legal basis will also be provided for monitoring potentially violent extremists and terrorist convictions through the common database. The federal police have built up a lot of experience and expertise since the attacks. The same applies to all other services concerned, such as the Crisis Centre, the OCAD and the Belgian Passenger Information Unit, the BelPIU. However, a challenge remains the already mentioned capacity shortage in the federal police. The next government will have to look at the possibility of a more flexible application of integrated police budgets and appropriations – for example, with regard to the conversion of personnel credits into investment credits. This could solve the problem in the event of underutilization of staff resources. These could then be used for investment purposes. This conversion is currently not possible. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the facts underlying this follow-up committee were so important that it was worth much more than the creation. The committee members have therefore done very important work, for which I can only commend them and show my respect. I sincerely believe that the recommendations contained in the report of the POC Attacks are taken seriously and that the various actors concerned are trying to achieve a more effective and effective safety chain to keep your life and our life together safe. However, as I have pointed out on several occasions, we must act collectively against the illusion that there would be such a thing as a zero risk. There is always and everywhere a risk that the stops in individuals will go crazy, regardless of whether they are violently religiously radicalized or extreme right-wing nationalist extremists. In spite of all the efforts and steps that many people and actors take every day, we must never lose sight of this. I thank you for your attention and hope to have given you a general overview of the position of the Home Office and myself on the follow-up to the recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u6	Mr Minister, I would like to thank you for your detailed presentation on many aspects relating to the police section of the recommendations of the follow-up committee on Terrorist attacks. Questions can now be asked. I am happy to give the floor to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u7	Mr President, there may be questions whose answers will be the subject of a discussion behind closed doors. If too sensitive information is requested, I would be happy to go into it, but then the committee could consider a partial sitting behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u8	Good. Then we shall proceed to the questions. I give the floor to Mr Donné.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u9	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express my disappointment at the decision of the Conference of Presidents to split the story between the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior, even though a number of points exceed the exclusive powers of the Minister for the Interior. I do not know whether it is possible to hold a joint meeting at some point or whether both committees will continue to work separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u10	Mr President, Mr Donné, there is no problem in proposing this to my fellow Minister None.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u11	Mr President, Minister, it is a preliminary remark because we have a different view on the administrative and judicial police. Rather, we see the two police forces within an integrated story. Let me now turn to my comments on the explanatory statement, for which I would like to thank you, Minister. A first important point for us concerns the vision of information management. I have experienced a great deal of this in recent years. For the layman it is often evident that information is freely and easily shared between the services. In the field, however, we note that this is not evident at all and that it requires a major change in culture. This cultural change has been used effectively over the past five years, but there is still a lot to be done. The installation of a crossroads bank, as formulated by the parliamentary committee of inquiry, is a very good idea. A working group was set up during the previous legislature to implement that crossroads bank as soon as possible. But, I hear, the resistance of the services to the idea is there again. It is not obvious for the services to share information. I have read the report of the Consultation Committee of 18 May 2019. I also welcome the level of ambition that emerges. However, it always comes down to resources. Those resources are limited. Existing funds will hardly be sufficient to deal with current projects, which are also priorities. Nevertheless, I would have liked the project to remain alive. I read that opinions have been requested from the Committee I, the Committee P and the COC. Firstly, Minister, what is the situation with regard to these opinions? How do you see the progress of the project over the next few weeks and months? With my first question, therefore, I would like to get a detailed assessment of the project and other IT-related projects, such as the OSINT project, which has a very high relevance for both administrative and judicial finality as well as for intelligence services, but which is not yet optimal. A second question concerns the Common Database, but I have already heard the Minister's answer to that. The Council of State's opinion was requested and is expected in the course of November. We await that advice. A third point concerns the internal reform of the federal police, in particular the strengthening of the position of the Commissioner-General, and the vision of the division of the administrative and judicial police. I did not really hear anything about this in the Minister's explanatory statement. I would have liked to have a little more explanation on this. I shall then come to my final point in this first round. After all, I suppose there will be a second round in which, among other things, the issue of emergency aid will be dealt with. I shall, however, leave my colleague to speak on that point. In recent years there has been a catch-up in terms of capacity and resources. It was mainly about terrorism-related matters and functionalities. Unfortunately, however, this takes time. Not only do we need resources; we also need the right structures and regulations to be able to react appropriately. I'm talking about the envelope principle. I am very pleased to hear that this principle, which we have been advocating for a long time, is becoming more and more effective. If there is a shortage of operating and investment resources, underutilised human resources can be used for this purpose. Would a specific initiative not be useful in this respect? Do we have to wait for another government to do that? After all, it does not seem very clear when it will be able to take office. I will leave it at that for this first round. I was mainly talking about the security architecture. At the next round, my colleague will ask a number of questions about emergency aid and emergency aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I would like to join the N-VA colleagues in their request to be able to do the follow-up on Home Affairs and Justice in one piece. In addition to the need for security architecture, it is logical that when experts demand that violent radicalisation be tackled in an integrated way, we do so in Parliament. I have five questions. Firstly, I am very pleased to note that there has been effective progress on many of the points made in the recommendations. I also note that there are still uncertainties, first and foremost at policy level. A number of evolutions are identified in the threat picture with Homegrown Terrorists Fighters, hate preachers, an emerging threat of extreme right-wing. An update of the Plan R is therefore necessary. The local authorities have to do with the existing policy documents, I am thinking, for example, of the Channel Plan. By the way, what about the Channel Plan? In the meantime, what was once a very ambitious approach has become more or less an empty box. I would like to know the plans in the short and medium term for the policy documents that call for follow-up, clarification and updating. A second question is associated with the level of threat. It is good news that the overall threat level is "but" level 2. At the same time, there is still the use of soldiers on the streets. What's the perspective on the military's deployment? What standard should be achieved and what prospects are there for the deployment of military forces? When will it be enough and can we take the courageous political decision to further reduce the use of military forces on the streets by means of the stable threat picture? A third question concerns the exchange of information. I am pleased to note that further work is being carried out on the data base and that further efforts are being made to cooperate between services in order to ensure, as the report of the Committee of Inquiry describes, that the puzzle pieces are not only there, but that they are also put together. I am also sensitive to the suggestion made by Professor Bruggeman when he talks about the balance between security and freedom. It is therefore about the right to privacy. I know from my past in practice, where I have worked on this theme, that there is such a thing as the Washington list, which, for example, means that more than 30 people are taken from the city of Vilvoorde alone. These are people who came into the picture at some point at the OCAD as potential Foreign Terrorist Fighters, but about whom the OCAD later revised the imagery and did not categorize them as Foreign Terrorist Fighters anymore. In the meantime, however, the data exchange ball has started to roll and those individuals are now actually wrongly on lists such as the Washington list, but also on lists of other countries, such as Turkey. Those sovereign countries say that they do what they want with their information. However, Belgium is responsible for initiating this imagery. What measures will we take in the future to ensure the balance between security and freedom, even when it comes to the protection of personal data of people who once came into the picture, but for whom this was not really necessary and who are now permanently affected by it? My fourth question is very specific about the LIVCs. Again, there is a favourable evolution in this area, with the legal anchoring and the transmissible letters that have been issued about this in recent years. However, I notice that within the LIVCs there is a kind of wild growth. In some local authorities, a LIVC is merely a one-off, annual meeting, whereby one can check that there is a LIVC. For other local authorities, it is effectively something very operational and it talks about measures to be taken in relation to those who are perceived by problematic radicalisation. Support for local authorities with a working LIVC has been reduced over the years. What measures will be taken on a policy basis? I understand that financial measures are not currently on the agenda as the government is in the process of doing so to ensure that the LIVCs do what they need to do and that they can also cooperate between LIVCs, an additional focus. Within the framework of the Plan R, much has been invested in cooperation between security and intelligence services at the various levels. However, if, for example, a Foreign Terrorist Fighter lives in a particular municipality and is educated or has family members in another municipality, there should also be cooperation at administrative level. There is currently no framework for this. That is a very concrete task. How will this be done in the future? Finally, I would like to return to the rise of the extreme right. Unfortunately, the discussion that is currently under way reminds me of the way in which the rise of Sharia4Belgium was looked at in 2010. We considered it problematic, but we thought that the problem might have occurred earlier in the margins. Unfortunately, history has caught up with us in this area, which means that we are sitting together today, inter alia, to discuss its consequences. In similar respects, I note that the emergence of the extreme right is in practice referred to as problematic, but it is still lacking to determine what we mean by the threat of the extreme right, from when we describe it as problematic in, for example, freedom of expression and who intervenes when. At the moment, people are already coming into the picture with security services, but in practice, it is unclear for the services involved in the follow-up daily, local police zones and local authorities, but also, for example, schools and associations, to put the exact finger on the phenomenon. There is therefore a need for greater prevention and awareness. I would like to hear what the perspective is in this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u13	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your presentation. As colleagues have pointed out, the examination of the follow-up to the recommendations of the committee of inquiry on the attacks of 22 March 2016 by our committee is a good thing. But the fact that there is no longer a monitoring committee, and that this task is now taken over by the Standing Committees, will not make things easy. But the important thing, let us remain positive, is that we can take stock of the progress made on a regular and systematic basis. Beyond the fact that the attacks of 22 March remain powerfully rooted in our memory, recent events call for vigilance. You called him back. We are thinking about the situation in Syria, the withdrawal of American troops and the Turkish offensive. We are thinking of the question of the return of the jihadists to Belgium, which could be suffered if it is not controlled. We are still thinking of the recent attacks in Halle, Germany, at the beginning of October, and in Bayonne, France, a few days ago, which are not the act of the Islamist movement, but rather of the far right. This is a context that calls for increased caution and, in any case, for continued efforts. Before proceeding to follow up on the recommendations stricto sensu, we would have liked to hear from you, minister, on these topical issues. How do you assess the current state of the threat? What is your position regarding the return of the jihadists? Has it evolved as a result of US pressure and the Brussels court's decision to require Belgium to repatriate a young woman and her two children within 75 days? The Committee of Inquiry has done an important work: a year and a half of work, almost 500 hours of public and in camera meetings to arrive at a report of more than 1,000 pages. It is important to note that these recommendations have not been sat down and taken seriously, even if it would have been possible to go further and faster in their implementation. A point of inquiry. We are talking about the issue of the security carrefour bank. This was a priority recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr. Chairman, to respond to deficiencies in information management, the proliferation of data banks, the lack of an overall vision of information, etc. However, we can see that here we are still at the stage of discussion. The major options have not yet been determined. A consensus committee has been set up. Of course, it has met a number of times, but nothing has been decided. Professor Bruggeman's findings are severe. He tells us: "The competent working group set up by the Minister of Security and Justice drowned this project in complex structures while the CEP's recommendation was limited to a hit-no hit system." Minister, why are things so slow? Is there an assessment of the budgetary impact of a carrefour bank? The report of the consultation committee on the implementation of the carrefour bank refers to a number of options. Should we limit ourselves to the sector of terrorism and radicalism or to a wider scope? Is there a need for a hit-no hit system or for a wider sharing of information? What is your vision, Minister, of the security carrefour bank? We can thank Professor Bruggeman, who, prior to the meeting, completed a detailed review of the follow-up to the recommendations. In his note, there are several points that attract attention and that we would like to hear from the minister. With regard to the first part of the investigation – the "emergency aid" component –, Professor Bruggeman notes that the new Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning does not specify the discipline that must take the lead in the event of a terrorist attack, which is contrary to the CEP's recommendations. Is this an oversight? On the presence of the military on the street, Professor Bruggeman noted that the rules on the use of violence had not yet been revised. For example, the concept of self-defence and the corresponding reaction are not optimally explained and the use of violence is justified only by the law on the police function. Minister, could you take stock of this issue? With regard to the extension of the common database to hate preachers and non-Syrian fighters, an intervention by the presidents of the P and R Committees last June had allowed the projects to be suspended. Secondly, a trial period of six months was, however, allowed from mid-August 2019, subject to certain additional conditions. Can you clarify the current operation of this dataset? Finally, with regard to the means in terms of staff and budget, we remember the alarm cry made by Commissioner General Catherine De Bolle. Professor Bruggeman's note shows that the number of federal police officers decreased between 2014 (12,200) and 2018 (11,939). This means a deficit of about 15% of the framework. With regard to the federal police budget, the Minister indicated that the note indicated a reduction of the order of EUR 200 million between 2012 and 2019. This latter figure isolates federal police-specific credits and takes inflation into account. We all know what current business means. That said, Minister, how do you design service support in this difficult political context? Could you send a note to the members of the committee on the allocation of the resources released under the interdepartmental reserve, so as to be able to take stock of what is possible or not possible in these budgets? Mr President, one element that is not found in Professor Bruggeman's note and which is important to my group is the question of diversified recruitment. The CEP had avoided forming over-peremptory findings on the problem of racism within the police, but had made it a point of attention. To that end, it had recommended progress in terms of recruitment. Minister, have any recent initiatives been taken in this regard? If so, which ones? We would also like to ask you about this subject in connection with the current situation: international police cooperation. We are not going to go back to the controversy that your predecessor, Mr Jambon, initiated by pointing the finger at the liaison officer in Turkey. However, one can recall the findings of the commission of inquiry which showed the structural reasons why it was difficult, in the event of a return of a FTF by an ordinary flight, to obtain the information in good time. How have things changed? The question is obviously very topical. No one is unaware of the situation in Syria. Turkey was a crossing point for the return of El Bakraoui in 2015; it can again be today. Can you, Minister, take stock of international collaboration? The liaison officer in Turkey, 20 years ago, was supported. Is that still the case? Finally, there is one element that has strongly challenged us in recent news. This is the request of the unions for an emergency audit of the Railway Police, including the development of a mobile protection team to deal with the terrorist threat in railway stations. The functioning of this special unit is strongly denounced. It is a question of clawed agents, equipped with intervention equipment which, on top of the market, would carry out search-type operations, which, to my knowledge, does not fall within the competence of the Railway Police. Moreover, it would appear that this unit was formed without any legal basis. Can you take stock of this case? How many men is this mobile team composed and what is its legal basis? Of course, Mr. Chairman, as you recalled earlier, a number of questions will find it difficult to find answers today, given the need for documentation and information, but I thank the minister in advance for the quality of the answers he will provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the good explanation. On 22 March our country was hit, both at the airport of Zaventem and at the metro station of Maalbeek. As you said, it has become clear in recent years that this is not just happening in Belgium. Think of France, Great Britain, Germany and so on. Following the work of the Committee of Inquiry, many recommendations have already been made. One of the things we should not lose sight of in particular is the care of the victims. Although this is not directly a competence of the Minister of the Interior, we consider it important to mention it here. We hope that the recommendations relating to this will be fully implemented. Although ISIS has been hit hard in recent years, we cannot rest on our laurels. The danger of terrorist violence remains and we absolutely must remain vigilant. Even after 22 March 2016, attacks were carried out, both at us and abroad. In many places it was clear that it was mainly lone wolves. These are people from here who may or may not have left abroad first. The threat not only came from a radicalist angle, in recent years we have also witnessed a number of attacks from a far-right angle. One of the main findings of the POC was the lack of information exchange and cooperation between the different services. A thorough approach to radicalisation and effective counter-terrorism can only be successful if the services fully cooperate with the emphasis on full................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We note that several initiatives have been taken to put this into practice, and we absolutely welcome them. However, although you have contradicted it somewhat, we hear that it is suggested that the services would once again have a certain resistance to sharing information. I have two specific questions. Can you give an overview of the initiatives taken to improve information sharing and cooperation? Do you think that these initiatives are paying off? On what basis is the observation that there would again be a growing resistance to cooperation and information exchange between the different services? Have you received any signals or are you saying that things are going well? What's your point of view? The POC proposed using a crossroads bank within the security architecture, i.e. integrated data management with coordination between the services and the authorities. The Safety Crossroads Bank should be an efficient system of secure electronic data exchange between existing electronic databases under the responsibility of different bodies, in line with those for social security. A crossroads bank is only possible after a thorough review of the legislative framework on the information system of all services. The provision of the necessary budgets is also important here, and the establishment of a management platform in which all users should be represented, as well as the designation of a technical management organisation. A report on this issue was published in spring. Can you outline the progress made in this file? The OCAD is responsible for determining the level of threat. In Belgium this is provisional level 2, for some targets it is level 3, for example for Zaventem airport. What measures does the government plan to take to deal with the threat? The facial recognition pilot project has recently been discontinued. You said in your statement that you are absolutely in favour of a continuation. Have any concrete steps been taken to this end? Is there any concrete timing? Could you give us a little more explanation about that? You also said in your statement that it was difficult to further convince the military to take up tasks. However, I am convinced, and I have always said so in this committee, that military forces should be deployed in the right places and at the right moments. That's important. Is there enough motivation in these people? Can we recruit enough to use motivated people against terror? A next item is the control of the passer-name records. It is important in the fight against terrorism and serious crime. Through the Belgian Passenger Information Unit, Belgium plays a leading role in Europe. I think it's important that this stays that way. Minister, what initiatives are being taken to strengthen the unit? Can you give an overview of the realizations of the unit so far? The next item is the National Emergency Plan on Terrorism. The Royal Decree was published on 1 May 2016. In the period after that, a few exercises and incidents showed that some things did not go as they should. The National Emergency Plan on Terrorism was therefore rewritten. Can you give an update on this emergency plan? On what points does this plan differ from the recommendations of the POC? What's the reason for this? The new Royal Decree on Emergency Planning of 22 May 2019 left open who should be in charge in the event of a terrorist attack. However, the POC recommended that the police be in charge in that case. Minister, could you clarify the reason for this? Can you give an update on the various emergency planning initiatives? The rapid delivery of information is important, especially to the citizens. The development of BE-Alert is therefore a good thing. In this way, citizens are directly informed by the government of emergencies. You referred to it in your speech. The project was launched by the Crisis Centre in 2014, followed by a trial period. However, the project has not yet been fully rolled out. Can you give an update on the evolution of BE-Alert? Finally, the problem of a lack of capacity and resources in federal police remains, especially the lack of capacity. We are also discussing here in committee the report on the optimisation of the federal police. It is therefore unnecessary to repeat the discussion in detail. However, Minister, can you outline briefly what initiatives you have taken in your short term as Minister on capacity and financial resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u15	Minister, I hear many specific and detailed questions in this exchange of views. For our part, we wish to recall the framework, to recall what has already been done and which we welcome. For what remains to be done, it is a question of establishing a methodology with the whole committee. Together with the other political parties, under the previous legislature, the MR has done a long job in this commission of inquiry and in the Committee on Terrorist Attacks. With the help of experts, all Members of Parliament, and our MPs MR – Denis Ducrame, Philippe Pivin and Gautier Calomne – a number of things have been required in the committee, for example in terms of communication between services, assistance to victims, or the question of a chapter on religious radicalism. An element that touches the very foundation of what has decided individuals living in our country to hurt, to kill the greatest number of people. All the recommendations were decided by consensus. It is therefore essential that this issue of national security continues to transcend political divisions. And even more so at this time of day-to-day business. If zero risk does not exist in the face of these barbaric acts, as Professor Bruggeman pointed out, all of these recommendations have shown that our functioning can and should be improved. To protect oneself better, to intervene more effectively and more quickly, and also, it is essential, to better support the victims. Of course, the question of day-to-day affairs limits us, but it is not all a question of additional resources and new budget. In addition, as you said, Minister, many initiatives were taken between 2016 and 2018 with regard to the emergency plan, emergency services, or the operation of the Crisis Centre. In the field of communication too: this is a key element which has been highlighted for its weaknesses. Therefore, we need to establish a working method, but it is necessary to take stock of what has been done, what has been well done, what has been wrongly done, and the current priorities that are under way or required by and for our safety and rescue services. For example, decisions have been taken to extend the capacity of the ASTRID network, in particular under a new management contract. Has an evaluation at this level been conducted since these decisions? Has the priority access of telephone and GSM networks for emergency and response services been effectively tested? Is the blue light system effective? We talked about six thousand maps for federal and local levels. Where exactly are we today? In the area of victim assistance, legislative changes have also been made. Are all victims well cared for? How many are still waiting for compensation? In the context of the increase to EUR 125 000, have funds been granted to victims and have they been granted in their entirety? In terms of legal fees, are requests for victims currently pending? This rapid assessment is therefore indispensable to us in our discussions with you, Minister. In terms of methodology, it would be wise – given the current and provisional 12th cases – to distinguish between recommendations calling for a new budgetary decision and to specify its financing, such as the creation of the security bank, which is absolutely indispensable in the light of the conclusions of the committee of inquiry and the report of the conciliation committee responsible for it, and those recommendations which do not require a budgetary decision. This is so that we can move forward as concretely as possible. Without considering that this determines the priority to be given, this would allow us to take a big step forward. That is a suggestion, Mr. Chair and Mr. Minister. For example, in the area of victim assistance, in administrative procedures or in the Radicalism section, as regards the legal framework for local authorities to access the necessary information, or the list of weak signals and control procedures in granting subsidies to associations, this may not require a budgetary decision. At the end of today's discussion, we have a series of important and specific questions, the content of which should be able to be forwarded in writing to the minister so that he can answer us at the November 26 sitting and have time to gather all the information, however specific it may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u16	Mr President, Minister, the parliamentary committee of inquiry recommended that the equipment of the emergency services be adapted to the needs of terrorist attacks. What role do you think civil protection plays in this? Can it carry out its task properly since the recent reforms? Civil Protection has material and expertise, enabling it, for example, to provide assistance in the event of a chemical threat. If our country's emergency services are prepared to provide disaster assistance, should we not respond to the distress signals we receive from civil protection personnel? As we have heard here in the past few weeks, there are staff shortages, but the reduction in the number of posts also means that there are too far-reaching movements to be able to get there quickly. In your view, can these developments have an impact on the preparedness of our emergency services? Like my CD&V colleague, I find it useful to discuss the issue of aftercare here. Following the attacks, Belgium has shown that there is insufficient protection for victims of terrorism. The Committee of Inquiry has made recommendations. However, rapid compensation, appropriate care and due attention remained outstanding. In March 2019, a UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and Counter-Terrorism published a report on the situation in Belgium. According to the report, the system of fees is still complex and incomplete. At the heart of the problem remains the same: victims of terrorism are faced with a hugely complex administrative burden, which makes it very difficult for them to access the reparations and damages they are entitled to. What is the status of the special emergency fund? How does cooperation with the victims work in this respect? The parliamentary committee of inquiry attributed a large role to the district agents and the local police. As we saw in the vandalised terrorist attack in Verviers, the classic police investigation carried out by police officers with their two feet in reality is decisive in the fight against terror. However, in the evaluation report of the federal police, we read that the savings meant that the local level had to assist the federal level, which is detrimental to the proximity of the police. Has the potential role of the district agent in the fight against terror been improved or deteriorated by your predecessor's policy? The parliamentary committee of inquiry rightly questioned the role of Saudi Arabia and the financing of extreme right-wing interpretations of Islam. The hypocrisy, however, is appalling. While in Belgium military patrols, we ship weapons from Antwerp to Saudi Arabia. We are all right to criticise Saudi Arabia, but when petrodollars come into play, morale suddenly becomes more flexible. We call a halt to hypocrisy. If we really take the fight against terrorism seriously, we will cut the military ties with Saudi Arabia. Do you think that the Belgian arms trade policy is conflicting with the fight against terror in our country? The parliamentary committee of inquiry rightly pointed out that discrimination and lack of integration can lead to radicalisation. The jihadists and extreme right-wing forces in our country are doing everything they can to divide the population according to faith, culture or ethnicity. That is why, like other colleagues, we believe it is appropriate to extend the Plan R, also to cover the growing threat of extreme right-wing terror. The contradiction between Muslim and non-Muslim is a false contradiction that the jihadists themselves spread. We must not go along with that, and that is why we must fight all hate fighters and terrorists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u17	Mr President, I would like to raise three issues. Firstly, coherence and coordination in information management. You have rightly said that there is still a need for further progress and for financial efforts to be made. The way in which information is collected in the field and how it is handled, I find a bit distressing. That still happens, so to speak, with pencil and paper. Let me give you an example of the ADIV. The general said here in the Defence Committee himself last year that he had passed a name through two different channels in his organization to investigate. There was nothing going on through a canal. Another channel involved a major criminal. I am asking myself serious questions. That's what I told him. A second example. The independent databases of State Security, ADIV and OCAD are not connected and people have to call each other to check if anything is in the database. I'm worried about that. The inconsistency of the data and the time taken by all of this means that terrorists can still walk around here freely. The technology is advanced: big data, algorithms running on databases and so on. We therefore call for this crossroads bank, but it must be a database, a digital backbone, in which everyone can place information on the police, the ADIV, the security of the State. People with a certain level of authorization can also extract information from that. That's where we need to go. I understand you want this, too. Can you elaborate on that? More importantly, what are we doing about the conservatism of the various pillars, which all work side by side and which do not want to share information, because they think that this information only applies to them? How are we going to solve this conservatism in our services? That's a first question about the crossroads bank. My next question has already been asked by a number of other colleagues. The military are still on the street, at terror level 2. There is a very strong demand at the Department of Defense that the soldiers who are on the streets today should not be used for this anymore, for various reasons. I'll give you two. The first reason is the lack of capacity, which also exists in the defence sector, because there too the outflow is greater than the influx. The second reason is the training: there are people who have started with the Defense Department and who have done nothing in the last four years but stand on the street. That's not a good education, and that's not why those people started in the DOD. Sooner or later We shall lose them. What needs to be done to finally get the military off the streets and let the police take over their duties again? The third theme is the pilot project on facial recognition, which was also cited by a number of colleagues. Personally, I am very much in favour of this. In my opinion, security and privacy can go hand in hand: we already do so with the ANPR, so facial recognition should also be possible. We therefore urgently need to establish a legal basis for the launch of such a pilot project on Zaventem, but also perhaps in Brussels-South or in Antwerp. What are your concrete plans to do that, because that will really be necessary, especially with the FTFs who are again free to go around Syria and Iraq today and who may sooner or later enter our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u18	Mr Minister, after the terrible attacks in our country on 22 March 2016, we worked one and a half years in the Committee of Inquiry to find out how the attacks could happen, to expose system errors or shortcomings in our legislation and organisation and to make recommendations to do better in the future. A hundred recommendations were adopted unanimously. In the meantime, these recommendations have all been over two years old. The latest report on the approach to radicalisation dates back to October 2017. The reports on help to victims and on security architecture date back to summer 2017. The aid report dates even from the summer of 2016. At that time, Minister, when I adopted the recommendations, I said that the work would only really begin at that time. The most important recommendations, which I repeat, were approved by Parliament once again, had to be introduced and adopted as soon as possible. It was therefore a good thing that a follow-up committee was set up during the previous legislature. I therefore deeply regret that we do not re-establish them during the present legislature. It is a pity that we are conducting the debate in a wide range of battles. I therefore support or support the call for the Justice and Home Affairs Committees to be called together together at the time when we are reflecting on the follow-up to the recommendations. I would also like to suggest that the Minister of Health be involved in the dossier. When it comes to the recognition of victims, most of the questions now come to the attention of the Minister for Security. In my opinion, however, they should also partly be referred to the Minister for Health. It is therefore useful that we should also involve her in the follow-up to the recommendations. The previous speakers have already pointed out that there are quite a lot of questions in this area and they remain open. Today we are here to produce an analysis and an intermediate position. During your speech, Minister, you pointed out that many things have already been done. Nevertheless, a lot of work remains on the shelf. It is therefore a good thing that we are getting a state of affairs in due course. Let me give you some examples. I'm thinking of the shortage of 2,500 federal police personnel. Minister, I asked you last summer about the state of play in that dossier. At that time, you admitted that the deficit had even increased at that time. At the time when we set up the Committee of Inquiry, the staff deficit was 14%. When I questioned you last summer, you admitted that the staff shortage was already 16.3%. That is not the direction we want to take. The intention is, of course, to eliminate the deficit and not to increase it. Mr Bruggeman's report also shows that no progress has been made in this area since the attacks and even after the urgent recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. A lot of police forces, not just the terrorist services, moan under a staff shortage. I cannot stress enough how important it is to create a sufficient workforce as soon as possible. Expert Bruggeman rightly writes, I quote: "The core business of the federal police and the support missions are under pressure." You have indicated, Minister, that we are in current affairs and that there is a need for additional funding. If I have listened carefully, I have found that everyone has raised the staff shortage. Everyone also thinks it is important to fill the staff shortage. If the government is unable to take any initiative in current cases, I propose that we should go beyond this in committee and take a parliamentary initiative. After all, this is a very important and very urgent problem which cannot be ignored. The Minister said that there is no zero risk. However, it is better to act proactively instead of waiting for a new incident, after which everyone can scream murder and fire again. If we are aware of the seriousness of the matter, let us in committee take a parliamentary initiative, supported by the Minister, to remedy that deficit. There are also important recommendations on victims that have not yet been implemented. Legislation has already been adopted in Parliament and important steps have been taken, but serious shortcomings remain. Thus, it appears that the recommendation to recognise and support the representative victim association has still not been implemented. Another important aspect for the victims is the creation of a single expertise. One of the greatest annoyances of the victims is not only the maze of authorities and insurance companies that they have to go through, but that they have to prove repeatedly that they are victims. They have to answer the same questions over and over again. Every time, they have to put the same evidence on the table. The Committee of Inquiry therefore recommended that a single expertise be obtained. It is very regrettable that this recommendation has still not been implemented. Another point. I would like to emphasise once again the importance the Committee of Inquiry has attached to the proper exchange of information. You said in your statement, Minister, that a smooth exchange of information was now made possible without having to call on the police and the judiciary. In this way, information can be exchanged much faster. However, I read in Mr Bruggeman's report that 13 OMCWs have gone to the Constitutional Court because they are not prepared to share information in the Local Security Cells. This is a big problem. We have discussed this for a long time in the Committee of Inquiry. This was mainly about professional secrecy. The committee opted for this reason to share that information in the Local Security Cells, so that the confidentiality was shared and the information was not simply disseminated. If I find today that 13 OMCWs are going to the Constitutional Court and that there is no exchange of information in many places, I think we are taking a step backwards rather than forward. The main recommendation to improve the exchange of information was the creation of the crossroads database. In preparation for today's hearing, we received a letter from your fellow Minister, Geens, and from yourself, together with a report from the conciliation committee. Allow me to say that I am very sorry that it is all going so slowly. One year after the unanimous recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, ministers had written a visionary text on this subject. Now, two years later, we get the report from the Consultative Committee, which announces that it should first be submitted for advice to the College of Attorneys General, to the P Committee, to the I Committee and to the Police Monitoring Body. I wonder how useful all our work has been in this committee of inquiry, where we have made recommendations, if we now have to seek advice again while the whole thing stands still. Therefore, the conclusion of expert Willy Bruggeman, which I quote, is correct: "The crossroads database remains under discussion and the relevant working group drowns the project in its report in complicated structures, where the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry was intended as a limited hit/no hit system." Frankly, I do not understand that, Minister. In the Committee of Inquiry, we have looked for the mistakes that have been made and our conclusion was that the error did not lie with one person. Together, we concluded that there was no need for new police reform, but that there was a need for a change of heart and that the information needed to be shared and disseminated much more. To this end, the crossroads database is very important to strengthen our security services. You can read the reports and reports issued after the attacks to find out how much information was not shared. Afterwards, it is easy to ask what would have happened if information had ended up with certain people. Our committee of inquiry agreed that if information had been shared with the right services, perhaps more appropriate action could have been taken. Now, two years after date, as the only point in relation to the crossroads database, there is a further request for advice. I don't understand. Minister, I look forward to your response to that. Minister, I have a few specific questions. On 22 May 2019 a new royal decree was issued on emergency planning. We now read in the Brugesman report that the Royal Decree does not state that, in the event of a terrorist attack, the police take charge, although the Committee of Inquiry recommended it. In your statement, you explained the emergency planning. Will the royal decree specifically state that the police should take charge if necessary? If that is not the case, why not follow the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry? We read in Mr Bruggeman's report that the position of the Commissioner-General has still not been strengthened. My colleague also referred to it. Why hasn't that recommendation been implemented yet? This is also mentioned in the report on the optimisation of the federal police. Is that in the pipeline? When can we expect the necessary royal decisions on this matter? Then there is the staffing of emergency power stations. Despite successive recruitment waves in recent years, the operationality of emergency power stations 101 and 112 continues to decline. According to 2018 figures, the operational framework, which should count 311 people for the whole country, only consists of 249 people who are effectively operational. When we look at employment per province, we see large decreases. In Brussels, the deficit is as high as 40%, in East and West Flanders 36%, in Antwerp 32%, in Flemish Brabant 24% and in Limburg 22%. This means that the emergency power stations are only manned by 2 to 4 people. As a result, there is a high risk that citizens in distress, who call 911, will have to wait long before they get someone on the phone. On 12 September 2019 they started forming new operators. They too will not be able to overcome the large deficits. In the meantime, more and more operators are falling out with stress-related diseases for a long time. Minister, what minimum occupancy should the emergency power stations have? What are the current figures for emergency power station staff per province? How many operators failed in 2019? How many more do you plan to recruit? I read your last reaction in the press, in which you said that you could not take new initiatives in current cases. I remind you of your own words. My colleague Karin Jiroflée questioned you at the beginning of this year about the staff shortage at the Central 112. You replied: "The emergency power stations' staff frameworks 112 and 101 were completed today at around 80%. It is true that there are differences between the centres. I have already had the opportunity to visit many of these power stations, which are often housed in police buildings. Some centres have a higher staff shortage than others. Specifically, I can answer your question that new staff will be recruited this year to reduce deficits." Specifically, how many staff have you recruited to reduce the deficit you are talking about? That's how I get to ASTRID. The ASTRID network used for the communication of emergency and order services was in need of a thorough review following serious technical problems in the event of overload, as in the case of the attacks of 22 March. It is very important for emergency services to be able to communicate in the event of an emergency. I would therefore like you to give me an update on the measures taken for the ASTRID network to meet the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on improving the means of communication of the security services. What are the technical specifications for increasing the capacity of the ASTRID radios? How does this capacity increase relate to the situation of 22 March 2016? What efforts have been made to digitise communication? What adjustments were made to make the appliances more user-friendly? In the meantime, can they be used hands-free? What are the current structures of the communication groups? How is this different from the situation on 22 March? Has there been an evaluation of the measures taken by the user? What are the costs for a police zone to be connected to ASTRID? Which police zones do not use ASTRID? What alternatives are there? How is the link maintained so that, in case of emergency, all parties concerned can communicate with each other? We also remembered that during the attacks a lot of our policemen switched to whatsapp. I do not know if it falls within your remit, Minister, but the support of a network in Brussels is slightly lower than in other provinces. In the meantime, agreements were made with the providers to increase that support, weren't they? I'll find out if this falls within your jurisdiction. Then there is the update of the Plan R, which provides for the multidisciplinary approach to counter radicalisation. This was updated by the federal government at the beginning of 2015. A number of developments have taken place in the meantime. Many initiatives have been taken to better monitor radicalising individuals and groups and to prevent the impact of radicalising effects on society. It should be ensured that the many directives, structures, working groups, ad hoc committees and procedures based on the expertise acquired are and remain structured and coordinated in order to promote an integrated and integrated approach to the phenomenon. A new update of the Plan R is therefore on the table. Mr Minister, I would like to have a state of affairs on this matter. Is that what you're working on? How does the Plan R respond to the initiatives of the Länder, such as the Walloon anti-radicalisation plan and the Channel Plan? When will an updated Plan R be launched? I have one final question about the preservation of the documents of conviction. The General Inspectorate has repeatedly warned that the detention of convictions is becoming more and more problematic in both judicial investigations and police practices. Apparently, there are cases where seized goods are not kept in a manner consistent with their interest as a document of conviction. They are kept in personal closets or in individual suitcases, because of infrastructure problems that require the police to ask for documents to be kept for a longer period of time. This jeopardises the regularity of the taking of evidence and exposes the police forces concerned to allegations of integrity violations. So, Minister, I have the following questions. What procedures apply in this way of detention to ensure the regularity of the taking of evidence? Have directives been issued to that effect? What measures have you taken to remedy this problem? Are there any other cases where beliefs are kept in this way? This is an important theme and I have many questions. I apologise for this, but I think its importance justifies that. Last but not least, as far as information is concerned, we said at the beginning that it is not just about internal security but also about justice in the committee. The Committee of Inquiry has also shown that the sharing of information between these two services is very important. We have discussed this for a long time and have come to the conclusion that a joint intelligence centre and a joint decision centre should be set up. As part of the call for unity of command, improved data exchange and better cooperation, the Committee of Inquiry recommended these centres. Parket, police and intelligence agencies have to decide on the files together. For example, they all have the same information and together take responsibility for its follow-up. This will ensure that files are no longer dismissed without knowledge of all the evidence and information and that all files are properly followed up. In the report of expert Bruggeman, we read that this has so far only been carried out by the Brussels Office and that the other four would follow next year. One national joint intelligence center with its decision centers is not even mentioned at all. Is there a plan to introduce this in the four PHPs? Is that what this year is supposed to do? Why have no steps been taken on one national joint intelligence center with the corresponding decision centers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u19	Thank you, Mrs Kitir. I think we will just have time for Mr Dallemagne's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u20	Mr President, Minister, I will try not to be redundant in relation to all the questions that have already been asked, and I thank my colleague Kitir for being so exhaustive. First of all, I want to come back to the question of methodology. We have done very serious work in this committee of inquiry and in this monitoring committee. I hear a lot of colleagues regret that the work is now divided between several committees. Mr President, I wonder if we should not come back to this matter at the level of the Conference of Presidents. I think the risk is that we are working badly. I hear dozens of questions and I could add a few. We have Professor Bruggeman's report, which is a useful report, but let us be careful! This report is still imprecise on some points. It's not as systematic as we would have liked. I find that it is written in some respects more as a personal note than as a true report. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are in the business of day-to-day business. It's not easy either, but I wonder how we're going to work to prevent all of this from drowning in something very imprecise or even lacunary. Mr President, I call for further work on the methodology for following up on these recommendations. There were dozens of them. They are all useful and important. It would have been interesting to review, point by point, each of these recommendations rather than steal from one topic to another, from one issue to another and perhaps forget some parts and some discussions. I also hear Mr Taquin's remark that certain points cannot be settled in ordinary matters. Probably. There are, for example, issues related to resource problems that will be difficult to resolve in day-to-day business, but it is necessary to check where we can move forward and where we may have to wait. In any case, I think it is necessary to be systematic and to re-establish – that would be my suggestion – a monitoring committee that would meet not at an intensive pace but once a month or once every two months as under the former legislature, with very concrete items on its agenda. I will take one point: the issue of airport security and more specifically the issue of the NRP. Mr. Minister, you mentioned the number of checks carried out. I remember there was a whole discussion about extending the PNR to buses, trains. Is this discussion still taking place? Why? How? How is this NRP put in place? It's a subject in itself. I come to the question of international police cooperation. I remember that in the Beauvais incident, where Salah Abdeslam could not be intercepted, there were three databases: Interpol, Europol and Schengen. These three bases were not interconnected. What is the status of international police cooperation? We were told that it is very difficult to work with Turkey. What is the status, given the seriousness, urgency and topicality of cooperation with Turkey? Mr President, I do not wish that, next time, once again in a single sitting, we should be given a little bit of information without being able to really check the status of each of the recommendations. I would have liked, because that was how we worked, for Professor Bruggeman himself to come and explain what he felt was the most important, the most interesting, the most urgent and the most problematic in these recommendations. In any case, I am asking the question of methodology, because it is central if we are to make proper progress on all these issues. Colleagues, I'll finish. On methodology, there are all the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, but we can also ask ourselves whether we should not take stock of all the anti-terrorist laws that have been adopted. I think we've passed several dozen anti-terrorist laws. Some felt that these laws may sometimes go too far. Others felt that they might not go far enough. I think it would also be interesting, at some point, for us to have this debate on anti-terrorism laws. In addition, 30 measures were adopted by the previous Government. What is the status of the implementation of these 30 measures? Some measures have been rejected, others not. A majority of them were adopted, but some were not. Is there an evaluation to be made? I think the question of methodology is central. Madam, if you take the floor, I will speak again on a few additional questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u21	I wanted to support you in your approach. At the time, when I was on the other side, I wrote to the aid report. In response to a question from President Dewael at the time, we had to give an update, with three quarters of the recommendations already being implemented. There are reports like this. Why do we not leave these official documents by section: aid, radicalisation, security architecture? Why do we not share these issues? Here many questions are asked to the Minister who are not for this minister. Here questions are asked about telecoms, public health, justice. I therefore support Mr Dallemagne's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u22	As far as the comments made by almost all political groups on the working methods are concerned, as I said at the beginning, the working methods were agreed at the Conference of Presidents. The report of that meeting expressly stated that the working methods will be evaluated in six weeks' time. I suggest that every group that has comments on this should put it in the right place. For the time being, I believe that we can combine these questions. I invite the Minister to give answers on 26 November. I believe that we can then find a different way of working in the Conference of Presidents, taking into account all the comments made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u23	Mr. President, I will continue. Of course, I will address my remarks to my group leader. That said, as chairman of the committee, you could also relay those that were issued here. As you have pointed out, the proposal of the Conference of Presidents needs to be evaluated. For my part, I believe that Parliament must deal with this issue independently of the minister who is in front of us. We know that Mr. De Crem has taken over this function recently, perhaps for a short time – we don't know – and with little means. This should not prevent us from working in accordance with the method adopted earlier and which, I hope, allows us to act more systematically. Most of the questions seem to me to have been addressed. I still have two or three more, which seem central to me, but I don't know if they've been cut. So, is the procedure for closing the metro clearly defined? This had taken a long time, as the federal government had to discuss it with the Brussels Region. Is this debate over for good? As far as ASTRID is concerned, many questions have already been asked. However, in the sad Mawda case, this issue came back to the table because of the ever-present problems of interconnection and possibly training. About the airports, I am struck by the heterogeneity between Charleroi and Zaventem. No more vehicle and baggage checks are carried out at this last airport. We used to get into the terminal. In Charleroi, a car control existed for a long time, before being removed. The luggage is still made outside the terminal. In any case, in Zaventem, someone who comes with a suitcase of explosives can enter the terminal without having undergone any prior inspection. That is why I am always surprised to see the extreme weakness of the methods followed and the level of vigilance, especially with regard to the attack that was committed on 22 March 2016. As many things have been said about the carrefour bank and the workforce, I will not go back to that. As far as central police services are concerned, we know how weak they were in the previous legislature. Here too, I am aware of the adoption in the Council of Ministers last March of a royal decree which could strengthen them. However, it has not yet been published. So I'd like to know where we are. We can no longer hear anything from a European intelligence agency. For the rest, I think that most of the other issues I had prepared were addressed by my colleagues. There is also the cooperation of the intelligence services, the establishment of the National Strategic Intelligence Plan and the whole issue of the victims of the attacks, which has been raised at length, rightly, by several of my colleagues, since this is still a problem. Mr President, I have one last comment. I imagine there will be a report and we will have access to the minister's briefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u24	An integral report of the meeting shall be drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u25	Minister, I have two very small specific questions. Firstly, after the attacks there was also some criticism of the operation of the 112 plants, namely that they were all separate islands. In 2017, the Jambon cabinet made a proposal to the Council of Ministers to link that architecture supraprovincially. If then an attack occurs, one plant could concentrate on the attack and help another plant to ensure regular operation, such as assistance in case of heart attacks and accidents. For this, money was released on the TERRO commission, EUR 1.3 million, if my memory does not fail me. This started in 2018 with a clustering of the first three or four plants. How does that work? In the meantime, are there any more power stations connected? My second question is about ASTRID. A lot of questions have already been asked, so I shall confine myself to a little bit. For the future of ASTRID, it is very important that we move away from the tetranetwork and that we can use the 700 MHz broadband. That is where the spectrum file is important. Where are we with the little piece of ASTRID in the spectrum story? How fast can we switch to get that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u26	Mr President, I would like to put a few points forward quickly and to bounce back first and foremost on Mr Dallemagne's speech, since my colleague, Jessika Soors, in his excellent first speech, had already asked for the two committees to be brought together. It would be very interesting to take up the report, recommended by recommendation, in the presence of the experts. I will also bring this request back to our group leaders. I wanted to join the unanimity that seems to emerge around this methodology. Minister, I will deal with my questions in a very factual way. First of all, as far as the police is concerned, there are many questions. Professor Bruggeman's note includes a very clear picture of evolution. As you know, a very important recommendation in the report of the commission of inquiry calls for a return to the framework, that is, to complement the framework of the federal police, i.e. 13,500 people. From the date of the last report to May 2018, the staff has increased to 11,939, which is an increase. Is there planning for the return to the theoretical framework of the federal police? I know that this is a major effort, whether it is at the budget level or at the staff level. This was, in any case, voted unanimously, in the same way as the upgrading of the status and conditions of the neighbourhood agent. I would like to know if we have been able to make concrete progress at this level. I would then like to approach Zaventem airport and its security. I do not think that has been said so far. I'm trying to be effective. During the hearings of the Board of Inquiry, there was a real controversy over the operation of air inspectors at the airport. These inspectors, who are now under the supervision of Brussels Airport Company (LAC), believe that there is a conflict of interest situation as they must audit the quality of safety while being under the supervision of the airport itself. One of the recommendations of the commission of inquiry was to place these inspectors under the supervision of a public body. It was not specified which one was left to the minister or the government. Today, this is still not the case. I would like to know whether the Minister intends to put this recommendation in place to avoid this conflict of interest situation and to ensure that those dealing with security are not controlled by the entity that they themselves have to control as auditors, security inspectors. This is a very important element for us. We had thought about the Mobility FPS but I repeat that what is important is that it is under public supervision. Finally, as far as ASTRID is concerned, I agree with all the questions that have been asked. Could we also have details of its implementation of the management contract put in place as well as for the investment plan? At the time, we had received ASTRID's investment plan that reflected what had been achieved and what remained to be done. Could we have an update of this investment plan, since this investment in the ASTRID network is also something very important?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u27	Mr President, don't worry, I'll go right to the point! It is important to have a methodology. I really insist. In the framework of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, a report of more than a thousand pages was produced. The report contains recommendations. I thank Mr Dallemagne for his support on this point. It is important to distinguish between measures which can be implemented and which do not have a budgetary impact and those which give rise to one. I do not know whether this work should be done within a committee or within the minister's departments, and whether it should be done in common. I also agree with my colleague that a single committee should be set up. That's the group's will. I invite you, Mr President, to refer this request to the Conference of Presidents. This will allow us to work in a structured way, putting national security at the heart of the debate without political divisions, and keeping in mind the victims, who are to be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u28	Mr President, you bounced the ball back to the Conference of Presidents, but the committee is in charge of its own work. A lot of questions have been asked about the method. I stress the importance of working efficiently. That is why I would like to propose to you, together with the chairman of the Committee on Justice, that the various chapters be divided on the basis of the suggestions made. We may be able to work more efficiently, because no one wants to meet. Finally, we intend to follow the recommendations in an efficient manner. With that voice, we can go together to the Conference of Presidents and not in scattered battle order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic044x.u29	I share your opinion, Mrs Kitir. Of course, we're not the only players in the story. You rightly pointed out that the Justice Commission is also an involved party. We must indeed talk to that committee to see whether there is the same feeling as here in our committee. The Committee on Justice is meeting at 3 p.m. this afternoon on the subject, but you were probably already aware of that. So I can only conclude, Minister, that we would like to invite you again, on 26 November, to get the necessary answers to the very many questions that have been asked here.
