ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u1	Mr Najm, I give you the floor so that you can inform us of your concerns and of the way in which you are working for the support of the Christians from the Middle East.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I did not know that I had to present a whole text. It's okay. It will come out of the heart and I will only tell the truth of what happened. My name is Simon Najm. I arrived from Lebanon in 1977, following the war in Lebanon. I started medical studies at the Catholic University of Leuven. Today, I am an orthopaedic surgeon, head of department at the hospital in Nivelles, which is part of the Jolimont group. Today I am much more Belgian than Lebanese, but I still have feelings towards my native country. It is for this reason that I have always wanted a living together, a beautiful understanding between the different communities in Lebanon and the Middle East. I have always campaigned to support Eastern Christians during the war in Lebanon, and when Syria had control over Lebanon. At the end of 2013, I felt that Christians, once again, were threatened in Iraq, Syria and the region. It was for this reason that I contacted the various priests of the Eastern parishes in Belgium and invited them to see each other. They all agreed. They came with a lot of emotion and motivation. We decided to meet regularly to get to know each other more. I did not want these meetings with the different Eastern parishes to take place without the presence and involvement of the Belgian Latin Church. Things have rushed. I talked about late 2013, but in June 2014, the famous events in Mosul took place. They have precipitated things: persecution of Christians and Jezidis and displacement of people. It was then that we officially launched this movement that we called "Committee of Support for Eastern Christians" (CSCO). In fact, the Belgian government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of this period helped us deliver food to Iraqi Kurdistan. That committee was therefore born. Its goal is to help Christians stay at home on their millennial land, despite the difficulties, persecutions and abuses that are repeated throughout history. I must not remind you that in 1915 the Armenian genocide took place. Everyone is talking about this genocide, which is, in fact, an Armenian and Aramaic genocide. When I say "Aramaic," I think of the other Christian populations. Indeed, 1.5 million Armenians were killed, but also 500,000 Aramaeans (Assyrians, Chaldeans, Ancient Greeks). History repeats itself. They're people who left Turkey. In the past, there were 35 per cent of Christians in Turkey. Today, there may still be 2%. All these people have gone to Iraq and especially Syria and Lebanon. You know very well that today, in Lebanon, there are about eighteen different communities trying to live together more or less properly, even if a war breaks out from time to time. I remind you of the 1975 civil war in Lebanon. We felt that danger. We were sure that Christians were in danger of death in the area. We had an obligation to react with our weak means. So we organized a Belgian military plane food shipment in 2014 or 2015. We have also organized demonstrations. We have been to the European Parliament. In short, we have moved on the ground and politically. Since 2014-15, we have made more or less 15 trips to the region. We took risks. We went to the front. We went a mile from Daesh. We listened to the people. We went to the refugee camps. We did not see only Christians, we saw everyone, including and especially the Yezidis because, in my opinion, it was a population that suffered even more than Christians. It's a population that doesn't get anyone's help. It is for this reason that, on each trip, we went in a team with parliamentarians, journalists and members of the Eastern Christian Support Committee. Personally, I visited Iraqi Kurdistan and north-eastern Syria in December 2015. It was a very trying journey, both physically and morally, and I was not the only one with tears in my eyes when we met the families in the camps. Desperate families, who no longer want to live or return home, and who seek the way to leave at all costs. It is true that, the following year, some of these families hesitated between staying at home and going to the unknown. It is precisely these families that we have sought to help. The goal of the CSCO is to help people stay at home. It is for this reason that we have opened clinics (the families concerned needing treatment), schools, foster homes and a house for the reintegration into society and psychological support of Iraqi women and girls. We have also opened schools and clinics in Qamishli, in the north-east of Syria. We thought that we had no choice, that all these trips to the region should be documented. When I spoke to you about the genocide of 1915, the majority of the population and those who are aware of the problem think that it is an Armenian genocide. That's not true. If some think it's an Armenian genocide, it's because it's the Armenians who left written traces and photos. Within this group, we decided to document our journeys, to write, and we therefore published a book entitled Christians of the East, my love. This book is sold in bookstores and by our association. It contains a great deal of information about our travels, but also historical information so that the public does not forget what happened in the region as a result of the extremism instilled by Daesh. Our wish is to help people stay there. But since we are known in all these communities, it is true that we have received a lot of requests: "My family is still in Aleppo or Qamishli in Syria. Is there no way to get her here?" My answer, and that of our group, was: "No, we help Christians stay there, and we are not going to return to Belgium." When the Presidency asked me if I could testify, I responded positively because even if we are not involved, or our goal is not to bring people out there, I wanted to come here to testify and answer your questions, out of transparency and clarity. I don't know if I have to add anything yet or if I answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u3	Thank you. Please note a number of items if there are questions or interventions, then you can answer afterwards. I shall now give the floor to all the members of the committee who wish to speak, and you can then give a global answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u4	Thank you for your testimony. I just have a brief question for you, of course you have a network. Have you ever been aware of the abuse and fraud of humanitarian visas that has been on the table? You've read the papers and you know what went wrong. Have you ever heard of that? Secondly, you say that your main purpose is to keep people on the ground in the best possible conditions. So your organisation did not participate in that large collective rescue operation through humanitarian visas. What's the reason for that? Don't you have the capacity for that? Do you have any objections to that kind of surgery?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u5	Mr Najm, I will begin by joining my colleague's thanks for your testimony, which I feel comes from the bottom of my heart. You tell us that you have sometimes been solicited by some people who, legitimately, were concerned about their family members in conflict zones. Have you been contacted by the Secretary of State, Mr. Franken, someone who would have been delegated by him or intermediaries to propose that you create a humanitarian corridor to get people out of this hell? In addition, you know the scandal that brings us together today, and you are a recognized person in your community. Would you have heard of rumours that it was possible, in exchange for a large sum of money, to obtain humanitarian visas via a privileged channel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u6	I would also like to thank you for your explanation. First of all, I would like to say that we greatly appreciate what you have done in the region. You have also helped people on the ground by providing humanitarian aid. That's very handsome! These hearings are actually organised in the context of the use and misuse of humanitarian visas. My question is therefore to what extent you were aware of the possibility of applying for humanitarian visas. Did you refuse to do so, or are there people who have shown you the right way? How did you direct these people? Did you refer them to the diplomatic post? Or did you tell them there were possibilities through rescue operations to our country? We heard two testimonies yesterday. Two times, about 250 people were brought to our country. Then there were another 150 people. On the one hand, there is the possibility of a humanitarian rescue operation. On the other hand, people may apply for a humanitarian visa individually at our diplomatic post. They are likely to receive a positive response to such an individual application, but this is not a certainty. Did you deliberately never use it? Have you even referred the people? Did you know about normal roads without abuse? Have you heard from people who helped you on the spot that systems were also being set up that involved fraud and paid for a visa to come to Belgium? Did you know that? Have you ever received such questions? Have you ever been in contact with the Foreign Affairs Office in Belgium, our foreign embassy or the cabinet of the former Secretary of State Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u7	Mr President, I congratulate Dr Najm on his work, on his fight. I stress that, contrary to what can sometimes be heard, the solution is not to empty the Middle East and the Middle East from Christian communities. Many Christians seek to stay there and do not want to be uprooted. While there are exceptional situations that deserve relief and possibly humanitarian reception through the humanitarian visa system, most of the time many other means of action are indispensable. The aid that Dr Najm provides today does not benefit from the support of the Belgian government. Although there has been ad hoc assistance at the outset, the latter is therefore very absent in these areas to assist those who are displaced and yet deserve our full support in terms of reconstruction and protection. Mr Najm, what is your knowledge of trafficking in humanitarian visas? Was that known? Did this concern the French-speaking part of the country? Have you been in contact with Melikan Kucam? What do you know about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u8	Thank you, Mr Najm, for your explanation. I have a question about Syrian Christians. Research shows that Syrian Christians are much less likely to register as refugees with UN organisations. It's very rare. That is perhaps why the United Nations underestimates the problem. Do you see the reasons why Syrian Christians are less fleeing or less officially registering as refugees?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u9	Doctor, thank you for your statement, too. I do not know if you have followed the debates in recent days, but there was much to do about the vulnerability criterion and the fact that the Secretary of State insisted that a humanitarian visa should be given mainly to Christians. I heard you talking about the Jezidis earlier. You have pointed out their great vulnerability. When we talk about the vulnerability of refugees, is religion a relevant criterion in your opinion? When we talk about vulnerability, can we consider religion to be a relevant criterion? Are Eastern Christians really more vulnerable than other religious minorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u10	Mr President, I join my colleagues in thanking Mr Najm for his presentation from the heart. I won't ask questions. There is a sufficient number that join more or less all of them. Mr Najm, I would like to congratulate you on your action on the ground, which is truly humanitarian and not easy. You're making sure we don't add a problem to another problem to people already living in difficult times. You work so they can stay at home, on their land. For having travelled to Aleppo and having met with all the representatives of the cults, I can tell you that they said that it was there that they needed to be helped, that the international community had to act. They said that the young people who were Syrians or pretended to be Syrians to leave the war were young people who wanted to leave for a long time. But their diet often did not allow them to leave their homes. They therefore took advantage of the possibility of leaving the country for war and humanitarian reasons, but it was, in fact, immigration. I am delighted, Mr Najm, that your work deserves our full support because it is there that we must help people. It is not by expatriating them here that we are going to solve the problem. Some people are aware of this, but I do not think it is the right solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u11	Anyone else want to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u12	Mr Najm, I can only agree with the other speakers: you are pursuing a very humanitarian and noble objective with your work and you are doing so. Following on from what the last speaker said, I think that reception in the region or in its own country, if possible of course, is very important. It ensures that Christians are not displaced and should not flee. We have the same vision and, to the extent possible, that should be the intention. You are aware of the wider framework and structure of the committee. You may also know that a humanitarian corridor was set up by our government, giving humanitarian visas to mainly Syrian Christians. I suspect that you, from your organization, were in contact with several other organizations. Yesterday we received the Saint-Egidius community. I'm guessing that organization isn't weird to you. Did you have good contacts and working arrangements with those organizations? Did you also know their purpose and effect and did you know that way of working with lists of people? We have already learned from the hearings over the last few days that it was mainly Syrian Christians who already had relatives here. Because of the family connection, they were then chosen to send them with a humanitarian visa to Belgium. Did you know these organizations and their operation? Did you know how they worked?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u13	Mr Najm, I would like to join the thanks expressed by all my colleagues for your testimony and for the work that you allow us to do on the spot with regard to reception. This is certainly essential, as the path of humanitarian visas is also, I think, in situations of conflict and extreme urgency. I hear you go to the field often, you or representatives of your Committee. Have you, in particular, received requests from Syrian Christians who wanted to leave one region or another, one camp or another? Is this notable compared to others such as the Yezidis you mentioned, for example? On the other hand, I imagine you have functional networks to successfully deliver help. In this context, has one or the other collaboration been established either with Sant'Egidio, who organised two repatriations of Syrian groups or with Mr Franken's cabinet? Yesterday, we learned from the ambassador that once the humanitarian visa and authorization are granted, the embassy must invite those who will receive the visa to present themselves to her, Lebanon in this case. So I was wondering how Mr. Franken's office was passing on this invitation to go to the embassy. Through your networks, have you been able to help with the transmission of this information? Finally, have you heard of the rumours about Mr Kucam and the drifts in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u14	Mr Najm, like my colleagues, I thank you for the work you have done and have delivered to us this afternoon. We talked a lot about the vulnerability criteria. In general, I would like to know whether, in addition to these vulnerability criteria, you see other criteria that should be taken into account in the processing of these humanitarian visas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u15	Are there any further questions? No one? Then I give the floor to Mr Najm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I'll add two or three elements before I answer them. In our group, we are about 40; we are all volunteers. We pay out of our pocket every trip we make there. We have no operating costs. All the donations we receive are used to support our projects there. Here's a first remark. Secondly, it is true that the projects we support there are carried out in a rather Christian area, but they are open to everyone. Many Yezidis come to our centers, and some Muslims also. Our goal is to help Christians, but we are open to all individuals and families in difficulty. To answer your questions, I said I had requests. Indeed, a lot of people came to see me at Mass, or in Brussels on Sunday at 11:30 a.m., or at the Saint-Charbel monastery in Bois-Seigneur-Isaac, next to Braine-l'Alleud. People came and asked me to bring in people they knew, or their families, or neighbours, or acquaintances, because the situation was dramatic in Syria. My answer was always the same. I answered with a real pinch to my heart that I was sorry, but that our mission in this group was not to bring people out there. "I don't take care of it." And I didn't take care of it. I have never asked anyone, including the cabinet, to bring a family or a person from Syria or Iraq. So, no, I never asked for a policy to bring in a family. Indeed, our social goal, our wish, is to help them stay there. On the other hand, the people who came to ask us for help, because their family was there and wanted to stay, but those people didn't have fuel oil to heat up, we helped them. We are not carrying things from Belgium; this is over. On the other hand, we have financial resources that we make available to families, through parishes, priests and local NGOs, while monitoring all this. For remember that we are in the East, where poverty sometimes causes people to cheat or have profits for them or their families. Our trips were first to see the situation and live with these families on the spot, but also to see if the financial support they received was being used properly. I always ask for a report or information every three months so that the financial aid can be delivered. You never give the money in one block, the aid is spread out in small amounts, for a well-defined project. Regarding humanitarian corridors, yes, I know Sant'Egidio, I receive from time to time an invitation for an event, a demonstration, a presence. But I never had a meeting with the officials of Sant'Egidio. I don't know them. We insist on saying we're sorry. I understand families who want to leave, I understand the suffering of families who are under bombardment, who have lost their homes, who want to leave, whether they are poor or rich. There's no difference: when you don't have a house, you don't have a factory, you get poor overnight. I'm really sorry about these families. It's not me, it's the international community. She has to take care of her decisions. I am not going to go back to the bottom of politics, the presence of the Syrian regime today, which should be done. I don't want to get into these discussions. The international community is responsible. Europe has no army, Europe does not weigh on the military, Europe is really humanitarian aid. But perhaps we could have done better with these people before we came to this humanitarian disaster problem, whether in Iraq or Syria. And if we don't do anything, it's gonna be Lebanon's turn. I will not go into the details of Lebanon either, with the presence of armed militias who dictate their law. If Europe does not move and intervene, you will have a lot of refugees in Europe. Belgian and European policy must really be reviewed to avoid this flow of refugees and wars. The question of whether Syrian Christians do not register through the United Nations is a relevant question. Indeed, they don't register. In preparing for my visit, I wanted to inquire from safe sources. I therefore put the question to the Lebanese Minister of Social Affairs. He replied that there was not a single Syrian refugee in the camps in Lebanon, for the simple reason that Christians refused to go to camps in Lebanon. They are all housed in monasteries and churches or rent small apartments. For them, Lebanon is only a stage before a definitive departure. In other words, Syrian or Iraqi Christians in Lebanon seek to leave. They are waiting for a visa for Canada, the United States or other countries. So there are no refugees in the camps. I now turn to the criteria of vulnerability. Personally, I am Christian and practicing, but I am someone who likes to live in harmony with Muslims, Jews, lay people, etc. I arrived in Belgium at the age of 18. I am Belgian, I share your values of democracy, but for a politician to appear as a Christian, it really takes a miracle. Why does a Christian not dare to assert himself as a Christian? Similarly, a Jew must be able to assert himself as a Jew, a layman must be able to dare say that he does not believe, etc. We are in democracy! True, Christians have been suffering enormously in the region for decades, and their numbers are decreasing. In 2003, during Saddam Hussein's time (dictator or not), before the Iraqi and American invasions in Iraq, there were 1.5 million Christians in Iraq. Today, how many Christians remain in Iraq? If we want to be positive, I'd say 250,000 or 300,000, but that's not true. A member of the CSCO has just returned from the Nineveh region in Iraq. He says there's 150,000. We have struggled; we have asked international organizations, such as Aid to the Church in Distress (AED) and other American associations, to help us bring families back. Today, 6,000 families have returned to Teleskuf. But the rest? There are a lot of problems. A political problem persists in the Nineveh plain: the lack of understanding between the Hashd al-Shaabi, the Iranian militia, and the Kurds, between the Kurds and the Iraqi government over the delimitation of territory. The problem is not solved and Christians are not safe. There are always pressures, persecutions. This political problem weighs heavily on the situation. Moreover, the Iraqi state does not want to invest a dollar in Christian areas in Iraq. Goddamn it! They are human beings like Muslims and Shiites! How does the Iraqi government respond to Christian demands? "Congratulate Europe" because, for them, Europe is Christian, even if it is not, and for them, Christians on the spot are in the image of you, of European values, of Europe's history. Yes, Christians are the most vulnerable. A Christian who leaves his country, whether Iraq or Syria, no longer returns. It's over! When he comes to Belgium, France and Europe, he tastes the values of democracy, the value of being able to practice his belief freely. He doesn't want to go back there anymore. On the other hand, a Muslim who leaves his region because of Daesh, for example, he returns on the day that Daesh left. By the way, they all came back and got along. So yes, the religious criterion is decisive. Christians are much more vulnerable than others. It is also important to know that if Sunnis and Shiites fight, they start typing Christians. Apologies are good for persecuting Christians and pushing them to slam their homes and leave. But imagine for a moment an Orient without these Christians. Imagine that there are no more Christians in Iraq or Syria. The East will be handed over to intolerance and extremism. And then it will be Europe's turn. The extremists are going to grow here. Some of them were born here. I don't have to tell you. All right. So yes, they're vulnerable. Did I know about humanitarian visas? Yes, I knew that some people or priests designated families. But I never got involved. It's not my job. To bring people from Syria or Iraq to Belgium, there is a government, there is a state that assumes it. I would say more, at one of our meetings of the CSCO Board of Directors, someone said that we had to help those who were there. We have all refused, except to help them financially. That, yes, we did. If they need furniture, we find them. Most of them do not understand French. If they need administrative help, we're here. If Belgium has decided to bring them in, it may be right. I don't throw stones at those who asked to come or those who helped them get out. Who am I to tell such a family that she must stay in Aleppo, under the bombardments? If these people want to leave, let them leave but without my support or my help.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u17	Sir, if you may, you say you've been aware of the humanitarian corridors, but the question was whether you knew the rumours of fraud or corruption in the organisation of these corridors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u18	No, I've never heard of fraud or payment. You have to let justice do its job, but if the facts are proven, I find it really disgusting to take advantage of the weakness of people, families who are diminished and physically and psychologically harmed. In addition to all this, we steal them. It's disgusting! It's disgusting! Let justice do its job! Mr Dallemagne has touched on a very important point. If my information is correct, a Minister for Cooperation will soon visit Iraqi Kurdistan. It is a pity that Belgium has to finance projects in the region through international associations and not through small associations like us, volunteers and who go to the field. Local populations could be helped more effectively and, above all, they could be helped to stay at home. I don't know if I answered all the questions. Don't hesitate if I've forgotten!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u19	Anybody got any additional questions? Do all the answers meet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u20	Thank you for your answer to the question of vulnerability. You respond very convincingly and point out that the Christians are vulnerable there. You also say at some point that the reaction in the Middle East is to look at Europe, which is Christian. You have quite rightly added that Europe is not really anymore. I fully agree with you, but of course it is true that humanitarian corridors were opened just before those Syrian Christians. In a way, the picture that we have in the Middle East is still valid. My question was about religious minorities, because there are other minorities. You spoke at some point in your speech about the Jezidis and said that they were also particularly vulnerable. If I remember correctly, you even said that they were more vulnerable than the Christians. Such a group cannot, of course, count on a Europe of interest. What I abstained from yesterday's statements by Mr Geleyn and Mr Sant'Egidio is correct. I share your belief that Europe is no longer Christian. However, there are still a lot of Christian organisations active in Europe that are worried about Christians and taking initiatives for them. What happens to those other groups? What is the situation of the Jezidis, who do not have the same or less sympathy here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u21	I agree with you. When I was in the area in 2015, we visited Yezidi and Christian camps. It was lamentable. I add that it is true that the Christian families who have arrived, I meet them at Mass. They thank Belgium, they thank the government that took them out of there. They're people who're going to fit in. There has never been a problem with Christian families who came after the Lebanon war or now. They are people who thank Belgium for helping them. Taking them out wasn't my mission. If they were to come here, it's not through our association. I hope that Belgium will be able to help our association do its job there. The money that Belgium gives to the United Nations through the Ministry of Cooperation, it is diluted, it is not visible. We can't see it's Belgium. On the other hand, there are other European countries that support a very specific and clear project and we will say: "Belgium has made this project". This project should not be done for Christians. We can choose a city in Iraq where there are Muslim Arabs, Sunnis, Shiites, Christians, Yezidis or Shabak. For example, Batnaya is a city that can bring together different ethnic groups. I do not ask for help only from Christians, I ask that Christians be considered as any other human being. That is above all my conclusion. Belgium can be visible by supporting a clear project that serves the communities there and helps them live together again. To wash the brains of some Sunni people who fought with Daesh, it takes a little more than a year. It may take five years for these people to understand that one can live with others on the same ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u22	No one has any more questions? Then I would like to thank you all for your presence. Thank you, Mr. Najm, for your presence, your speech and your answers to the questions. With that, I can close the sitting and wish everyone a good day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1029x.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
