ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u1	Colleagues, welcome to this Committee for Economics. Since many of the oral questions tabled are the subject of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy, we can organise a topical debate on this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the same rules apply to the topical and urgent debate as to the oral questions, namely two minutes' speaking time for the question, five minutes for the Minister's reply and one minute for the reply. Given the number of questions, I will show some leniency before the answer time, but the answer is not intended to take half an hour. In this way we can organise a quality debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the fuss about Thomas Cook Belgium, the Guarantee Fund has always informed travellers that they will be reimbursed for their travel expenses. Rather, the problem was that the additional costs incurred by passengers on the spot might not be reimbursed. On Thursday 3 October, I questioned you in plenary about Thomas Cook's money. You replied: "Since some travellers had to pay on the spot, even though their hotel was paid, we know those stories, the Guarantee Fund will examine whether the amounts can be deducted from the fees still to be paid to the hotels concerned." On 7 October, we read in the newspaper that the Guarantee Fund Travel will not repay everything. It only pays back the amounts contained in the flight and stay package, but that is much less than what was originally announced. Thus, not only the additional costs incurred will not be reimbursed, but also the costs that were previously insured may not be reimbursed. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. It is important to be clear at last to passengers about what will or will not be repaid. Is it possible to shed some light on this issue today? The Guarantee Fund Travel first communicated that 100 % of the trip would be refunded. Now, apparently, that is not the case. Is it possible that the entire trip will be refunded? Finally, Madam Secretary, will travellers who have incurred additional costs on the spot due to Thomas Cook's bankruptcy see their money reimbursed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, my first question dates back to 7 October 2019. A number of points in my question will probably have already been clarified. In short, however, I agree with the previous questioner. I am asking for clarity as to what costs will or will not be reimbursed. On 7 October 2019 there was some uncertainty about this. Can you give us an update now? Can you also clarify the operation of the Guarantee Fund Travel? During an earlier debate in this committee, we argued in favour of increasing the number of staff in the Guarantee Fund Travel so that the files could be resolved quickly. Can you explain how many staff are currently employed? What's the status? How many claims have been filed? How will processing take place? In this way, we want to give those concerned a perspective and let them know when they will actually get their money back. Meanwhile, the news has also come from a takeover of a certain part of the Thomas Cook stores, namely 62 of the 91 stores. The stores that are preserved are now open, especially on 21 October 2019, which in itself is good news. Nevertheless, there is some confusion among travellers. After all, all planned trips with Thomas Cook were cancelled, but a number of travellers received their travel documents. That, of course, leads to confusion. They wonder whether or not their journey should continue. Can you explain why these travelers were sent those documents? What can they do best with that? Can you give us some clarification on that? Can you explain the consequences of the acquisition by the Spanish Wamos? How many claims have already been filed with the Travel Guarantee Fund? How is the further settlement going? It would be very useful to know the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u4	Mr President, Minister, my question is roughly in line with Mr Depraetere's question. Contrary to previous reports, it was indeed announced that the full sum would not be reimbursed but only the costs included in the package journey. For 80% of the dossiers, this would not be a problem, but 20% of the dossiers would be regarded as complex, as you yourself said in plenary. There was still no clarity on those files. In concrete terms, this is a debate on the broad or narrow interpretation of existing legislation. The consumer organisation Test-Achats clearly hopes for a broad interpretation of the law, so that the additional costs are also eligible for reimbursement. According to the law, insurance against insolvency also has to cover the reasonably foreseeable costs, for example the fact that one has to take a taxi to the airport. Thus, if legislation is interpreted broadly, such costs could be eligible. What is the motivation of the Guarantee Fund Traveling to interpret the law closely? What amount are we talking about? It's about 20% of the trips. What amount would the Guarantee Fund not cover in the event of a narrow interpretation of the law?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u5	Mr President, Minister, we have already had a number of discussions in this committee on the resolution of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy. In addition, I would like to ask a number of questions, both regarding bankruptcy and the acquisition of the Neckermann stores by Wamos. Like the previous speakers, I would have liked to have seen a state of play in the pending claims. How many claims have already been made and how many have been dealt with? Initially it was said that the intention was to first ensure that as many travellers as possible could be repatriated and then later deal with the financial side of the story. When will payments be made? TUI has looked at it well in the run-up to bankruptcy. They have offered the consumer to deduct the amount already paid to Neckermann-Thomas Cook in the case of new bookings. This means that they would themselves submit a claim to the Guarantee Fund, subject to their power of attorney. How many files were specifically submitted by TUI? In the past, it was also said that the Guarantee Fund would increase its capacity to ensure that all files could be handled smoothly. Has that already been done? Is there sufficient staff available for this? In addition, it was also said that all trips would be cancelled. Nevertheless, in recent weeks, there were specific target groups among the travelers who had booked a cruise or for whom the accommodation was already paid in full by Thomas Cook who were still sent vouchers to start their journey. This led to a lot of confusion among travellers. How can this communication be explained? At first, something else was said. My next question is about the expenses paid by the Guarantee Fund Travel. The law provides that the reasonably foreseeable costs should be paid out. Is this interpretation sufficiently broad to guarantee maximum compensation to consumers? My final question concerns the acquisition by Wamos of part of Thomas Cook's activities and staff. Thomas Cook was an important player on the Belgian market. Has the whole tumult of recent weeks about the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook and the acquisition by Wamos led to an increase in prices in the travel sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u6	Minister, the Travel Guarantee Fund has opened more than 1,000 victim files. Some of them are in possession of gift certificates. According to the Guarantee Fund, only activated cheques can be refunded. Many travellers who were victims of the Thomas Cook case incurred additional expenses to cover themselves against unforeseen circumstances, for example by taking cancellation insurance. Others had also already booked their transportation to and from the airport or had already paid a down payment for the rental of a vehicle to their travel agency. Minister, these are my questions. How do you justify that people whose Thomas Cook gift voucher had already been exchanged for a trip are now entitled to a refund, while those whose gift voucher has not yet been activated are not entitled to any form of compensation? Do you know how many customers are affected by this situation? In addition, how do you explain that travellers who had protected themselves against a financial loss by contracting cancellation insurance must now, despite everything, suffer one? Since the Travel Guarantee Fund does not wish to reimburse this insurance, should we not instead ensure that those concerned are actually compensated by it? Finally, can the Fund still reimburse the costs incurred by Thomas Cook's victims, such as car rental? Moreover, these fees have often been taken over by the same Thomas Cook agencies. If this is not the case, should consumer protection not be extended to cover such expenditure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both my predecessor, myself and the Guarantee Fund Travel seek to provide as much clarity as possible for the affected travellers. The legal framework providing for the mandatory guarantee in case of financial inability of travel companies can be found in the Law of 21 November 2017 on the sale of package travel, linked travel arrangements and travel services. The former Law of 16 February 1994 regulating the contract of travel organisation and travel agency contained the same obligation. These laws have been adopted in order to ensure the transposition of European directives. Indeed, the provisions of the law on this guarantee also provide for the foreseeable costs to be covered as a result of the financial inability. The main purpose of these provisions is to specify that cover must be sufficient and that the guarantor must bear the additional costs caused, for example, by compulsory repatriation or an extended stay pending repatriation. The Royal Decree of 29 May 2018 implements the Law of 2017 and provides that the guarantee must be provided through an insurance contract. The decision shall also specify what the guarantees provided are. Where a planned package journey cannot continue for reasons of financial inability of the travel undertaking, the amounts already paid by the traveller to the travel undertaking shall be refunded. Where certain travel services included in the package journey could not be provided due to the financial inability, they will also be reimbursed. Before reimbursement is made, the insurer, in the present case the Guarantee Fund Travel, will check, inter alia, whether the sums recovered by the traveller relate effectively to travel services included in the package travel agreement and whether the travel undertaking affected by the financial inability has also effectively received the funds paid by the traveller. The latter may be the case, for example, if the traveller had booked a package trip from the tour operator Thomas Cook with an independent travel agency that had not yet paid the payment of the trip to the tour operator. Since each dossier has to be examined separately, it is not possible to say today in absolute terms that each amount recovered will be repaid in full. However, it is certain that there will be a full refund if the benefits and the amounts paid are covered by the insurance contract. No costs or similar charges may be charged to the traveller for the handling of the claims file. Payments to hoteliers who have made travellers on the spot are normally outside the package travel agreement and are, in principle, not covered by the insurance. However, the Guarantee Fund shall examine whether it is legally possible to set these amounts against the fees payable to the hoteliers concerned for the services they have provided after the financial inability was established. Today there is still no clarity about that. In fact, this morning my administration and my cabinet are sitting together to see how we can quickly clarify this. Travel services purchased by the traveller himself outside the package travel agreement, where, for example, the traveller has rented a car directly from a car rental company or has purchased tickets for events or museums himself, are excluded from the insurance cover for financial inability. This has already been clarified during the topical debate with my predecessor. I myself have also confirmed this in greater detail in Parliament. The information provided by the FPS Economy also clarifies that the costs incurred outside the travel contract are not reimbursed by passengers. Under the legislation, personal expenses outside the package travel contract are not covered by insolvency insurance. Unactivated gift certificates are a means of payment and do not constitute a package travel contract. Therefore, they are no longer covered by insolvency insurance. Holders of such cheques must lodge a claim with the trustee of the bankruptcy. I have no indication of the number of people affected. The reasonable foreseeable costs laid down in the law do not refer to the passenger's personal expenses, unless they arise from a deficiency of the guarantor. Let me give you an example: the package travel includes the transport from the hotel to the airport, but the guarantor did not arrange that transport in the context of early repatriation, so that the traveller had to arrange and pay the journey to the airport himself. If he submits the evidence to the Guarantee Fund for this, I assume that these costs will also be reimbursed. I was also confirmed by the Guarantee Fund. However, it is worth reminding you of the general principle of the obligation to limit damage, so it is not necessary to impose unreasonable costs. In my view, therefore, there is no narrow interpretation of the law. Of course, there has to be a correct application. I'll watch that happen, too. There were a lot of questions about what expenditure is being paid back or not. We do not have a clear picture of it today, because we do not yet have a look at the number of dossiers. That will not be possible until all the files have been processed. The Guarantee Fund has confirmed to me that there is a great deal of work being done on the team that will start handling it. That will happen in the short term. Last Monday, only 22,000 claims had been filed. According to the tables received by the Guarantee Fund from the curators, around 81,000 planned package trips could not be carried out. This means that we expect about 60,000 files. People have the time to submit their files and often do so through an independent travel agency, which helps to do so. It is, of course, very difficult to communicate now about possible reimbursement, as we are still not aware today of 60,000 files, which still have to be submitted. The Guarantee Fund accepts for all travel agencies, including those of TUI, that they assist affected travellers who have not yet filed a claim to do so and work through subrogation. Last Monday, 1,200 such claims had already been submitted through TUI and about 100 through other travel agencies. That's not unimportant either. The Guarantee Fund accepts this measure for practical reasons to allow affected travellers to book their journey quickly and easily. The Guarantee Fund will make every effort to deal with the dossiers within a reasonable period of time. The manager of the team that will handle the claims has been appointed. Last Monday, ten people had already been recruited for that team, all from Thomas Cook, which is a good thing, because that means that the team members fully know the files and take their experience with them. The aim is to extend the team to about 15 members in the next few days. Besides, I was told that as soon as possible, already in a few weeks, the ut payments start in the first files. All booked trips with the bankrupt travel organization Thomas Cook were cancelled by the curators. However, some travel agencies of the group could also book package trips from other tour operators, for example from Expedia, on which we are also asked questions. The package tours of other organisers are not affected by the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook, so that those trips can simply take place. The acquisition of a number of travel agencies does not change that, unless the purchaser Wamos decided to set up some commercial action for the travellers affected by the bankruptcy, which we have so far had no vision of. What does that mean for prices on the market? Well, tour operators determine their pre-season prices. It is therefore too early to rule on any impact of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy on the price level. Only in the coming weeks will the catalogues be published for the next summer, in which the pricing will have taken place. However, I share the concern. In this sense, I have instructed the Price Observatory to monitor the prices of the package travel so that we can see them and we can intervene if there are any negative effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I understand that there is still little clarity for a group of travellers about the reimbursement. I understand that each file needs to be examined separately, which is very time-snatching. Can you give any estimate of how long it will take to examine all the files? I understand that there are still a lot of complaints to be made, but is that a matter of weeks or months? I understand that travellers cannot be reimbursed for additional costs such as museum tickets or renting a car. Additional costs, however, are mainly about double payment of the hotel. It cannot be the intention for travellers to pay twice for their hotel, especially if it turns out that Thomas Cook's Belgian leg bears a great responsibility and has made serious mistakes which have led to bankruptcy. His responsibility is very great. It would be a pity if the traveller were to suffer. I would urge you to find a solution for this group of travellers as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I also understand that there is still uncertainty about the reimbursement or not of certain costs. I understand that each dossier needs to be looked at separately. I think that a tailor-made approach, which does not match all the dossiers, is valuable. I hope that, as soon as there is clarity about the costs, it will be properly communicated to the traveller and that the information will be placed on the various websites so that the travellers know where they stand. However, I am shocked by the low number of claims that have been filed, 22,000. Another 81 000 are expected. I expected people to file a claim sooner. After all, it is about a lot of money. I think we need to figure out why this is taking so long. Is that out of ignorance? Is the procedure too difficult? We must ensure that travellers are properly supervised in making the claim. If there are any tools left to help them in this, I would certainly make them available. Finally, I am pleased that the Guarantee Fund was strengthened with a manager and 10 employees, especially because they are employees who know the sector, former Thomas Cook staff. This will certainly improve the efficiency of the operation and it is therefore a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. I will not repeat the additional questions raised by my fellow Members. However, I would like to mention the great difference between the claims already made and those to be expected. Perhaps it would be useful to ask the people who have already filed a claim if they have easily found how they could do so. This will enable lessons to be learned. Are travellers who have not yet filed a claim, knowing clearly who they are, themselves contacted by the Guarantee Fund? For example, will they receive an e-mail containing the procedure to be followed? With the current technological possibilities, this must be an option.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. Indeed, the 22,000 claims are not yet a very large number, but perhaps it will be easier for the Guarantee Fund if they come in spread out. The work does not accumulate and the 22,000 files can be dealt with and paid out quickly. It is a good thing that the team of 15 people from the Guarantee Fund counts a lot of former employees of Thomas Cook. They can act with knowledge, which can only speed up the handling of the files. I am also pleased that you have asked the Price Observatory to monitor the prices, especially for the next season. That is absolutely a useful action. The only thing we are left with is that travellers who were taken hostage in their hotel and eventually switched hands and paid to return home will see little of that money back. That's too bad. I understand, but it is ultimately a question of costs incurred by those involved as a result of the great chaos at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you. If I understand correctly, those who hold a travel check don't get anything. You explain that they must address the curator. In this case, can the Guarantee Fund or can the state take care of these steps, so that these people – already weakened, because they have lost thousands of euros – do not find themselves alone? They should therefore be monitored and accompanied. In addition, the Fund could reimburse a possible car rental. That said, you didn't tell me if he was going to take over the cancellation insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u13	Mr President, briefly. There are a lot of concerns about extra costs, and I understand that. I also understand that you will have another question about what happens if people have paid with a credit card, Mr Van Hecke. Insurance is often linked to that. Two consultations have already been held and a new consultation is taking place this morning. There too, we want to know very clearly what is going on with the insurer. If you pay something with a Visa card, the opposite party must be able to prove that this would have happened unlawfully. In that sense, we hope to be able to find solutions for many people there. We are in this together with Febelfin, the banks and the Guarantee Fund. I hope for clarity soon, because that is important. Often it's about extra costs for people who were 'hostaged' in their hotel and couldn't leave. That's why we're sitting around the table again this morning, for the third time in three weeks. We keep the pressure high to find solutions, which we want to communicate to the travellers as well and as quickly as possible. Why are there only 20,000 claims left? One has two years to file a claim. We ourselves find the web application quite easy to use: one fills in his data and has to send the evidence. Today I think it is too early to look for the reason for the number of claims. People have two years and today we are only a few weeks away. We're also wondering what the buyer's gonna do. It is known that one can also go to TUI via subrogation. You should also know that a lot of travel would not go on until 2020. People paid an advance for next year's trip. Are we perhaps waiting to see what can be done with that advance, or can we still transfer it? That can play a part. The people of the Guarantee Fund are fully paying back files and are committed, which is important. If we find at the end of the year that a lot of files have not been filled in, then we need to see how we can activate and motivate people to submit their files as soon as possible. I understand your concern about the gift voucher, but a gift voucher is not covered by the legislation package travel, so the Guarantee Fund cannot intervene in that. That means that anyone who has a gift certificate should be in line with the creditors. You ask if there is nothing the government can do, but then any creditor who is also in that queue, any supplier of a service, whether it is food, catering, etc., would ask why we do so for the travellers and not for them. In this sense, we cannot intervene and we must leave things as they are. I fully understand the many people for whom this is a painful matter, but I think that today they do not have much more to stand in line than as creditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u14	Madam Secretary, Test Purchase filed a complaint against Novartis and Roche. The collection counted more than 40 pages and is well-founded. He was delivered to the BMA and is still there five years later. On Monday we were given the opportunity to hear the BMA and Test Purchase in this committee. It was a very interesting hearing, but the conclusion remains: very little has happened at the BMA. They themselves made several explanations for this, but I would like to hear from you how it is that after five years the BMA has examined this dossier very little. On my second question, I have already received an answer from the BMA. For ten years, the ophthalmologist syndicate has been trying to convince the Belgian government that the cheaper medicine Avastin is an equally valuable choice for treating age blindness as Lucentis. Why hasn't that ever been addressed? I come to my second question, about the searches. The BMA invaded several pharmaceutical companies in Belgium on Thursday 8 October, for a very different file. The pharmaceutical companies are suspected of countering competition in the market for biosimilary medicines. Companies would restrict, delay or impede access to the market for certain medicinal products for competitors. Madam Secretary, on what file have there been searches? What further steps are being taken? How many complaints about these practices were submitted to the BMA? What actions will still be held in similar files?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I think it is important to clarify once again, even if it was made clear on Monday by the representatives of the BMA at the hearing that this body is not under my hierarchical authority as Minister of Economy. Criminally, the BMA is an independent, administrative institution whose staff are subject to criminally sanctioned professional secrecy. I have a lot of questions here today that I simply cannot answer because I do not have that information and I should not have it. Staff shall keep their professional secrecy in the performance of their duties. The Statute also stems directly from European legislation which lays down the requirements to be met by national competition authorities. There were also questions about the file in which searches were carried out in the context of biosimular medicines. I've heard this news as you have through the press release of the BMA. Meanwhile, both the pharmaceutical company Roche and the UZGent have confirmed that a search has taken place in their offices. Several other hospitals have received requests for information. The Belgian Competition Authority has already received several complaints on this issue. Given the secret of the investigation, I cannot provide any information, especially because I do not have that information. On 26 September 2019, my predecessor addressed a letter to the BMA asking if there was any particular reason why this file, which was already brought before the Court on 2 December 2014, was not formalised. On the basis of the reply of the Hearing Officer General of 27 September 2019 and taking into account the strict requirements of professional secrecy and confidentiality, I can confirm the following. If it is right, Mr President, I will also give you the answer, so that you are also aware of all the information I have. Then perhaps you can deliver it to the committee members so that everyone gets the information. The file was opened following a complaint from Test Purchase. The consumer organisation had spoken in the press about the subject before contacting the auditorate of the BMA, thus losing the surprise effect on businesses. The BMA said the same thing on Monday. I can confirm that there have been several contacts between the auditorate of the BMA and Novartis and Roche. Both companies have received, inter alia, compelling requests for information. The Italian and French authorities have indeed examined the same dossier, but the regulatory framework and context in which the suspected infringements occur vary considerably between those two countries and Belgium. This explains why the results of the investigation carried out by the authorities of these two countries are of limited use to the Belgian file. Moreover, the French file is still pending. In competition law, investigations often take several years, both at the level of national authorities and at the level of the European Commission. The duration of an investigation also depends on a number of factors, including the quality of the existing evidence, the complexity of the finding of the existing infringements, the cooperation of the undertakings prosecuted and the existence or absence of consistency with the investigations carried out by other authorities. The number of staff that the auditor-general can assign to a file also has an impact on duration. I will give you my answer in all transparency, as I said. Like you, I believe that a five-year deadline is to finalize an investigation, but there may be good reasons why the investigation is still ongoing. It would be too easy for me as a minister to say that the BMA would have failed in the file. I'm sure the BMA will do what she can. However, an administrative court must take a decision on the basis of concrete evidence in a file and not merely on the basis of press reports. You also had questions about the ophthalmologists. These are medical questions about reimbursement and application for certain pathologies. I can't answer that. I also refer to the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand that you cannot say anything about the investigation, but perhaps it is up to this committee to talk about the operation of the BMA. We see a lot of problems there. You say the BMA does what it can. I'm sure it is. They must also choose their priorities, but on Monday it became very clear that there is not enough expertise to investigate such dossiers. That's a problem, isn't it? We may ask whether the BMA is the right body to conduct such investigations and, above all, whether there is no possibility of better cooperation with other institutions such as social security or Minister De Block's cabinet. Maybe the government can make more use of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u17	Very briefly about the BMA. We have recently given a great deal of extra resources to the BMA, including 10 to 15 extra staff, but we simply cannot fill in the profiles today. We're with them trying to figure out how to find people in other ways. These are lawyers' competition law and they are very much sought after today by large law firms. It's not that obvious. We're investigating with them whether there are any other ways to recruit people more quickly. The budget is available to recruit 10 to 15 people extra. Finding this fill-in is therefore very important if the files are to be completed more quickly. It is also up to them to ensure that those people are operational as soon as possible in order to be able to do those things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u18	Madam Minister, I understand that it is not obvious to find those profiles, as was said here on Monday by the BMA. However, I insist that there may be opportunities for better cooperation with other public services that have more expertise. Maybe there's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u19	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 55000766C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u20	Madam Minister, 8,741 companies have already been declared bankrupt in Belgium during the first 9 months of this year. This is an increase of more than 15%. For example, our country is on its way to the second highest number of bankruptcies ever. Due to these bankruptcies, more than 15,000 jobs have been lost in Belgium this year. The increase in the number of bankruptcies is not the only indicator that indicates that large job growth is no longer so self-evident. The European Foundation Eurofound's listing of job losses due to company restructuring shows that this year's picture is becoming increasingly negative. The counter was already at nearly 5,000 at the end of September, compared to 2,800 last year, all over the year 2018. Furthermore, statistics from Statbel and the RVA show that the number of vacancies also decreased between April and June this year. These figures contrast sharply with the mantra of this government 'jobs, jobs, jobs' and with the promised 120,000 additional jobs of the new Flemish government. The economic situation is weakening and the Belgian economy will suffer even more. Then we do not even take the Brexit into account, which can also cause additional job losses. Hence my questions, Madam Secretary. How do you interpret these figures? Where do you see the causes of these bankruptcies? What do you plan to turn the tide? Is this an economic trend that will continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u21	Mr President, Minister, I mentioned it earlier, particularly a few weeks ago when we discussed the rules of procedure here in committee. We note that the longer the economists predict an upcoming recession. I asked for this prediction to be a priority here in committee. Colleagues, economic growth is indeed slowing down in Europe. At the moment, the German economy is even shrinking. Many entrepreneurs today also indicate that they are finding that investment decisions are being postponed. As the previous questioner mentioned earlier, they also note that the number of bankruptcies is higher during the first three quarters of 2019. Colleagues, there are 15.2% more bankruptcies compared to the same period in 2018. In the case of job losses due to bankruptcy, we are talking about an increase of 19.3%. Madam Secretary, I would have liked to hear from you the following. How do you evaluate the signals from many leading economists who point to an upcoming crisis? What economic indicators in our country do you point to as disturbing? What measures is the government currently taking to prevent possible negative economic growth and an economic crisis? Finally, how do you explain the increasing bankruptcy rates?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u22	Mr President, allow me to begin by answering Mr Van Lommel's questions. Indeed, the signals from leading economists point to a possible weakening of the economic situation. At present, the employment growth prospects of the Federal Planning Office and the National Bank of Belgium are still positive. The OECD and the IMF are still predicting a healthy but somewhat moderate growth in employment. The slackening international trade has a significant impact on the euro area and thus on the open Belgian economy. This mainly affects industrial production, but it gradually spreads to the rest of the economy. However, despite the deterioration of the international economic situation and the deterioration of entrepreneurial confidence, business investment is maintained. The current economic environment remains quite conducive to investment. The low interest rates naturally also stimulate housing investment. Sustainable economic growth is one of the government's priorities. As Minister of Economy, I follow this development closely. Measures on competitiveness, the law of 1996, the tax shift, the reform of corporate taxation, the law on manoeuvrable and workable work and the National Strategic Investment Pact are the most striking measures. In addition, I have also taken punctual measures such as adapting innovation deductions to international standards and supporting employment in research and development centres so that Belgium supports permanent employment with respect for the OECD framework. Many important dossiers over the past five years have been focused on this sustainable economic growth. The increase in the number of bankruptcies is not only due to a less favourable economic context. Two major changes in the legislation of recent years have had a clear impact on the number of bankruptcies pronounced by commercial courts. That brings me to Mrs Depraetere's questions. The first amendment is the law of 12 June 2017 on ghost companies, which paid more attention to such companies. This is particularly noticeable in Brussels. In the first 8 months of 2018 there are 77 % more bankruptcies in Brussels than in the first 8 months of 2016. In the first 8 months of 2019, 83 % more bankruptcies were pronounced than in the same period in 2016. A second amendment is the entry into force of book XX of the Economic Law Code of 1 May 2018. This will also enable the liberal professions and non-profit-making associations to be declared bankrupt, which was not the case in the past. For example, in the first 8 months of 2019, compared to the first 8 months of 2018, we notice an increase in the number of bankruptcies of 129 % for the legal activities of lawyers, notaries, bailiffs and 100 % for the activities of doctors and dentists. For the other self-employed in health care, this is 75%. There is also an increase of 141 % in the number of bankruptcies in the creative, art and entertainment sector, in which many non-profit associations are active. Figures on the number of jobs lost should be interpreted with some caution. Job loss is calculated on the basis of the most recent figures available at the time of the opening of the bankruptcy. However, sometimes the liquidator of a bankruptcy considers that the activities of a particular company can be continued, provided that a transferee is found. The number of jobs lost is lower than when the bankruptcy was announced. Of course, the overall economic situation has an impact on the labour market, which I certainly do not want to minimize. At federal level, shocks are absorbed by the unemployment system itself, which acts as an automatic stabiliser, and by systems such as temporary unemployment. The Regions and Communities are also responsible for the support of job seekers. For self-employed persons and entrepreneurs there is the right of bridging, especially in the case of a 'no deal'. We probably don't go there, but we don't know what could happen. There is a chance that we will have new deadlines or borders in the coming months and that there will be a scenario that will have an impact on our economy and on the labour market. We are preparing the worst scenario and looking with the government at how we can cope with these labour market shocks for companies that will suffer a significant turnover loss. We look at systems of temporary reduction of working hours, time credits and so on. We're in the middle of getting this package around, just in case it's necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u23	Madam Secretary, you are slightly nudging the figures. On the one hand I can understand that, but on the other hand we have to look with great interest at the Brexit and its consequences, especially for my province of West Flanders where the impact could be very large. We have had many contacts with a large number of players who will be involved, for example the port of Zeebrugge. We hear from different quarters that the preparations for the possible Brexit in the Netherlands for different aspects are already much further than in our country. For example, it is about attracting businesses, but also about using customs officers. I understand from you that the government is absolutely in the process of preparing, but I hope you will not be late.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that the Planning Bureau says that it is still positive, but I would like to urge everyone to be cautious. The economy is currently very fragile and a spark can be enough to turn everything around. Look how it all started about 10 or 11 years ago. It was not the idea at that time that this crisis would be of such magnitude. You mentioned the investments that are still happening today. This will certainly have to do with the fact that companies will now be able to benefit from the investment deduction for the last financial year. It will disappear next year as part of the reform of corporate taxation. However, I have some concerns with regard to the companies in this country. Perhaps, in view of the indicators for the imminent crisis predicted by many economists, we should still consider maintaining this investment deduction for a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, on October 2, the World Trade Organization (WTO) terminated 15 years of proceedings in the Airbus subsidy case. The WTO has given the United States the green light to overtax European products worth $7.5 billion. A few hours later, the U.S. administration listed a series of products that could be overtaxed as early as October 18. We are talking about 10% on air products and 25% on agricultural and industrial products. Minister, how do you assess the impact of US sanctions on Belgian companies? What products are concerned? Is an exercise planned, coordinated with the federated entities, to inform our businesses and SMEs? What is the European response? Are steps taken for a negotiated solution? Are there WTO decisions that Europe could operate in return and, if so, what decisions are involved? Finally, can we say that we have entered a trade war with the United States and how do you envisage the economic impact of this in the medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u26	Mr President, Mr Lacroix, the additional US import duties announced at the beginning of October concern 0.1 % of our exports to the United States for an average value of EUR 13.6 million per year. The Belgian products directly concerned are fruit (pears and cherries) and fruit preparations, dairy products (cream, butter, cheese), molluscs (mussels, seafood preparations) and sausage. Therefore, the additional import duties of 25% that will be lifted by the United States will increase the amount of duties levied on Belgian exported products from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 4.6 million per year. The information exercise for our companies began in mid-April via the federations, just after the initiation of the US survey and the publication for the US, on April 12, 2019, of the first list of European products for which the US would consider applying additional duties. This interactive communication with the federations was continued in early July following the publication by the United States of a list of additional European products and, in early October, following the publication by the United States of the final list. It should be noted that this final list may still be subject to some changes as a result of the very high-level contracts concluded between the United States and some Member States of Europe. This information has been shared and is regularly monitored by the federal and federated entities concerned. The European Union has always favoured a negotiated solution. It informed the US authorities of this and proposed to them the opening of a dialogue aimed at adopting, on both sides, best practices to be applied to subsidies in the aeronautics sector. Despite the European Union's willingness to de-escalate, the effective application of additional duties by the United States in the Airbus dispute could force it to do the same in the Boeing dispute once the WTO dispute settlement body has ruled on this case. The tariff measures that the United States and Europe could effectively apply in the context of the Airbus and Boeing disputes will be in accordance with WTO rules. The aim here is to obtain compensation for non-compliance with WTO rules on subsidies on both sides. There is therefore no question of a trade war itself in this case. Nevertheless, there is a real risk that these disputes will escalate into escalation. That is why Europe favours a negotiated and balanced solution in mutual taxation. As far as the economic impact is concerned, it is still under consideration, both at national and European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for your answer - expressed in a good French, rest assured. I congratulate you. I am pleased to note that Belgium has played its role in communications with the federations. I would like the federated entities to be even more involved in the mechanism. As you said, the final list could still be changed, which could further worsen the impact, which today, if I understood correctly, has increased from EUR 1.2 million to EUR 4.6 million. I note that the European Union is considering negotiated solutions not to enter into a trade war. But I think a negotiated solution is always easy when you have a partner opposite who wants to negotiate. Today, however, the American president, on many issues, imposes his point of view – not that of his government or of his majority, but his personal point of view. I don't think we're out of the inn yet, as they say!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depraetere's 55000926C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u29	Mr President, Minister, competition law was introduced at the time to protect consumers. Indeed, distortion of competition leads to high prices. There are high fines on a violation. In the Netherlands, the Supervisory Authority for Consumer & Markt (ACM) commissioned research from around 2,000 companies. The results were quite remarkable. More than 10% of companies consider price fixing or customer sharing to be worth considering. In the case of smaller companies, almost 1 in 5, almost 20% of this behaviour is found acceptable. The motivation for this attitude often rests not on malice, but rather on ignorance. The ACM therefore launched an information campaign. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Is the Dutch study, and its results, also known to our competition authority? Does the BMA itself intend to have such a study carried out? In 2016, the BMA published an information brochure on competition law for SMEs. Has the effect of this brochure ever been measured? Will the BMA bring this brochure to the attention of SMEs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u30	Mr President, sir. This study is effectively known by the BMA, who maintains close contacts with the ACM. Both authorities were able to discuss this at various meetings. The BMA considers that it is a very interesting and useful initiative for the effective implementation of the principles of competition law. The Belgian Competition Authority does not currently have any concrete plans to carry out a similar study and first uses the resources available to it to implement its priorities for this year. This was also addressed during the questions on medicinal products, which are highlighted in the context of concentration dossiers. The BMA did not carry out any real investigation into the effects of its competition law brochure. However, it measures the positive effects of its contacts with the professional and business associations concerned, which it regularly meets, and within the special advisory committee on competition of the Central Council for Industry. The brochure is a valuable tool. The BMA will not fail to bring that to the attention of SMEs as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. We must indeed try to bring it to the attention of SMEs, because as the research has shown, it is often not a question of malice, but of ignorance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depraetere's 55000938C lapses because she was discussed in plenary last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in the Netherlands there appear to be some malpractice by large software companies. Dutch companies denounce the monopolistic behaviour of large software suppliers. The complaints are mainly about unilateral adjustments to licensing agreements, which means that the costs for companies and companies are suddenly considerably higher than originally planned. How do these software companies work? Software companies' employees or even external audit firms are asked to check the customers and see whether the licences are still applicable and whether they can be adjusted unilaterally. It appears to be mainly about listed European and American IT companies that often operate aggressively and particularly customer-unfriendly. If there are companies or companies that dare to protest, they will be given a settlement with a confidentiality clause for signature. Madam Secretary, do you know whether such commercial practices also exist with us? Have any complaints been received from the Belgian Competition Authority? Do you think that our companies are sufficiently informed about such practices and the legal framework in this respect? Are initiatives being taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u34	Mr President, I myself have no knowledge of such practices. We have asked the BMA if they have any more information on this matter. In the past, they have received one informal complaint concerning similar practices. However, there were not enough concrete elements in the file to open an investigation. The Belgian Competition Authority has been making great efforts for many years to increase the knowledge of competition law among companies. In 2018, more than 150 concrete questions were answered and the Belgian Competition Authority participated in 30 lectures, debates and interviews. It would be interesting to read the annual reports of the Belgian Competition Authority. These can be found on the website. I can also say that an information campaign will soon be launched aimed at businesses on the new regulatory framework of 4 April 2019 in connection with the abuse of economic dependence, unfair terms between companies and misleading and aggressive market practices towards companies. That is what the new information campaign of the BMA is about, which hopefully has some effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u35	Madam Minister, all this, and certainly starting a new information campaign, seems to me to be steps in the right direction. As such practices are taking place in the Netherlands, I would be surprised if they did not take place in Belgium. Perhaps that should be examined in more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, last July, the American magazine Billboard would have obtained an unprecedented admission of the world's number one concert organization. Indeed, Live Nation would have admitted to having helped a famous group and a dozen artists set up a structured system of resale of concert tickets in the secondary market, the illicit gains being then shared at 40% for the group, 40% for Live Nation, a consultant and the promoter sharing the rest. Of course, this is not the first time we've talked about these cynical and double-sided practices. On the one hand, the black market that undermines the sector is being eroded. On the other hand, the tools needed for this black market on the Internet are provided. In Belgium, we have the law of 30 July 2013 on the resale of title to access to events. It is very clear; it prohibits the resale of concert tickets in a usual way or at a price higher than the original price. It allows the administration of the Minister of Economy to investigate and find the offences. Minister, following Billboard magazine's announcement, have you asked your administration to investigate these practices? Can you indicate whether Belgian consumers have been deceived? How many violations of the 2013 Act have been found in the last five years? Finally, the 2013 Act provides for the submission of a report to the House every two years. Has this report been published? If so, can you transmit a copy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u37	Mr. Prévot, neither my administration nor myself have been informed of Live Nation's statements in the American magazine Billboard. My administration is not in a position to tell me whether the Belgian consumer has been affected by the practice. Over the past five years, the Economic Inspectorate has received 2,613 reports of ticket resale. The vast majority concern companies established outside our territory or even beyond the European Union. The Economic Inspectorate found 182 offences during the same period. Currently, my administration is developing an update of the assessment report tabled in the House in early 2017. As soon as this is done, it will be possible to make this work available to the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It would not be pointless to investigate further. You're talking about 2,613 reports. It's huge. But, as you say, it's out of our jurisdiction and beyond our sphere of jurisdiction. I shall await the finalization of the report that you will submit to all parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u39	Madam Minister, from 1 December onwards traders are obliged to complete cash payments for purchases by consumers either upwards or downwards. In recent years traders have been able to apply the rule voluntarily, both in cash payments and in card payments, but not in meal or ecocheques. Among other things, the NSZ believes that this can lead to confusion among customers and to discussions about why one product is finished and the other not. Madam Minister, I have already addressed my question to your predecessor. It was converted into a written question, but because I did not find that answer satisfactory, I retabled it. Do you consider that there could be discrimination according to the different payment methods? Are you prepared to engage in discussions with interest groups, such as the NSZ, which do indicate that the scheme can lead to uncertainty? Why not opt for a uniform system, which is mandatory for all payment methods? After all, I note that from December onwards the consumer will pay more or less depending on his payment method.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u40	Mr Van Lommel, you did indeed put the exact same question in writing to my predecessor, whom you have now extended a little. I shall therefore have to disappoint you, because my answer will be the same as my colleague Mr Beke's written reply. The aim of the measure, which will enter into force on 1 December, is to drastically reduce the use of the 1 and 2 cent pieces. Therefore, the law only provides for mandatory rounding for cash payments. The law also allows companies to decide to apply the rounding of the total amount to all other payments. The 1 and 2 cent pieces cause considerable costs, both for the Treasury and for companies and banks. Many consumers are also not in favour of these documents. More information is available through the Eurobarometer. It indicates that almost two out of three respondents are in favour of its abolition. There are two clear differences in the situation for consumers and two clearly defined groups of companies, namely those who always complete them and those who only finalise them in cash payments. There is therefore no discrimination. As far as your suggestion is concerned, as a new minister, I am currently receiving everyone. I therefore intend to receive the representatives of the NSZ shortly. I will certainly discuss the issue with them and examine whether we can respond to any suggestions for further changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. For the sake of clarity, I had initially put an oral question in committee, which was later converted into a written question. However, that aside. I am of course pleased that you are prepared to receive and discuss the representatives of the NSZ. I believe that this is necessary. It is not possible to pay more or less according to the method of payment at the end of the journey. Such discrimination must be eliminated. It will also become much more unambiguous for the consumer. I therefore hope that this arrangement can be revised and that your discussion with the NSZ will bring more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u42	I understand the concerns, but you must also understand that we are currently in current business. I have heard a number of questions here today that I cannot do in current cases. In this sense, it is certainly up to Parliament to take initiatives. After all, it can do that today. I will certainly enter into the conversation and repeat the recommendations to the next government. Of course, Parliament is free to take initiatives in a period of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u43	Absolutely. This afternoon we start with a number of legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u44	Madam Secretary, on 17 October 2019 Boris Johnson reached an agreement to leave Europe without hard Brexit. Apart from all the future debates that will have to be held in the coming days and weeks, including in the UK Parliament, and the final decision-making that will be taken, we can see today that the agreement would mean, among other things, that companies would not feel the Brexit until after 2020. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. When we look at the agreement, the question arises as to how the new negotiated agreement relates to the previous agreements that have been there, specifically for our entrepreneurs. After all, we were given an explanation here in committee a while ago and had an exchange of views on the current state of affairs back then. However, when we look at the new agreement and apply it to the situation, the question is what are the advantages and disadvantages for our entrepreneurs. Finally, Madam Minister, do you consider it desirable to anticipate the agreement? If so, how are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, a new agreement on Brexit was reached on 17 October and was subsequently approved by the European Council. A crucial debate on its approval was due to take place in the British Parliament on Saturday, 19 October, but we were once again able to see a number of twists. I don't think we should stay suspended from Boris Johnson's delay and imagine all the scenarios. Minister, can you give us your views on the economic consequences of Brexit? Until now, the forecasts have given, for lack of a concrete perspective, a range of 10,000 to 42,000 jobs lost as a result of Brexit. Can we now specify the magnitude of the shock to be expected? What steps will you take in the coming days to limit this impact? Are additional staff recruited from the FPS Economy? What is the proportion of SMEs among companies that have completed the Brexit Impact Scan? Can you provide an update on the European funds for the affected companies, as well as on the agreements regulating future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u46	Mr President, we have tried to be as topical as possible, because the situation is changing very quickly. Last Saturday, the United Kingdom and the European Union agreed on an agreement to regulate the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. This seems to avoid a no-dealbrexit, which is a good thing for our Belgian companies, which will not be faced with sudden and profound changes in their relationship with the United Kingdom on 31 October. For the time being, therefore, it seems that there will be a transition period, which is very conditional until the end of December 2020, maximum renewable until December 2022, in which nothing will change for our companies. However, this agreement still needs to be transposed into internal legislation by the UK Parliament. During the second reading of the divorce agreement, the British Parliament agreed for the first time yesterday to a deal. Nevertheless, no agreement could be reached on the proposed timetable. However, it can be said that this is a positive signal, with a no-deal brexit most likely being averted. That's all very conditional. The European Parliament will also express its views on this issue and, in all likelihood, agree to this deal. We will therefore continue to follow this dossier closely, together with all relevant public authorities and regions, and will clearly focus on an orderly arrangement, with the impact on our economy as limited as possible. With regard to this impact, the KUL study mentions a range of jobs lost ranging from 10,000, in the case of a Brexit soft, to 42,000, in the case of a Brexit no-deal. If the agreement were finally approved by the British Parliament, it is very likely that the number of jobs lost would be closer to the 10 000 than the 42 000, limiting the negative effects on the labour market in Belgium. Finally, it should also be stressed that a transitional period is planned in order to properly prepare companies and to minimise the economic consequences of Brexit. However, these are still difficult to determine. In order to anticipate as much as possible, the SPF Economy regularly organizes information sessions on Brexit and its implications for businesses, either on its own initiative or at the request of businesses, and if necessary in coordination with other federal Public Services. These briefings will continue as the situation evolves. Companies and citizens can also visit the FPS Economy website where they can find relevant information on Brexit and other FPS Economy initiatives, such as the Brexit Impact Analysis and a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on this topic. Colleagues, it really pays to visit the website of the FPS Economy. There is a breakdown for individuals and businesses. You will find a great deal of concrete information on what to do if you become ill and what its consequences are, how to open a bank account, whether to bring food with you when travelling and what documents you need, or how to study. Everything is in there, including for our companies, about which papers one should have. It's a very good website. He's been operational for a week now and he's been consulted a lot. So far, the Dutch version of the Brexit Impact Scan, on the portal of the SPF Economy, has been accessed 21 272 times; the French version 7 137 times. That's a lot. Demand does not make it possible to distinguish between SMEs and large enterprises. Another way to anticipate the potential consequences of Brexit was to recruit in the affected public services. On 18 January 2019, the Council of Ministers agreed to an additional staff appropriation of EUR 1,065,000, corresponding to 20 recruitments. The selection procedures have been implemented. Entry into service has been in place since this summer, depending on the availability of the winners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u47	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As the situation is evolving on a daily basis, it may be very useful to continue to inform this committee and to organise an exchange of views in this committee once there is more clarity on the final form of the Brexit, given the importance of the whole dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. We all feel this artistic blur. A first step took place yesterday, but the temporality is random in this case. I hear your willingness to follow this issue closely to limit its impact. I welcome with great enthusiasm the fact that you felt that we would be more faced with a Brexit soft than with a no deal. I also understand that a transition period is planned, but it is impossible to determine. On the other hand, the information sessions initiated by the SPF Economy are a good thing. I visited the website yesterday and there is a series of useful information. I would also like to stress in a positive way the 20 commitments that should relieve services and make it possible to move forward on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u49	Madam Secretary, since May 2014, anyone who no longer wants to be called for commercial purposes can put his number on the Bel-Me Non-More list. If companies fail to comply with that list, they risk criminal prosecution, with fines of up to EUR 80,000. A commercial company wishing to do an action by telephone is then expected to purchase a license for that list, so that they are aware of who certainly shouldn't be called. The non-profit association Do Not Call Me indicates that many companies are still not aware of the regulations. This organisation has now launched an awareness campaign itself and has also encouraged the FPS Economy to carry out additional checks to protect consumers and to ensure that people who state that they do not want to be called do not fall victim to a call action. Madam Secretary, do you intend to respond to Do Not Call Me's call? If so, what is the plan of action? What measures do you intend to take to encourage commercial companies to comply with current regulations? In 2014, the Bel-Me Non-More list became applicable. What controls have been carried out over the past five years? What reasons do you consider plausible why commercial companies do not comply with that list? How many violations have been detected in recent years? How many of them were eventually punished? How high was the average fine?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u50	Mr Van Lommel, the approach to the problem is both preventive and repressive. The vzw Do Not Call Me and the FPS Economy carry out awareness campaigns on a regular basis to inform commercial companies of their legal obligations. Since 2015, the Economic Inspectorate has launched 265 investigations. Twenty-two minutes of warning and 69 projusti's were drawn up. In 44 cases, this led to an administrative transaction procedure with an average transaction value of EUR 2,294. The Economic Inspectorate also brought three claims for strike, condemning the companies to cease their activities. According to the surveys, the main reasons for not respecting the Bel-Mij-Non-More list are integration problems of the list into the company's IT system, inadequate consultation of the list and practices of some companies that continue to act aggressively, despite explicit consumer resistance. The issue of unwanted calls remains a priority for the Economic Inspectorate. In the event of a clear infringement and an identifiable offender, the Economic Inspectorate shall investigate and, if necessary, shall also bring action for strike. Consumer law is broad. There's a lot to check, but I still think it's an important item. My predecessor has made sure that there are more resources. In the meantime, 40 new inspectors can be recruited. More inspectors and inspectors make it possible to identify more infringements. That remains very important to me. Like many of you, such facts irritate me greatly. The problem will therefore continue to be one of the priorities for controls.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u51	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you share my concern, that the issue will remain a priority for the Economic Inspectorate and that sufficient staff will be deployed to do so. After all, many consumers share that frustration. Existing legislation must be maintained. I believe that we must remain vigilant in the future, so that commercial companies also comply effectively with these regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u52	Minister, Test Achats has highlighted the fact that airlines impose high charges on their passengers when they ask to correct a typing error committed in their name at the time of booking. According to the association, this practice is illegal. It has therefore sent a notice to ten airlines asking them to put an end to this practice within 15 days, otherwise Test Achats will bring the case to a court. Most airlines give travellers the opportunity to correct a typing error by paying a certain amount. This is particularly the case for Brussels Airlines (25 euros to change 2 characters), Emirates (30 euros), TAP Air Portugal (25 euros to change 3 characters) and Ryanair (115 or 160 euros, depending on whether the correction is made online or at the airport). British Airways charges the fare difference if the ticket price increased between the first reservation and the correction. The same applies to Vueling, who also claims a fixed amount of 50 euros. Travellers who refuse to pay will not be able to board their aircraft. For example, forgetting the apostrophe of my name would cost me 160 euros at Ryanair if I made a change at the airport. Is this practice of forcing travellers to pay such sums common in our airports? Is it legal? More and more customers are booking their flights online themselves, which undoubtedly saves airlines considerable costs. Should not the modification of its own data be free of charge? After all, this is a simple mistake. What steps are you going to take to put an end to this fraudulent practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u53	Minister, this Monday morning's press reported that many airlines are asking passengers for fees, sometimes very high, to be able to change a typing error in the encoding of their name when booking. For the Consumer Association Test Purchases, this practice is illegal. Some airlines take advantage of this to recover a little or a lot of money. Other companies go a little further and do not allow the typing errors to be changed. Test Achats has decided to challenge ten companies active in Belgium and has asked them to cease this practice immediately. Minister, were you aware of these illegal practices? Are you planning to meet with airline representatives in the coming days? Do you intend to take immediate steps to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u54	The reported practice is not new. It has already been investigated by the Economic Inspectorate in 2015, as part of the European Fair Skies project. Brussels Airlines was asked about this in July 2018 to make it apparent to passengers the importance of correct wording of their names and the costs charged in the event of a correction. In fact, the correct wording of his name is primarily the responsibility of the passenger himself when booking his ticket, either directly or through a travel agency. However, the costs charged cannot be disproportionate to the costs of accommodation in the airline head. The Economic Inspectorate has not found unfair practices and unfair terms in this regard. Given the absence of a complaint, I do not see the need for further action. Given the international dimension of this problem, an initiative at European level is desirable. As a minister, I can only intervene for Brussels Airlines. I think it will be necessary to take an initiative at European level in order to act towards the other companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u55	I just wanted to know whether this was legal or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u56	There's a contract, and if the passengers are really aware of the contents of the contract, it's not illegal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u57	Madam Minister, in your reply, I understand that Brussels Airlines has already received a warning, in particular as to how it informs. There is obviously a lack of information as people who have been chewed had not seen that these spelling changes could result in sometimes very high costs. You have the essential competence on Brussels Airlines, this is your field of action. It should be reminded that this must be proportionate, as the amounts in question are not. Consumer protection is an issue here, as these people have been scolded. For minimal changes, zero or very small fees may be applied, but in any case not those reported by the press at the beginning of the week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u58	Madam Minister, the point has already been raised during the topical debate. Although travellers who have paid for their journey by credit card can read on the Guarantee Fund website that they must contact the credit card company in the event of problems, the credit card company refuses to pay and refers them again to the Guarantee Fund. In short, the consumer is sent from here to there, is the experience of some people. Your predecessor, whom I questioned, said he would take an initiative to bring the actors together for consultation. I understand that the consultations have taken place in the meantime. What are the results? Is it correct of the Guarantee Fund to refer those who paid for their journey by credit card to the bank or credit card company? In other words, is the Guarantee Fund not obliged to reimburse the customer in this case? Can banks and credit card companies refuse reimbursement for non-delivery of paid services and ask travellers to contact the Guarantee Fund first? If not, how do you intend to act? If so, on what grounds? Bodies point to each other sometimes. How can we solve this situation and ensure that the consumer is well informed about where he or she can go?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u59	Mr Van Hecke, as I said, there has indeed already been discussions between my cabinet and the various parties involved, namely the Guarantee Fund Travel, Febelfin and credit card publishers. Meanwhile, there were two meetings on 2 and 10 October and this morning there is another meeting. The purpose of this consultation is threefold. Firstly, clear and clear communication must be prepared for the affected travellers. Secondly, it will be examined whether the contractual terms applicable to credit card customers give them the possibility or the right to refund the sums they have unlawfully paid themselves in foreign hotels. If the answer to the second question is positive, it will be examined how it can be organized as easily as possible for the affected travellers. The Travel Guarantee Fund had indeed communicated that the affected travellers should first address their credit card issuer. However, that communication was withdrawn very quickly, which, of course, caused a great deal of confusion and which I personally find unfortunate. In this sense, when clear agreements have been made, communication will be very important. I also share your view that this needs to be clarified as soon as possible, but you can come back to your question. I hope that we will be clear about this as soon as possible, even after this morning's sitting, so that the traveller knows where he is and gets the right communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic040x.u60	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Communication is essential. If there is an agreement, communication may not have to take place as a result of a parliamentary question; it certainly needs to be communicated properly. The EESC welcomes the fact that the relevant communication from the Guarantee Fund's website has been obtained. Perhaps the outcome of the consultations could also be mentioned there. Hopefully there will be a solution soon.
