ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u1	Mr President, Minister, a month or two ago, during his annual Health Community Congress, Voka said that some EUR 3.5 billion was wasted on an annual basis. It is Voka's words, not mine, or badly spent by, among other things, double investigations, unnecessary interventions, inadequate prevention, unnecessary administrative costs. At some point Voka even speaks the word fraud. Given the rising costs in social security, I certainly do not need to explain this to you, and therefore the need for additional resources for the same social security, Voka believes that a lot of resources can be found by, among other things, efficiency gains, without having to take care of them. That is why I would like to receive a number of answers to four questions, Madam Minister. Do you share Voka's analysis of waste and/or poor spending and what is your response to this? Are you adding Voka's statement that more than 2 billion euros should be invested in, among other things, innovation and digitalisation? What initiatives have you taken in this respect? Have you contacted Voka about the findings of the Health Community Congress? If so, what were those contacts? If not, do you plan another contact on this or let that chalice pass you by? How do you respond to the word 'fraud' quoted by Voka? What initiatives have you already developed, or will you be developing, to combat this fraud, if you think there is one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u2	Mr Creyelman, I leave Voka's calculations to them. After all, there is absolutely no transparency as to how Voka got those figures. There is, for example, the distinction between inefficient care and fraud. In the case of fraud, the intention is to make money available by clearly exceeding the rules, e.g. the nomenclature, and to impose a charge with recovery and an administrative procedure. When it comes to inefficient care, there is a more complex context that is difficult to clearly address. In general, international studies indicate that more money is lost in overconsumption than in fraud. Uneffective care and over-consumption are addressed, among other things, by our enforcement plans. We have drawn up a plan of enforcement for the evidence-based application of investigations, the administration of medication, etc. That plan is constantly being revised and followed up. That's about four years old. Fraud is tracked down by the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control. In 2018, the audit investigations carried out by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV resulted in more than 600,000 infringements found with a charge of 5.2 million euros, of which more than half were already effectively repaid. In addition, there is a proactive follow-up of known fraudsters, with a financial impact of 10 million euros per year. The information campaigns targeted at specific healthcare providers also result in a clear visible reduction in unnecessary expenditure in health care. In order to create more effective care, several measures have been taken. There are the reimbursement conditions in the nomenclature that refer to evidence-based medicine. They contribute to a more quality use of resources. Furthermore, through cooperation and concentration of care, hospital networks also contribute to more quality and affordable care. Initiatives have already been taken at the level of the RIZIV, namely a cell of Effective Care and sensitisation actions among healthcare providers that do have an impact. There are also actions in cooperation with the partners of the RIZIV, for example the Action Plan on Enforcement in Health. We are currently up to the second edition running from 2018 until the end of 2020. Another example is the design passerelle, where hospital audit is further developed with a specific focus on improvement projects. As far as the fight against fraud is concerned, important steps have been taken with regard to the exchange of information with insurance institutions. To this end, a common data platform RIZIV-InterMutualist Agency was created, using a common data transport system. For more than 15 years, the RIZIV has also provided a highly developed data warehouse and business intelligence tools that allow for the collection and definition of various data such as invoicing and attestation, regulations, use of pharmaceutical products and data on disability and disability and others, and on this basis, to carry out analyses and to make forecasts. This is done in the context of the financing of health care and disability benefits. The RIZIV wants to further develop the analytical section in order to support the various control services even better in carrying out their tasks and detecting fraud and abuse. We are dealing with the impact of the war for talent on control doctors, data analysts and data scientists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am satisfied with your answer. It can largely be divided into two parts: overconsumption and fraud, for which you quoted the figure of EUR 10 million on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u4	No, these EUR 10 million concern the continued succession of people who have ever been caught in fraud. They're under very strict control. That amount is always about achieved because they sometimes continue to fall into the same trap.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u5	It's about recidivism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u6	They are indeed repeaters to the coffin. In 2018 we had more than 600,000 determined interventions. A further 5.2 million euros were fraudulently recovered from the RIZIV. That amount must therefore be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u7	I am certainly pleased that you are making observations, because the first part of the solution is, of course, the identification of the problem and the determination of its size. I am also pleased to see that you are taking initiatives. As far as contact with Voka is concerned, I understand that you had no contact with them about a conference. However, it seems interesting to me, because they insist with a great deal of certainty that there is EUR 3.5 billion to be raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u8	I do not think it is normal for them to ask me what they should say at their congress, but I do not know if they will get that amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u9	You misunderstand me, Madam Secretary. They speak of EUR 3.5 billion to be recovered. I thought it might be interesting for your cabinet to join Voka where they get that figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u10	There are regular contacts with people working on health at Voka. I suppose it'll come of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, it may be interesting to have a small debate, but in the model we are discussing it is intended to ask the question, to answer the Minister and to reply. If people keep asking questions, we won't get ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u12	Mr.President, Madam Minister, since September 1, 2019, the expansion of nursing activities delegated to nursing assistants has been applicable, despite the reservations expressed by the professionals at the time, whether they are nurses or nursing assistants, considering that these acts were not mild, that they required sufficient training. Indeed, the 150 hours recommended are largely insufficient for all, considering that the safety of patients was at stake and that the delegation of acts does not relieve nurses as they remain responsible for monitoring the actions taken. In addition, health-care workers were not seeking this reform, which increased their burden and responsibility without revalorisation of wages. This reform is likely to have counterproductive effects, since nurses are not relieved of their responsibility, they have additional control and administrative burdens; health-care workers pose acts which, in their view, increase their burden while hospitals believe that this is a potential risk in the current situation. The General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB) has also filed an action for annulment with the Council of State. Minister, why didn't you take into account the many comments made by nurses' associations in this reform? Nurses and caregivers are apparently not in favour of it, so why have they implemented it? If it is not, as they claim, beneficial to their profession, to whom does it benefit? Do you not think that the entry into force of this reform should have been postponed for everyone to receive the necessary training?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u13	Mr President, Mr Rigot, it must be clear that I am making decisions for the benefit of patients. As part of the modernization of Royal Decree No. 78, the employers and the associations representing nurses and caregivers informed me that they felt that the list of acts authorized for caregivers since 2006 had been outdated and needed to be adapted. In 2017, I received various opinions on this subject, including that of the Federal Council for Nursing on the differentiation of functions within nursing. I then asked the Technical Commission for Nursing to offer me new nursing acts delegable to nursing assistants, which she did in April 2018. As provided for in the Belgian institutional framework, in the context of the work of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, I have sent this proposal for new acts to the Ministers of the Communities responsible for Education in order to find out how much more training is needed to adequately train health-care workers in the implementation of these acts. On this occasion, the Federal Council of Nursing also gave me an opinion on this useful training. I have received various opinions from various stakeholders. We talk about 8 hours to 1080 hours of training. You can see that the fork is quite wide. I therefore had to find a compromise between the list of acts proposed by the Federal Council of Nursing Art and the ability of the Communities to organise teaching in relation to the competences assigned to the caregivers. Five acts were added for the latter, while at the beginning there were eight different acts. I would point out that no nurse is obliged to delegate his actions and that he can only do so after exercising the very essence of his profession, which is the assessment of the patient's problems and needs and the usefulness of using a caregiver to carry out certain acts. If the patient absolutely needs a nurse to perform certain acts, it is up to the nurse not to delegate them but to execute them himself or to ask a colleague nurse to do so (if he finds it, it is not always the case) or to report to the management of his institution that more nurses are needed. I would also add that, thanks to this delegation, properly trained nursing assistants will be able to devote themselves to tasks that correspond to their skills. This reform will benefit the quality of care and therefore the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u14	Thank you, Madam Minister. There are currently 128,000 caregivers in Belgium. They cannot be asked for more responsibility without raising their wages and providing them with training that meets their expectations. I hear you say that you have had to make a difficult compromise with the Communities on the organisation of training; but you also say that your interest is the patient. It seems to me that we cannot compromise on training, with any part of it, when we talk about the best interests of the patient. We must therefore provide ourselves with the means, or ensure that they are given, to ensure that the training meets the expectations. I would also stress that it is essential to defend medical personnel. You say nurses can choose not to delegate and tell their management that there are not enough nurses. You know, like me, that last week we voted for additional budgets for "white blouses", precisely because there were not enough resources, especially in the hospital community. To have more nurses, you have to raise their wages and create the desire to practice this profession tomorrow. I very much hope that next year too, the White Blouse Fund will be taken into account in order to extend well-being to health-care workers and caregivers. Indeed, all contribute to the well-being of all patients. You'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u15	I hope to see that with you. But things aren't that simple!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, a few months ago, several newspapers reported on the increase in the cost of immunotherapy, particularly with regard to cancer. This amounted to over EUR 1 billion last year, compared to only EUR 600 million in 2016. One reason for this increase is the use of immunotherapy. Although it benefits a limited number of patients, its cost is significant and it generates higher expenses than those associated with chemotherapy. For our group, it is clear that everyone must have access to health care, to quality care, especially when it comes to serious diseases such as cancer. Nevertheless, the evolution of health care finances must be sustainable in order to safeguard health care insurance. We consider it essential to adopt a new policy on the development and accessibility of medicines in order to maintain the difficult balance, I agree, of our health care system. Minister, could you give us a detailed account of the evolution of the budget for the reimbursement of cancer drugs over the last ten years? You said, in the press, that you should consider making a refund only for really effective treatments and that, if that were not the case, the pharmaceutical producer would have to bear the costs himself. You also said that new models must be found to negotiate and lower the prices of medicines. Could you explain to us what you are considering for this purpose? In addition, do you consider it necessary to increase the accountability of the pharmaceutical sector in the context of the budget allocated to it, as is also the case for other health care sectors? Finally, one of the recommendations made by mutual societies was the development of a genuine European strategy to put pressure on pharmaceutical firms to better control costs. We know that Belgium does not represent much on a European scale. What do you think? What are you advocating in the Council of the European Union in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u17	Mr President, Mr Rigot, the data you are asking about the evolution of the budget for the reimbursement of cancer medicines are available in the MORSE report of 2018, published on the INAMI website, taking up the evolution of expenditure between 2007 and 2016. With regard to the models used to lower drug prices, several mechanisms are already in place for reimbursement of treatment only when it has proven its effectiveness, in accordance with the Future Pact signed with representatives of the pharmaceutical industry in July 2015. These mechanisms are often based on the outcome of clinical studies of the medicinal products concerned and therefore on all potential patients. It should be possible to apply more and more efficiency-based mechanisms at the individual level. The objective is therefore to continue working on the development of demonstrated performance-based mechanisms. The pharmaceutical sector is made aware through a retrocession when the pharmaceutical sector's budget is exceeded. It's the grow back system. In accordance with the Future Pact, pharmaceutical companies are aware that further efforts will be required if the multi-year framework cannot be respected. A number of cost-saving measures, implemented mainly through revisions to the reimbursement arrangements for the proprietary groups resulting in lower prices for medicines, have entered into force in order to achieve this objective. The recommendation made by mutualities for international collaboration is a strategy that I have supported for several years. The launch of our BeNeLuxA initiative and the means made available in this framework for Belgium's active participation in this initiative since its launch, as well as Belgium's involvement in the International Horizon Scanning Initiative, are proof of this. Currently, three days of meetings are held in Amsterdam to strengthen collaboration between the five BeNeLuxA countries. I'm represented by a staff member from my office because I had to stay here. It must be said that we have begun this collaboration. For the rest, not much has moved in recent years within the European Commission. I must admit that the big countries such as France and Germany were not interested. The Nordic countries have requested a great deal of information. They organize themselves to form what they call the Nordic Alliance, which makes possible our collaboration with them. As far as the International Horizon Scanning Initiative is concerned, nine countries – not all Europeans – are working with us. It's moving slowly. Before us, there was nothing. I am already very pleased that Belgium is considered everywhere (OECD, WTO,...) as a partner who has developed expertise. It is obvious that we must persevere in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u18	Minister, I am pleased to hear you recognize the international collaboration initiative that is being developed. It is essential and I thank you for continuing this fight. As we all know, it is important – these are the future challenges – to guarantee the supply of medicines for all, at decent price conditions to be fixed in the light of the depreciation of the development costs of these products and also of the sales volume of the companies. Madam Minister, thank you for this fight. I can only join you in pursuing it at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u19	Minister, according to a recent study, it appears that equipping patients suspected of high blood pressure with a portable blood pressure measuring device – what is called a holter – for 24 hours is the most effective way to detect a future cardiovascular accident. According to the study authors, the measurement of blood pressure for one day and one night predicts the occurrence of these diseases much better than an isolated measure or repeated measurements of blood pressure at the doctor's office or hospital. This improved performance is largely due to the measurement of blood pressure during sleep. Cardiovascular disease is responsible for nearly 31,000 deaths every year in our country. It's the leading cause of death. Hypertension is involved in at least half of these cases. The results of this study should therefore be examined with the utmost attention as they show that this 24-hour blood pressure measurement is essential for the diagnosis of high blood pressure. Minister, is the 24-hour outpatient measure of blood pressure currently reimbursed by health insurance? If so, in what specific cases? If not, how do you explain this situation? Would it then be possible to allow or extend this repayment in the future? We are convinced that effective prevention would reduce the costs of hospital care for complications of high blood pressure and reduce early death.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u20	Mr.Rigot, the article published in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) on August 6, 2019 consists of a cohort study involving 11,000 adults from three continents with observations during the period 1998-2016 concerning blood pressure, how to measure this tension and the association with the risks of death and stroke. It is clear to everyone that hypertension is a known risk factor for stroke. It is therefore advisable to monitor blood pressure. Nevertheless, the measurement of blood pressure for 24 hours is done in practice via measurements taken every 15 to 20 minutes and therefore not continuously. This technique also has a stress factor that can lead to episodes of iatrogenic hypertension. Indeed, the examination involves the automatic insufflation of the tensiometer every fifteen to twenty minutes, which can cause some stress with blood pressure rising during the night in a sleeping patient. To date, the nomenclature of health benefits provides for multiple benefits that enable a patient's blood pressure to be measured correctly. Measuring voltage for 24 hours does not provide much more useful information. The conclusion of the cohort study also confirms this. This technique is therefore not reimbursed and a refund is not foreseen in the immediate future. However, if necessary, this technique is still available in several cardiac centres. Cardiologist consultations are often attested and also reimbursed. This has been a subject of study for years and I have not been particularly impressed by the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u21	Thank you, Madam Minister. I can hear your remarks, and I can imagine how much your expertise as a doctor allows you to understand these subjects with a different look than mine. It is always important to prevent rather than heal, for the benefit of all possible victims. Prevention within 24 hours, via manual technique, generates stress. The study says holter can bring benefits. No doubt we need to investigate in this direction. In conclusion, should this measure not be considered for certain types of patients at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u22	You have to be clear. A holter is used to see the heart rate. To measure a tension, you always have to take it here or there. There may even be differences depending on the position of the patient's hand. In any case, you need an inflated line, otherwise you can't measure it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u24	Madam Minister, medicines will soon be prescribed electronically via the Recip-e software module, which is part of the eHealth platform. When the care provider prepares his prescription, he will have access to the medicinal product compound via a dropdown menu. Of course, it is important to select the right medicine for the condition in question, as was the case with paper prescriptions. However, since the compendium is now electronically available and the list of medicinal products is offered in a different format, this may have an impact on the selection of the medicinal product. First of all, is the list of medication displayed in random order? If not, what is the order based on? Is it the same in all software programs? Secondly, has it been checked whether doctors are inclined to select the first proposed medicines? Thirdly, is the proposed menu taking into account imminent stock shortages of medication? Finally, in your opinion, has the software also paid due attention to requirements on dust name?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u25	Mrs Gijbels, the classification of medicinal products on the list is based on established criteria. In the selection of a specific proprietary medicinal product, based on the molecule, strength and similar pack size, or when prescribing by dust name of the specialities belonging to the same group, the cheap alternatives shall first be shown and then ranked by ascending index and by the same index. This is laid down in Article 73 of the 1994 Law on sickness and invalidity insurance. In selecting a specific proprietary medicinal product for which no refund is provided, based on the molecule, strength and similar pack size, medicinal products shall be classified by ascending index and by the same index. Selection or ranking at the initiative of the software provider is not allowed. To seek clinically equivalent medicinal products at a temporary unavailability or marketing stop, VMP is used, which is more specific than the VMP group. VMPs provide for international exchange of rules. All medicines belonging to the same VMP are a logical alternative with the same composition, route of administration and pharmaceutical form. When prescribing a specific proprietary product, the corresponding VMP and the corresponding code should also be kept in the history of the prescribing software. For example, long after the marketing stop, an alternative can be read and analyses of prescribed clinical equivalent medicinal products can be carried out. www.sameportal.be For more information, please refer to the presentation on the SAM portal related to the electronic prescription. A substance name or VOC prescription is identified by a VMP group and associated code. VMP groups should be able to be searched by the prescriber at least on the basis of the active ingredient. The no-switch status shall be clearly displayed for each VMP group. That is bound by certain rules and does not depend on the software developer, otherwise a uniform system was impossible. There is no clear software system yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u26	Thank you for your answer. So, in all software systems, should the list be presented in the same way? I have my doubts about that. I am a dentist and I believe that it is not presented in my software system in the same way as other colleagues. I'm gonna have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u27	Those are the rules. I suggest you take a look at Samportal.be first. Well, normally it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u28	That's good. Furthermore, I still find it difficult to find a prescription on dust name in that electronic compendium. Perhaps efforts could be made to make this even simpler, to encourage the use of dust names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u29	Madam Minister, it has come to my attention that checks or admissions to a hospital on the blood certificate are often preceded by a number of tests without the patient in question being examined or without those examinations being applicable to that particular patient. Consequently, not all ticked studies are useful or applicable. I am thinking, for example, of patients entering with a fracture or for another acute intake. As a result, these blood tests cost the social security potentially unnecessary money. Madam Secretary, how will it be checked that a blood test carried out is necessary and useful in relation to the patient's complaint or diagnosis? In the case of a pointless investigation, can the allowance be refused at the time of reimbursement? If so, how often has this happened in the period 2014-2019? How are doctors sensitized in order to avoid useless tests in blood tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u30	Mrs Gijbels, the Department for Medical Evaluation and Control of the RIZIV conducts targeted research into specific laboratory findings. These studies mainly seek to detect variations between laboratories, but also between prescribers or hospitals. If such variations are determined after correction for certain weighting factors, they may indeed raise the demand for correct indication. These analyses are usually performed on aggregated data and not on the basis of individual patient complaints or diagnosis. In view of the legally established diagnostic and therapeutic freedom, controls at this level, i.e. per patient, are neither evident nor actually legal. Since the payment is made at the level of the insurance institutions, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service itself cannot refuse refunds. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service is bound by the determination of the infringements, as provided by law in Article 73a of the said Law for medical care and benefit insurance. Due to a lack of clear and generally accepted guidelines, it is very complicated for the service under current legislation to charge invoiced benefits on the basis of a limited diagnostic or therapeutic contribution. A sensitisation has more impact in this case. The department prefers these actions as a result. During the period 2014-2019 several healthcare providers were placed under monitoring. Only one file has been submitted to the Committee of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service for overconsumption. A revision of the legislation could indeed make such actions more efficient, but then we need to move towards the introduction of more directives. First of all, it should be noted that the fees for laboratory testing of clinical biology are largely paid at a flat-rate rate of 75%. This is already a prevention mechanism which reduces the additional cost to social security of an excessive number of tests. It should be noted that this mechanism will initially have an effect on the performer of the tests and less on the prescribers. In addition, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service also tries to carry out sensitisation actions. For example, a selective letter campaign was recently directed to some hospitals which had significantly increased their use for certain blood tests compared to the other hospitals. In other words, the outliers are taken out. If it turns out that they remain outliers, they will be placed under monitoring, but there will also be sensitisation and they will be called upon to do so. Therefore, they receive tailored feedback on the use of the tests, as well as the clear demand to apply the tests in accordance with the rules of evidence-based practice. The Medical Care Service of the RIZIV also conducts an annual information campaign for the general practitioners about, among other things, the prescription of clinical biology tests. The general practitioners also receive an individual feedback on their prescription behaviour from a number of tests. The emphasis is placed on proper use of the relevant blood tests. There are also tests that are only refunded once a year, for example a PSA test. One can do it every month, but it will not be refunded. I do not think that you should do it every month, but there are still tests that are restrictive, as far as reimbursement is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I heard a lot of good things, for example the feedback to the doctors and the hospitals. Furthermore, directives would be a very good thing as the knowledge centre has ever calculated that about 40% of the studies would be unnecessary. That seems to me to be enough to take it into account in future policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u32	Mr President, Minister, the first group of dental hygienists has been working for several months. According to the first figures we received from the dental hygienists' association, a large majority of dental hygienists are working in private practice and reach only a small minority, about 15%, vulnerable groups such as people in a residential care centre. The work that can be done by dental hygienists is making greater use of prevention, including extensive cleaning and nutrition advice and regular dental removal, which is otherwise more difficult to achieve. The potential added value of dental hygienists in a residential care centre, in a centre for people with disabilities or in private practice seems to me to be particularly high, as they can play a key role in limiting and preventing more extensive treatments. In the longer term, this will lead to better oral health, better health and lower social security costs. At present, however, this potential can only be used to a limited extent, as there is still no financial framework for dental hygienists. Firstly, is it true that a study on the financing of dental hygienists is being launched under Article 56 of the ZIV legislation? What's the status on this? When will this study start and when will this project end? Which bodies are involved in this study? Can the dental hygienists who are currently working be included in this study? Secondly, what advice do you have for the dental hygienists who are now working without a clear framework? What should they do in order to be able to carry out treatments while at present there is no provision for reimbursement? Thirdly, are the dental hygienists themselves involved in the study project?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u33	Mrs Gijbels, I have seen the time when there were questions every week when the dental hygienist could be a profession for the practice of medicine. So that's what happened. We have had to hurry seriously because those people had already completed more than the first year of their training before they could begin to do so. It is not correct to say that the graduate dental hygienists with a valid visa are unable to get to work. Through the various stakeholders we have learned that all graduate dental hygienists have found a job in the field of dental care. So they can get started and are paid like any bachelor, but their transactions are currently outside compulsory insurance and are not reimbursed. This is, moreover, the case for a great deal of care provided by paramedics and other healthcare professionals. After all, the healthcare budget is not inexhaustible. New reimbursement initiatives require sound research and are not implemented from today to tomorrow. Think of the path we have already taken and still have ahead of us in terms of the reimbursement of psychological care. As you point out, a study on a new financing model, integrating dental hygienists into the dental sector, was included in the amendment to the 2017-2018 national dental health fund agreement in the 2019 amendment. The necessary resources were made available for that investigation, but the amendment clause did not enter into force until 25 July 2019. It took until that date for the entry rate of dentists to comply with the legal requirements, which was one of the conditions. Therefore, the examination of a new financing model which is part of that modification clause could not start until that date. In the meantime, the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds had drawn up a draft note for that research, which was also proposed to my policy cell. It was found that the draft note is highly oriented towards one specific dental provision, namely tartar cleaning. However, the aim is to have a sufficiently broad view of how a dental hygienist can be used in the field of dental care. So we see it a little bit wider. It is not our intention to train people who will only remove tartar every working day of their lives. How can we ever keep these people motivated? We would therefore like to broaden the scope of this task. If a dental hygienist can only clean tartar, it makes little sense for a dentist to recruit a dental hygienist. That is why I have taken the initiative to send a new framework to the National Committee on Dental and Medical Funds with the direction I intend to give to that project, in particular a broader framework. The debate on the place of oral hygiene in future dental care will therefore certainly continue. The dental hygienists are involved in those conversations. In fact, representatives of colleges offering dental hygienist training were invited to that working group, where they could also explain their training plans and internship plans. We closely monitor the work of the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds and the Technical Dental Council, so that they can draw conclusions and make recommendations for a successful financing model.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u34	Mr President, Minister, there is now a professional association. It may therefore be appropriate to write down its members and ask them to take part in the working group. That would be very useful. After all, they have been able to organize themselves quite well in that short period of time. I fully agree that dental hygienists should not only remove tartar, but that their tasks are much wider. That is precisely where the problem lies. They should be used much more widely, including for the weakest in society who have more difficult access to dental care and, for example, more difficult to brush themselves. It would be good if the dental hygienists were to be used optimally. The financing model in this area is therefore pressing. I also understood that the financing model is a model in which not all dental hygienists but only a limited group can participate. It would also apply for a period of five years. My proposal is to examine whether it is not possible to shorten the period and allow more dental hygienists to take part in the study so that the resources can be spread among as many dental hygienists as possible and be used as effectively as possible for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u35	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, there has been only one year left with graduates. So it's not going to be about hundreds of thousands. I will, however, check it out. I also want to see if the professional association can be invited. However, I do not invite you. I find it hard to invite people to a meeting organized by others. However, I will ask whether the professional association can also be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u36	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55000779C, 55000780C and 55000781C by Mrs Van Hoof are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u37	Madam Minister, my question dates from the beginning of October, when Flemish Minister Ben Weyts stated that the Flemish Government will set up a Flemish Planning Committee to help determine the needs of doctors and dentists. That committee will therefore determine at Flemish level how many candidate doctors and dental practitioners may begin the studies. He immediately added that the Flemish government no longer feels bound by the quotas that are federally imposed, because they have not cared about them on the other side of the language border for decades. I believe that this is a perfectly justified decision, which we can fully support. It also indicates that the federal policy in this area is completely bankrupt and, above all, that the division of powers that has been devised in the past is in fact going a long way. If Flanders will now also start students in medicine and dentistry in relation to the quotas, the question arises as to whether these students will also receive a RIZIV number after completing their studies. This has been done for the students on the Walloon side for 20 years. Is it not better to completely defederalise matters, as it turns out that the federal government has lost all control over this policy aspect? Madam Secretary, I come to my specific questions. Do you guarantee that the Flemish students will have a RIZIV number after completing their studies? Secondly, I have already seen from the newspaper reports at the time that you thought it was a bad idea. How do you respond to the Flemish Government's intention to start students in addition to the studies? Do you not also consider the analysis, given that there is no federal control over this policy aspect, that it is better to completely defederalise the issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u38	Minister, according to the recent agreement of the Flemish Government, Flanders will set up its own planning commission to determine Flemish health care needs. It is apparently on the basis of the recommendations of this new commission that "the number of students admitted to the training of doctors and dentists will be determined and not only on the basis of the federal opinion that Flanders is the only one to follow for twenty years". The National Planning Commission has, however, for several years now been doing an enormous amount of work to determine the needs of care professionals in our country, even though you have decided not to follow its recommendations under the previous legislature. My group strongly denounced it. Of course, in the agreement of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, a planning commission is also mentioned but only to determine the subquotas for which the federated entities are competent. The planning committee referred to in the Flemish agreement seems to be otherwise, since it should also determine the number of students admitted to medical and dental training. Madam Minister, does this decision of the Flemish government call into question the very existence of the National Planning Commission? Is her expertise being questioned here? Do you know exactly what the role of the new commission will be? As Federal Minister of Public Health, you obviously have a primary responsibility to cover the health care needs of our country as a whole, from north to south. What, then, will be the quotas currently decided by the federal level? Is that to say that, as the Federal Minister of Public Health, you would no longer have a say in the quotas for doctors in Flanders? Does the Flemish Region remain within its competence by deciding to fix the number of students unilaterally without taking into account the decisions taken at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u39	Mrs Pas, Mrs Tillieux, I was not at the negotiating table. This was dealt with by the Department of Education. I assume that the role of the Flemish Planning Committee will be to give opinions on subquotas. They are competent to do so, and they can advise on it. As you know, since the sixth state reform, the federal government has been responsible for setting global federal quotas per community, but the power to establish subquotas per specialty has been transferred to the Communities. The Communities are therefore represented on the Federal Planning Committee. I do not read anywhere that the Flemish Planning Committee would have the power to set global quotas for the Flemish Community, nor that quotas would be called into question. You may have other information. I believe that the words of Minister Weyts may be somewhat nuanced, especially since his party has always defended the need for federal quotas with fire and has been a strong supporter of a robust filter at the start of basic training on the one hand and an effective enforcement mechanism at the start of the professional internship on the other. It's all in the law. You suggest that in the coming years students in addition will be promoted to the Flemish faculties of Medicine. I also have a reaction from the deans on the subject. You ask whether the federal government will grant these students access to the professional internship and the profession. This question is not for me to answer. This decision must be taken by another federal government. Furthermore, it is not possible at the moment to predict how many students will eventually be promoted. This can only be known at the end of basic training, and that is after six years. I would, however, like to point out that the federal legislation in question must also be respected by all the federated entities. As I have said on several occasions, the number of students at the beginning of the basic training is not the only indicator of the number of students at the end of the career who will eventually have access to the profession. Some students stop their studies on the way, for various reasons. What is certain, however, is that in 2024 and subsequent years more students will have access to the internship than originally planned. This was a decision taken within the federal government because the Planning Commission had found a deficit. It has therefore been planned to remedy this deficit in the Act of 22 March 2018 amending the Act on the Exercise of the Health Care Professions (LEPS), in accordance with the above-mentioned Commission Opinion No 3 of 2017. This opinion had been issued taking into account the training capacity of medical schools in Flanders, but also in Wallonia. In practical terms, this means that the quotas for 2024 and 2025 for the Flemish Community have been increased by 69 students per year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The number of students admitted has increased. Today, however, there are 286 Flemish students who, although they have passed the entrance examination, are not allowed to start because they are declared unfavourable. Some of them have rightly gone to court to charge that everyone can start on the French-speaking side. There the quotas are simply ignored.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u41	What you're saying isn't true. One is a competition, and the other has succeeded or failed. But in either case, anyone can start. It's not true what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u42	Then I hope the students will be right in court. I am touched that Mrs Tillieux is concerned because the federal decisions on medical quotas are being implemented. On the French-speaking side we have heard a different story for decades. Madam Minister, it is easy to say that it is not up to you to judge that. You could defend the Flemish students in this respect. I am convinced that, despite all your efforts to find a solution, in which I have always supported you in the past legislature, concessions have yet again been made through a royal decision and that there is simply no federal solution if the manifest unwillingness on the other side continues. It can't be that Flanders is the only good boy to keep following the rules. I hope that it was not an announcement policy of Flemish Minister Weyts but that it will be carried out in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u43	Mr President, I hear what has just been said. We can't agree at all. I think everyone is trying to allow coverage of the territory for the provision of services and care. This is a question that deserves better than this community struggle. I believe that the Planning Commission is at best trying to assess the prospects of supply; we must allow it to continue its work. Minister, I know you respect this desire to find the best solutions. You can admit it's not always simple. However, I believe that the situation of your government today, in current, minority affairs, does not facilitate the task either. Let us hope that a successful outcome for a future government will allow us to move forward on these issues!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u44	I think this deserves a debate. The solution we have sought was a solution for all students. And for the students on the way because they were the victims of the community impasse. Mrs Pas, I also found a solution for the number of about 200 Flemish students last year, who otherwise threatened to become victims and would not receive a RIZIV number after graduation after six or seven years of studies, and some even longer. The student shouldn't be the victim. We need motivated people to become doctors on both sides of the country. There is a plethora for some subquotas, for some specialties, while there are shortages in other branches. I always hear shouting about shortages on the French-speaking side. I myself studied in times of plethora and I knew doctors who were happy that their partner had a modest income, because they didn't deserve the salt on their patts. That does not give good quality health care. That's what it's about for me, that the patient has motivated doctors, wherever he lives in this country, and that there's quality health care. That was a really hard search. Mrs Tillieux, I would have had much less work had it not been necessary to find a solution. I would like to say that the previous governments were not always easy, either. But let's be modest! Everyone did the right thing. The arm was necessary to convince Mr. Marcourt to have an entry examination. This was cancelled by the Council of State. So he set up his contest. This has changed again and now exists. Mrs Crevits had foreseen an entry test and that has become a competition. I find that ambiguous, too. If the results of the test were previously requested, the screen either turned red, and then one could not start, or the screen turned green, and then one could start. Now it says "you have succeeded but not conveniently ranked." That is indeed demotivating for those people. Emotionally, I understand that these people go to court because they don't think that's the way to do it. Can't one say as in school it's not good enough to start or it's good enough to start? It used to be much clearer and now there's a flou artistique. It is supposedly the result of it, but it is not conveniently ranked. What are these people gonna think about that? Honestly, one has to think about what one does with those young people. They may undertake other studies, but some remain fixed on those medical studies. I welcome the fact that we have so many motivated people, but we need to be able to train them. We must be able to train them in our hospitals in order to achieve a good quality of care. That is also the concern of the deans. They're wondering if their faculties can handle that. We had to install an entry test for veterinarians in Wallonia, because there were far too many veterinarians. Veterinarians were outnumbered. This is not good, because education is not of the same quality when you are four following someone who already has a specialization, or you are doing it in side by side, as has been said. As a federal minister, the quality of care is still my concern. I wouldn't like to visit a dentist or a specialist who didn't have the right education or developed the right skills. I have heard that dental students in Wallonia took a year longer because they did not have enough knowledge. It is a practical training course and one must have dealt with all kinds of teeth. I wouldn't want to hear during my visit to the dentist that he or she doesn't know how to treat a particular tooth. That's not quality dental care or health care anymore, is it? Do we want to go there? They must all be able to start and end their studies, but we must not preach to those people. The danger is that patients will be afraid to be treated by such poorly trained people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u45	Thank you for your comments, Madam Secretary. It is an important debate. I have therefore given you the floor, but now the floor is back to Mrs Pas and then to Mrs Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u46	It is indeed worth a debate, Madam Secretary. I also fully share your concerns about the quality of the training. We are in complete agreement on this. We clearly do not agree that this can be achieved at the federal level. As long as we do not want to participate on the French-speaking side, and as long as, in other words, the bill goes into the federal health budget, the French-speaking people do not care. It must stop once and for all that Flanders always plays the good one in the class and that we always pay the bill. In such a context, you will not find a solution. I am convinced that we must pursue our own policies for the Flemish students, precisely in order to respond to all the concerns that you have just raised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u47	Mr President, I hear the views of the minister who wants quality training and who is concerned about the quality of the students. I am not in favour of excluding people on the basis of a test result at a given time. I think you have to be able to give the students the chance even when their first exam is not the brightest. Some can, by means of work, courage and will, achieve this famous quality in their learning. This is obviously a different perception of yours, Madam Minister, even if the objective remains the same, namely to cover the territory in terms of the provision of care, of general practitioners and specialists where they are expected. On this point, there is work to be done to ask young people to move towards jobs that are still in short supply. We know the specialties with obvious lacks. That's where we're going to have to work, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u48	Questions Nos 55000848C and 55000850C by Ms Merckx are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u49	Madam Minister, according to the press, every year hundreds of false prescriptions of medicines circulate in Belgium. These are usually copies of prescriptions made by a doctor or by the patient himself or of original prescriptions stolen by the patient himself. According to the latest available figures, 107 false prescriptions were reported in 2017 and 103 doctors were affected by them. It is important to note that these are only reports because, in practice, the number of prescriptions for falsified medicines is much higher. It appears that it is in Flanders that the reports for false prescriptions are the most numerous. Minister, how can we effectively combat false prescriptions before electronic prescriptions are soon to become more widely available? Do you intend to take action? Have you ever decided to take it? If so, what are they? What types of medicines are usually obtained through these false prescriptions? Can you detail the source of these reports? How do we explain that there are the most reports in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u50	Mr Prévot, the pharmacist detecting a false prescription is invited to inform the Prosecutor's Office of the King of the judicial district on which he depends. It is also invited to suggest that certain prejudicers file a complaint. If the pharmacist sends the false prescription by mail to the inspector of the pharmacy of the jurisdiction, the latter will forward it himself to the prosecutor concerned. When notified by one of their members, professional associations representing pharmacists shall make the information received available to other members. Moreover, compliance with the European Regulation on the protection of personal data severely restricts the possibility of transferring such information from one address to another or of holding a summary file. Starting in 2020, electronic prescription becomes mandatory, making falsification significantly more difficult. The drug categories identified are psychostimulants such as methylphenidates; opioid- and morphine-type painkillers (fentanyl, tramadol, oxycodone) and benzodiazepine-type sleeping pills and their derivatives (diazepam, zolpidem). It is primarily pharmacists who observe and report these facts. Sometimes doctors who are victims of these acts also inform AFMPS. They are the same when they have been the subject of a prescription theft or their stamp. The Medical Assessment and Control Service responds in two ways to this problem. First, it examines the exchange and flow of information between suspended providers and insurers and possibly with other parties. If prescription books have been stolen from health care providers, attempts are made to retrieve them through data analysis, such as the place where these prescriptions are used, while sharing this information with the police and the prosecutor's office. I do not have data or studies that allow me to explain this difference between the regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u51	Minister, thank you for taking a snapshot of the situation. Indeed, when electronic requirements are generalized in 2020, we should logically see a drastic reduction in the number of frauds. That's a good thing. But I understand you're leaving the door open to other false electronic prescriptions this time. I also thank you for listing the medicines most frequently targeted by these false prescriptions. This overlaps with the information I had received on the subject. Thank you for telling me that pharmacists were the main whistleblowers about these false prescriptions, along with doctors who noticed theft of their notebook or stamp.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u52	They have to report it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u53	They must do so directly. Therefore, we will evaluate the new electronic requirements. I hope that they will be able to completely curb the phenomenon of false prescriptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u54	Minister, since June 2017, the antiretroviral Truvada has been reimbursed to people at high risk of HIV infection, mainly men who have sex with men and people from sub-Saharan Africa. This is an excellent initiative that my group welcomed. In order to qualify for reimbursement of this treatment, an evaluation by a specialist doctor attached to an AIDS reference centre having concluded a functional rehabilitation agreement with INAMI is required. Minister, can you specify the criteria and conditions? Have you taken stock of this measure? Has the effectiveness been demonstrated? A little more than two years after its implementation, could you tell us how many people have been able to benefit from this treatment to date? On average, how long is the reimbursement for patients? What is the annual budget for this measure? It appears that the refund authorization is valid for a maximum of 12 months. Has this period sometimes been extended? Finally, could this reimbursement be extended in the future to other risk groups such as injectable drug users?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u55	Mr Prévot, the pharmaceutical specialties based on emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil are refundable under the conditions set out in Chapter 4, § 875 of the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018; I can provide you with a copy. As far as the balance sheet and effectiveness are concerned, you will find in the appendix an initial evaluation which has given rise to a scientific article, of which you will receive a copy. A second evaluation, with more recent figures, was presented at the BREACH symposium in November 2018. I'll send you a link to access the presentation. In 2018, 2,333 patients were reimbursed for Truvada in this indication. It is difficult to determine an average duration of treatment given that in this indication, the use of the medicinal product is made on a case-by-case basis depending on the risk situations to which the patient is exposed. There is no average duration of treatment in this context. The data we will have in the coming years will probably allow us to answer this question later, but in 2018, the annual budget for reimbursement in this indication was approximately €6.6 million. To answer the question about the proportion of authorities subject to an extension, unfortunately we do not have the figures to date. However, in view of the increasing number of patients treated in this indication since 2017, it can be estimated that much of the authorisations granted are currently being extended. With regard to the extension to other groups such as injecting drug users, the reimbursement is already in effect in this specific case, as you can see from the terms of reimbursement. You also find the reason why doctors should be attached to an AIDS reference centre. Data recording is necessary to determine if our method of work is good. Does that help people? Is awareness sufficient? The physician undertakes to arrange follow-up visits to the patient concerned every three months and to carry out the other recommended tests, as for STDs. Everything that is done in these centres makes it possible to better surround the patient. There is no point in giving Truvada treatment and failing to evaluate STDs. You have to have a certain way of working that serves as a reference. I'll give you all the necessary data; you can study them on your next weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u56	Madam Minister, I am going back with documentation. Thank you for passing it on to me. As I said in my question, we welcomed this refund. I'll keep two numbers. I understand that 2,333 patients were reimbursed for Truvada treatment in 2018 and that the 2018 budget earmarked for these refunds was 6.6 million euros. This proactive policy must be pursued. I have heard that enlargement is already in place for injecting drug users. Other risk groups may also benefit. It is a treatment that has demonstrated its effectiveness and usefulness. I therefore hope that we can continue to pursue a proactive policy in relation to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Hoof's 55000895C is postponed at her request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u58	Madam Minister, you will understand that I am not always a fan of the Panoreportages, but the Panoreportage of 9 October 2019 shows that in the world of temporary beauty interventions through the so-called injectables, such as botox and fillers, with which I myself do not have much experience, there are many instances of regulation in this area and with public health in general. Despite the fact that many beauty salons do respect the regulations, even though we have doubts about them after seeing the Panoreportage and they have the injections carried out by qualified staff, being doctors, the sector also appears to be suffering from a number of cowboys, who do not shy away from dangerous practices because of the euros they want to earn from them. The fact that not only unauthorized and/or insufficiently qualified doctors carry out the injections, but even persons without any medical training and/or background, poses a clear risk to public health. Madam Minister, do you recognize, first of all, the problem outlined in the Panoreportage of 9 October? Secondly, do you believe that there is a lack of control over the administration of injections to beauty treatments? How many checks were carried out in this context? What were the results of the checks? What conclusions do you draw from that? Thirdly, what do you think is due to the fact that a significant proportion of the providers of such treatments are involved in the regulatory process? I do not, of course, ask you to look into the psyche of those involved, but whether you know the cause. Finally, what measures will you take to better enforce compliance with the law of 23 May 2013 regulating the qualifications required to carry out interventions of non-healing aesthetic medicine and aesthetic surgery?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u59	Madam Minister, my question concerns the same subject, namely the same reportage in Pano, which showed that it is very easy to obtain prescription medicines that are also used for cosmetic interventions, such as Botox. It goes without saying that medicinal products in non-professional hands may pose a risk to the health of the patient or the consumer. In what way does the Public Health Office check whether prescription drugs are only used by the right professionals? How many infringements of the use of prescription drugs were detected in the period 2014-2018? Are any of the infringements definitively passed on to the court? If not, what criteria are used?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u60	Madam Minister, my questions are prompted by the same reportage and deal on the one hand with the same product and, on the other hand, with the guarantees for patients or users regarding the controls on the substances in the products concerned. So I'm not talking about administering it. As I asked last week about online purchases of prescription drugs, I am concerned about patient safety. How do you guarantee the safety of the consumer injected into a beauty institute? How can the patient check whether he or she is being treated with legitimate medicinal products or with products purchased online by persons who are not authorised to do so? How will you control those funds and limit their sale to the pharmacies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u61	Madam Minister, I would like to build on what the other speakers have said. After all, it is about the same reportage about botox and fillers at any price. Madam Secretary, the PGC must detect the illegal practice of medical professions or health professions. How many checks does the committee carry out on the illegal pursuit of medical activities every year? How often has there been unlawful practice, particularly in the context of plastic reconstructive surgery? Is it true that the PGC will focus on beauty salons and institutions that offer cosmetic interventions, such as injecting botox and fillers, and that it will carry out more targeted checks on them? In addition, many foreign professionals who offered the administration of botox in the back rooms were mainly shown in the reportage. I wonder whether extra control is being exercised on that group too? Does the FAGG check who buys botox online and whether they are trained health providers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u62	Thank you all for your questions. Unfortunately, that report did indeed provide an objective picture of cosmetic practices by persons who do not fulfil the conditions for the practice of medicine as laid down in the law on the exercise of healthcare professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015. Reference is also rightly made to the framework for non-healing aesthetic medicine, as laid down in the Law of 23 May 2013. By this law, the Royal Decree No. 78, now the law on the exercise of health professions, supplemented. This law is sufficiently clear. It clearly describes the non-healing aesthetic powers intended. It also provides for the establishment of a Council for Medical Aesthetics and the recognition of doctors-specialists in non-healing aesthetic medicine at level 2, as defined in the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991, which lists the special professional titles reserved for practitioners of medicine. As far as the medical profession is concerned, I have asked the Supreme Court for advice from doctors-specialists and general practitioners. This council advocates the creation of a level 3 title. In other words, the title in non-healing medicine is then obtained on top of an existing level 2 title. This proposal is motivated, among other things, by the fact that special competences can already be acquired in part in another specialism and that it is difficult to define and recognise placements only for this specialism. I also think that it would be desirable for the law to be amended to include the Medical Aesthetic Board in the Supreme Council of Doctors and GPs, not only in order to ensure organisational and budgetary efficiency, but also in order to ensure that the examination of health-related aspects is as multidisciplinary as possible. A second element is the detection of the unlawful practice of medicine. The inspectors of the Public Health Office do not now have the power to enter premises where they are likely to engage in unlawful practice of medicine. However, I have made efforts to extend the investigative powers of the medical inspectors under the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in health care. It will be important in the future to continue investing in this enforcement as the new possibilities of this law are put into practice. I have therefore asked the FOD, the RIZIV and the FAGG to intensify the possibilities for cooperation between the inspections. The inspectors of the Public Health Office shall report any unlawful practice of medicine in beauty institutes or elsewhere to the public prosecutor if they are informed of it. If the public prosecutor asks, they will also assist in a search. Such a search cannot be carried out by the inspectors alone, the public prosecutor has to search the premises and then they go along with it to make findings. This year, for example, 23 reports concerning the illegal exercise in beauty institutions have already been sent to the parquet by FPS inspectors. Between 2015 and 2018 it was 85 notifications. Good cooperation with the public prosecutors is necessary if public health legislation is to be properly enforced. The reason for the fact that a significant proportion of the providers of such treatments are involved in the regulation is partly ignorance. Unfortunately, I must also note that some of the actions are taught in certain training courses permitted by the Länder, in the form of training cheques. Those students don't really know what they do and what they can't do. Of course, it is also a little out of profit that they are doing these actions. The third element concerns the delivery of Botox. Botox is delivered on prescription through the public-open officials and pharmacies in hospitals. A pharmacist in an open official can deliver Botox to a doctor on his or her emergency equipment. Botox is not a product that needs liters. A prescription medicinal product cannot be delivered by the pharmacist via distance selling of medicinal products. It is true that the FAGG supervises any illegal sale of medicines on the Internet, such as Botox. This is mainly based on notifications, but also received complaints and findings on the ground. Prescription of off-label applications, such as for Botox in cosmetic applications, is permitted only under the individual responsibility of the physician as an application of his or her therapeutic freedom. However, the condition is that this use is carefully considered and always based on scientific evidence and safety. In addition, the patient should be explicitly informed in advance and the patient should agree to the off-label use. The FAGG has no power to control or investigate off-label use. Medicinal products based on botulin toxin were subject to risk de minimis activities until 2016, restrictions on prescription, delivery mode, distribution, use or administration of the medicinal product. The effectiveness of the material related to risk de minimis activities was evaluated on the basis of spontaneous reports of adverse reactions by the different European Member States before and after the introduction of that RMA material. As the annual frequency of reports was consistently low and remained constant despite the introduction of the RMA material and a significant increase in drug exposure, the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee of the European Medicines Agency EMA considered that the educational material was no longer necessary. That is the state of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I note that as possible causes of the phenomenon, you are heading in the same direction as I did last week or the week before that, with regard to illegal injectable peptide preparations. That's a punk tonguebreaker, I have to admit. What do we determine? First of all, it's based on ignorance, you say. I can see that. There are a number of people who take courses and then don't really have an idea what to do. I think, however, that there are some who know only too well what should and should not be allowed to do so and that this should rather be framed in the whole of the crooked figures. I am certainly pleased to hear that you want to continue to invest in the enforcement of legislation in this area and that you also want to strengthen inspection in this area. The only thing that surprised me is that they are not allowed to enter a building to make findings, unlike the Food Inspectorate, which can make such findings, if I am not mistaken. That surprised me, and that might be something we should be working on in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u64	Madam Minister, Ignorance might be possible, but on the other hand, when people are injected with substances, people would know the country's legislation to know how this is done. Unfortunately, this is very popular and also very lucrative, which maintains each other: a doctor will recommend it rather than advise against it. It is, of course, still a medical act and we must remain vigilant in informing and warning potential patients or customers about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u65	Madam Secretary, boulinet oxide is a neurotoxic poison. You know that, and we all know that, and that absolutely must be handled with caution. I would just like to talk about what my colleagues are saying, namely that ignorance is a very easy excuse to hide away when someone injects something into someone. There's only two ways to get those shots. Either you buy them here in a pharmacy on prescription from a doctor, or you buy them online on some platform. In both cases, a law is broken. On the one hand, when a doctor prescribes it, it is intended that he injects it himself and not that it is done by, for example, a beauty specialist. One may have the good quality of the botox syringe, but perhaps not the good quality of medical care. On the other hand, when a beauty centre orders botox injections via an online platform, it is well known that this is prohibited by law. I would therefore urge you and your services to carry out very thorough checks here in the interests of our patients, of our citizens. It's all imagined as if it's nothing. This is a very commercial matter. People think they're just about a shot, but we need to protect our patients and our citizens from those commercial practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u66	We must also protect them from themselves. The result is not always beautiful. This is accompanied by inflammation, complications or allergic reactions. Then we'll be performing, too. If one goes to the hospital afterwards with complications, usually in the face, to paralysis, then we also occur. Then they'll have to tell us where it happened. The patient also bears responsibility for this. It's a hype in young girls and sometimes in men. Forever young, they say, but they also start young. I know 22-year-old girls who use botox and fillers. It's from America, I suppose. We're doing everything we can, but botox is very hot right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u67	Yeah, it's trendy in kids. I do know a lot of young ladies who experiment with that. I therefore hope that we will be able to act much more strictly and that inspections will be possible if signals of illegal practices are received. I understand the inspectors are not allowed to enter the premises. When will they be allowed to do so, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u68	I have already said that they can make observations if they are taken by the court. However, they themselves have no legal basis for entering into residence. That is, of course, another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u69	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Rigot's 55000941C and 55000960C were postponed. If Mrs Van Hoof is still not present later on, her question will also be put to the House. 55000948C postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u70	Madam Secretary, several maples in the region around Kortrijk have been infected with soot bark disease. It's caused by mold that gives the tree black spots. The disease is blown over from America. When the tree is infected with the soot bark disease, there is nothing left to do about it. The only solution is to grab the tree. That must also be done in a special way. It has to rain or the tree must be cut during cutting. This makes it harder for the spores of the fungus to spread. Tree skinlers should also wear protective clothing and a mouth mask. The soot mold can cause lung infections and various allergies, both in humans and animals, with long-term contact. It is not easy to stop the fungus and the fungus expands easily. Madam Minister, first of all, is it a mainly West Flemish problem or are there reports from other provinces? Secondly, how many reports were there this year and can be compared to previous years? Third, are doctors sufficiently aware of the possible cause of pulmonary diseases? Fourthly, have reports of extrinsic allergic alveolitis due to soot bark disease already been recorded? Fifthly, can we speak of a danger to public health, given the easy spread of the fungus and the dangers that the fungus can pose to humans? Sixthly, are local authorities informed of the dangers posed by the fungus, so that they can take adequate protective measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u71	Mrs Sneppe, it is the Flemish Region that collects the reports of the presence of soot bark disease. As for your question as to whether reports are being made in other provinces, this question should be addressed by a colleague of yours to the Flemish Region. We have no knowledge of that. Are the doctors sufficiently informed? Perhaps the alertness to the condition is low, as it is a recent phenomenon in our country. Doctors do know that fungi are generally a possible cause of extrinsic allergic alveolitis, which has a clear symptomatology, for which one does not even need a stethoscope to hear it. After all, people are squeaking. Sciensano has not received any reports regarding extrinsic allergic alveolitis due to soot bark disease. We have also contacted the National Reference Centre Mycology and we had no knowledge of cases of EAA due to soot bark disease. Inhalation of the traces of cryptostroma corticale can lead to inflammation of the alveoli, on an allergic basis. According to the literature, in which only a limited number of cases can be found, it can be acute in humans, due to exposure to large amounts of fungal spores, with symptoms disappearing when exposure disappears. In rare cases, chronic extrinsic allergic alveolitis may be developed, but this requires sustained long-term exposure to large amounts of fungal spores. They will, both in homes and in cold rooms. I once experienced a butcher get sick when he went to work, because there were fungi present in the cooling cells. During the holidays he got air again. It takes a while to find out. The Flemish Institute for Nature and Forest Research is working on a directive on the precautions to be taken when removing trees affected by soot bark disease. Finally, as regards your question about informing local authorities, that is a matter for the Länder. Welcome to Belgium, Flanders, Wallonia and the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u72	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Forgive me if I have not yet mastered the division of powers, but I hope I can within five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u73	You're gonna need your five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u74	You say that there is only a low alertness for soot bark fungal infections, probably because few cases have been reported. It might be good to increase that alertness, as there have already been only cases of soot mold. The fungus spreads easily and quickly. A wheezing breath can have several causes. The soot mold may end up in the forgotten corner. The alertness may therefore be increased a bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u75	Mr President, Minister, the Belgian Competition Authority invaded the pharmaceutical company Roche during the week of 7 October 2019. However, the UZ Ghent also got detectives over the floor that week. The searches should clarify the way in which pharmaceutical companies prevent competitors from selling their equally effective medicines to hospitals and the role of hospitals in this. Roche and the UZ Gent, according to the Hearing Officer General, are only examples of a general system that prevents white products of biological medicinal products from gaining ground in the country. We saw at the hearings that this is indeed a problem. These are complex medicines, including cancer medicines and rheumatic drugs. The UZ Ghent isn't the only hospital. A series of hospitals received a letter from the Competition Authority requesting urgent information on suppliers, contracts and communications with pharmaceutical companies between 2017 and 2019. Those are the things we heard from the press. That is why I have the following questions. How many hospitals are we talking about? Is there an equal distribution across both parts of the country? In the light of these practices, will you ask the BMA to check all hospitals? Will you revisit the relationship with the pharmaceutical industry, now that the sector is in the news again? Is there any insight into any open and transparent cooperation with the pharmaceutical companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u76	Mr President, Minister, my question is on another subject. She's in charge of the BMA. However, the questions have been merged. Both my question and Mrs Gijbels' question relate to the fine of EUR 225,000 granted to the Order of Pharmacies, following a complaint from the BMA because she considered the advertising mechanisms to be a restriction on the commercial possibilities of online chemists. As a result, the Order has developed a new deontological code. Madam Secretary, what is your view on the scope of online and offline advertising by pharmacists? Will you change your vision as a result of the BMA's statement? I have heard that the code of ethics would allow proportional advertising. I have a specific question on that. Will a chain of pharmacies be assessed in a different way than the self-employed pharmacist? How will the Minister guarantee responsible use by the patient in the new situation in which advertising can reach the patient very frequently?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u77	Madam Minister, my question relates to the impact of the BMA's ruling on the Order of Pharmacies. They have been fined EUR 225,000 because their deontological code would allow too little advertising of pharmaceutical products. These are mainly advertising mechanisms which my colleague has already mentioned. This complaint was lodged with the BMA by certain online Pharmacies because they consider this to be a limitation of their commercial capabilities. Madam Secretary, how will you assist the Order of Pharmacies to comply with this ruling? Do you think that this assistance should include a financial part? The discrepancy lies mainly in the fact that the Order of Pharmacies was established to guard the deontology, at the request of the government. To what extent does this ruling of the BMA lead to a discrepancy between the view of the Order of the FPS Health and the FPS Economy respectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u78	There were searches by the Belgian Competition Authority at Roche and the UZ Gent. We assume that more has happened, but we don't know exactly where. The Belgian Competition Authority is an independent body within the competence of the Minister for Economic Affairs. It is the authority that determines the scope of the investigation and we await its results. The European Court of Justice has already ruled on this. The Court has held that an absolute prohibition on the advertising of pharmacists goes too far and is contrary to European law. In accordance with this European case law, it was decided to establish a uniform regime for all healthcare professions in the field of publicity. This resulted in the law of 30 October 2018 laying down various provisions. It was re-established in the law of 22 April 2019 on quality practice in healthcare. This was done following a European judgment in a case brought by a dentist, Mr Vanderborght. Pharmacists, like all healthcare professionals, are thus allowed to declare their practice in a neutral manner, but only under the conditions laid down in the law, i.e. objective, relevant, verifiable and not incite unnecessary investigations or treatments. The practice should also not recruit patients. The BMA's ruling has no influence on this. I would also like to make it clear that these are parapharmaceutical products. Irresponsible use cannot be excluded, since they are also for sale in, for example, grocery stores. In connection with the fine and in the context of the settlement procedure with the BMA, the Order of Pharmacies committed itself to adjusting its deontological code. I do not see where I have to intervene in adjusting the deontological code of order. I even fear that any intervention from the policy would be perceived as very undesirable. The Order of Pharmacists is an independent body and has therefore entered into this commitment autonomously. It is therefore not my competence to check whether the deontological rules are in conformity with competition law. In order to fulfil its tasks, the pharmacists registered on the list contribute through an annual contribution, but you already know that. The BMA is also an independent body and I cannot act in these decisions at all. The vision of the role of the Order of Pharmacies does not change, but in carrying out its mission, both Belgian legislation and European law must be respected. Furthermore, we have worked constructively with the pharmaceutical sector in the last legislative period to give patients rapid and sustainable access to innovative medicines. This has been done in the form of the future pact for patients and the pharmaceutical sector. In that pact, we have worked out a solution to many challenges, also in terms of greater transparency in the sector. We have brought transparency to the financial relations between healthcare professionals and the industrial sector. This concerns all premiums and benefits granted by the pharmaceutical industry to various health professionals, with only a few exceptions, such as professional donations in kind of very low value, such as an agenda, a box of tongue spatulas or gloves, free samples of medicinal products or discounts and economic margins. The legal transparency obligation already applies from 1 January 2017. Anyone can find the results on the website betransparent.be. This does not include hospital contracts with their suppliers. The remaining challenges of transparency in the sector is a definite fact. This can also be addressed in a subsequent pact. My preference is indeed to work together in a constructive dialogue with the sector rather than a media confrontation. If I have the opportunity, through cooperation with the industry, to provide patients with fast and sustainable access to innovative medicines while at the same time finding solutions to the many challenges and problems in this sector, I will not fail to do so. You asked if it's different for a chain than for an individual pharmacy. Not normally. A deontology is the same for everyone. Responsibility, too. So I do not see why a difference should be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u79	Madam Secretary, I understand you will await the investigation. I will not therefore continue to urge you to answer my questions 2, 3 and 4. When the investigation is completed, I'll re-table them. Hopefully I'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u80	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I also believe that the Order would not appreciate any intervention from you. However, I would like to reiterate my concern about this. In the caselaw, proportionate measures for a chain will be interpreted differently than for the pharmacy around the corner. It will be very difficult for the patient when advertising is allowed everywhere. You called it "calling patients," but there's still a difference between recruiting patients and warming patients. We just talked about Botox. Well, as for information about Botox, people are very sensitive to information about food supplements. They go along with that very easily. We must protect them from over-consumption of these parapharmaceuticals. There are challenges in the sector, on which we absolutely agree. A new future pact is urgently under discussion. Our patients must have access to innovative medicines and have access to them in a modern way, but preferably at their home pharmacy, so that there is control and a shared pharmaceutical file is guaranteed. In relation to transparency, I think it is a good measure to report what is being offered to patients. The ristornos, which have been in existence for a long time, must also be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u81	Mr President, Minister, it is logical that you cannot or should not intervene specifically in the Code of the Order. However, my point of view was that there was a certain tension between the Order of Pharmacies which tried to carry out its task well in the context of protecting the public interest and having its code implemented, and the Competition Authority which was calling on it to do so. I understand the Order of Pharmacies is going to modify its deontological code. However, it is also very important that we never lose sight of the role of the pharmacist as a care provider and expert in the field of medication, so that there is always a clear distinction with the commercial sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u82	Madam Minister, following the insurance committee's budget proposal-2020, news came that patients who were told from 1 July that they are suffering from Alzheimer's disease will no longer be able to count on the reimbursement of the cure for that disease. Christian mutuality also started a procedure to review the reimbursement of funds against Alzheimer's disease. The medication against Alzheimer's disease has been under attack for a long time, including in France. For example, in mid-2018 the French government stopped paying the reimbursement, after the independent Haute Autorité de Santé concluded that the medicines available for Alzheimer's are not effective or very low. Madam Minister, is the report correct and will therefore not be reimbursed for medicines against Alzheimer's disease? Are all medicines for Alzheimer's disease, in particular memantine, galantamine, rivastigmine and donepezil, or only one medicine? Is there sufficient evidence that these medicines do not lead to a better standard of living? What concrete evidence or study is ahead of it? If these drugs aren't working, why are they being prescribed? Are doctors sufficiently informed? How many people have Alzheimer's disease in Belgium? Has advice been sought from the Alzheimer's League on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u83	Mr. President, Madam Minister, according to a study of Christian Mutuality conducted with more than 100,000 members concerned, anti-Alzheimer drugs would not be sufficiently effective. Indeed, according to Mutuality, the usefulness of medicines is not demonstrated and their side effects are important. The Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (CBIP) confirms this lack of efficacy. According to CBIP, drugs do not have a preventive effect on the development of the disease; moreover, they do little to improve the quality of life of patients and their families. However, their use has a cost for INAMI of approximately EUR 5 million. Minister, have you been able to read the results of the study of Christian Mutuality? If so, what do you hold back? What about the effectiveness of these medicines? Do you intend to question the repayment of these, as some suggest?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u84	Mr President, the issue of the reimbursement of medicines against Alzheimer's disease was discussed at the Bureau of the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting on 20 August 2019. This was in the footsteps of a recently completed study of the Christian Mutualities. The basis for these discussions was the advice of the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information, the Belgian Formularium Elder Care and the Haute Autorité de Santé from France, where the reimbursement was indeed cancelled in 2019. The Bureau concluded that a group review would be useful for medicines used to treat Alzheimer's disease. We have also carried out group-by-group reviews a number of times in the past. One of the topics of the review is the therapeutic value of these medicinal products. When such procedure is initiated, the group-by-group review will contain all medicines, i.e. cholinesterase inhibitors, galantamine, rivastigmine, donepezil and memantine. The Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information (CBIP) has found that dementia affects a larger part of our aging population, more than one in twenty people over sixty-five years of age, or even one in three people in the category of non-healthy. On the basis of the figures provided by Intego - a network of registrations of Flemish general practitioners, led by the Academic Center of General Medicine of the KU Leuven - there is an incidence of new cases of dementia of 1.27 per 1,000 patients. Apart from some hereditary types, dementia rarely occurs before the age of 60. Alzheimer's disease is estimated to be present at between 35 and 50% of all dementia syndromes. For vascular dementia, the same rates are observed. Lewy Body Dementia (LCD) accounts for 20% of cases. However, INAMI examined the use of anti-Alzheimer drugs. The number of patients using it has fallen from 50,000 in 2011 to 32,000 in 2018. In 2018, 32,000 patients were affected. Expenditure also decreased from 38 million in 2011 to 5 million in 2018. This has to do not only with the decreasing number of patients taking the medicines, but also with the previous group reviews of the price. It should be noted that the use of cholinesterase inhibitors has mainly decreased. The use of memantine remains almost constant. At the moment, the PGC has not obtained advice from the Alzheimer's League. Moreover, for obvious reasons, it is not the tradition of that body to enter into direct consultation with patients' organisations, because it concerns the price and reimbursement of one or the other pharmaceutical speciality. A group-by-group review of the budget is now being planned. In the proposal of the Insurance Committee, this EUR 5 million was simply deleted, as in France. I have decided to follow the opinion of the Bureau and not to overrule it and go for a group-by-group review.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u85	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that the committee does not consult patient organisations, because it is about pricing, but according to the CM study, the medicine does not work. The Alzheimer's League can be consulted if patients experience that the medicines are not working. They are, after all, the experts of experience in this field. It's not just about Alzheimer's. In my view, patients' organisations can be consulted much more, at least in order to be able to learn about the occurrence of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u86	Minister, thank you for taking stock of this. So the method you have advocated is not simply to remove the budget of about 5 million from the INAMI budget, but to operate through a group-by-group review, as has been the case in the past. You have dealt with the issue of price application and reimbursement, but further studies on the effectiveness of these products should be available. I think the Alzheimer League could also share the testimonies of its members. I note that caution is required and that you have opted for group-by-group revision at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u87	Madam Minister, the law does not provide that dental technicians do prosthetic work without an application by a dentist, and certainly not that dental technicians do procedures for patients in their own workspace. However, there are very regular advertisements from dental technicians who offer their services directly to clients in advertising leaflets or door-to-door magazines. You also don't have to search the internet for long to find the same offers. There are, of course, concerns about these practices from different perspectives. Apart from the fact that dental technicians are perfectly trained to produce prostheses, they are not trained to perform the necessary actions in patients and do not have training regarding practical hygiene and infection prevention. Even if they had received such training abroad, it would still be illegal. In addition, there are cases of patients receiving reimbursement for the prosthesis made by the dental technician by using the RIZIV number of a friend dentist. It is also clear that dental technicians are allowed to advertise, whereas dentists are not allowed to advertise, so that, in addition to the illegality of their services, there may also be unfair competition. Madam Secretary, first of all, are these practices known to you? Secondly, in what way is it applied against the unlawful conduct of treatments? Thirdly, are the provincial medical committees competent for this? Finally, is there a structural way to tackle the issue of unfair competition by screening advertisements and websites?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u88	Mrs Gijbels, thank you for your question. The profession of dental technician is indeed not a recognised health profession as defined in the co-ordinated law of 2015. Dental technicians should therefore not act on behalf of a patient who is a member of the health care system. It follows, in fact, that when they produce a dental prosthesis for an individual patient, they must be commissioned by a dentist, who may be responsible for the necessary actions in the case of a patient. In a treatment with removable dental prosthesis the dentist diagnoses, determines the indication, takes a print, performs a bite registration and designs the dental prosthesis. The technical tool is manufactured in a dental technical company by a dental technician on the basis of the data supplied by the dentist. The dentist fits the medical device and makes corresponding adjustments, also places it in the patient's mouth and also gives the necessary instructions for aftercare. In 2016 an advisory question was asked to the Dentistry Council and also to the Federal Council for the Paramedic Occupations for the exercise of actions relating to removable dental prostheses. Both advisory bodies considered that there was no need to create a new healthcare profession that could act on removable dental prostheses in patients. You will find the advice of the Dentistry Council under number 01/2016 and for the Federal Advisory Council it is an opinion of February 2017. Therefore, no further interaction was undertaken to recognise that appeal in view of the content of those opinions. Since dental technician is therefore not a recognised healthcare profession, the dental technician should not comply with the rules on publicity that apply to recognised healthcare professions. That's the downside of the medal. However, dental technicians are forbidden to make publicity for acts which they are not legally allowed to carry out. Firstly, therefore, the problem of unlawful practice must be addressed. It is unfair competition, which stems from the fact that some dental technicians publicise acts that they are not supposed to do. The provincial medical committees are indeed responsible for investigating the illegal practice of health professions. The medical committees shall systematically inform the court if they find cases of illegal practice of medicine by persons who do not have the necessary qualifications. To give you an idea: in 2019, 18 files were already sent to the parquet. As regards advertising, a limited framework applicable to all healthcare professions and within which communication can be made to the public was laid down in the Quality Act, which will enter into force on 1 July 2021. The possible cessation of competition between dentists and dental technicians is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u89	Madam Minister, I can tell from experience of myself and my colleagues that there is a widespread misunderstanding and abuse. Many patients find it very normal that they can jump directly into a dental technician to have a prosthesis adjusted or even to have an implant made. I think there's a lot left under the radar. Of course, it gets really bad if there are also nomenclature numbers written for this, lent out by, for example, a friend dentist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u90	... if it is not prescribed by a dentist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u91	No, of course not. That is, of course, fraudulent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u92	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u93	However, I think there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u94	Madam Secretary, flu vaccination is a seasonal vaccination that comes back every year. Almost every year there are problems with that. The government invests in sensitisation, so that as many patients as possible would be vaccinated. We are absolutely in favour of this. But again this year there is a shortage or delay in the production of flu vaccines and a number of pharmacists, who ordered their vaccines already in March, have still not received anything. Madam Secretary, do you have a plan to deal with the problem of flu vaccines once and for all? The production of a flu vaccine is not evident and a culture may indeed fail, but I have been a pharmacist for 25 years and I think that less than a year the flu vaccines were delivered on time and in the order number. Another question concerns registration. The flu vaccines are sold in the outpatient pharmacy and are recorded in the patient's shared pharmaceutical file. However, there are organisations or public authorities that call on a company that comes to vaccinate them and then the vaccination is not registered. As a result, it is difficult for the government to form a picture of the number of patients effectively vaccinated. Do you have plans or do you not think it is so important to know how much of the population has started vaccination?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u95	Ms Depoorter, the policy cell and the FAGG were informed in spring 2019 of the fact that a major producer was able to market less flu vaccines than planned. It was the producer who would put 70% of the flu vaccines on the market. It was of course our concern to be able to vaccinate any citizen who wanted a flu vaccine. We have asked the companies to check whether there would be enough vaccines. After examination, it appears that the deficit is compensated by the other firms and that the planned amount of vaccines corresponds to previous years. Therefore, patients should not be concerned about the availability of the flu vaccine. We communicated on this in July 2019 through the FAGG to avoid panic and to ensure that pharmacists are not confronted with situations where patients order vaccines from five pharmacists in the hope that they will still receive a vaccine. So there are plenty of flu vaccines in stock, but they may not be distributed to all pharmacies as needed. Pharmacies that have ordered vaccines may not be delivered at 100% by the specific producer and should now order flu vaccines from the other two companies. The distribution of flu vaccines is closely monitored by the FAGG. The firms concerned must forward their data on a weekly basis. In Flanders registration is partly carried out via Vaccine Network, but the problem is not all recognised occupational health services that register. If the data has been entered into Vaccinenet, you can consult them in the next day via MyHealthViewer. Doctors can do the same from the EMD. The general practitioners do pass on the vaccinations, but the occupational health services are not a small number in large administrations, which do not yet have access to them in Flanders. Maybe you could be the souffleur for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u96	Just because of that last practice, I'm asking the question. I'm worried about it. The information is not in the patient's shared pharmaceutical file. So it's hard to figure out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u97	It is included in the GMD.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u98	Not when company doctors carry out the vaccination.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u99	If the vaccination isn't in Vaccinenet, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u100	Well, that's a problem. You say there are plenty of flu vaccines available. That's not true. There have been no flu vaccines for a month, not from the manufacturer who indicated that there was a problem, but also from the other manufacturers. He can't follow. So there are indeed flu vaccines too short. There's another problem. You say that certain pharmacies are only partially delivered. I've had a lot of complaints from pharmacists. It is also a question of the supplier's goodwill. If pharmacy a is delivered for 100 % and pharmacy b only for 80 %, then it does not benefit the patient. The patient should then effectively look for a pharmacy that can provide him or her with vaccines. I dare say there is a shortage this year. We invest in sensitisation. We all agree that vaccination is good for general public health. It is therefore up to us, as a government, to ensure that enough vaccines are available to our community. The problem appears year after year, and we must try to deal with it. I invite you to ask around. There's currently a shortage of flu vaccines. They're not in stock. It's the middle of November. A second vaccination is sometimes carried out in January, but no vaccines will be available. Certain directives say that we must also apply in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u101	Deficiencies should be reported to the FAGG. We have not yet been told that there would be too few flu vaccines. We've taken all our precautions. For example, we have taken a margin, because we are assuming that awareness campaigns may allow more people to order a flu vaccine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u102	Still, we're not getting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u103	I will report that it is being established on the ground. Does your profession report that to the FAGG?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u104	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u105	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, I come back to this issue of the previous Parliament, which relates to nurses responsible for general care. Our country has transposed the European directive of 20 November 2013 on the strict recognition of professional qualifications by a royal decree of 27 June 2016 which provides that no one may practise nursing only after a training period of at least three years. The Directive provides for four years of higher education as necessary to meet the requirements of responsible general care nurse training in accordance with European regulations. Although bachelor's training (non-university higher education) has been increased from three to four years in the three Communities, the same is not true for the so-called HBO5 patent training which falls within the supplementary secondary vocational education level which is also provided in the three Communities. The Federal Council for the Art of Nurses notes that not all HBO5/patented courses have incorporated into their curricula the clinical courses required by the Directive. In doing so, HBO5/patented vocational training graduates on 30 June 2019 cannot be recognised as compliant euro, even if our government grants them recognition and practice visa. This creates a distortion of competition rules, but also a source of concern for these graduates as to their status. In view of Belgium's important public health needs, it is regrettable that the quality of the profession is reduced and that nurses, necessary for the sector, are thus penalized or even threatened. Our country has already been notified by the European Commission because our nursing training is not in line with this famous European directive. Therefore, Madam Minister, can you let me know whether your services have already examined the situation of these patented graduates, whether contacts have been made with your competent colleagues in the three Communities in the field of training with a view to harmonising it with the requirements of the European Directive? What about the procedure for the European Commission to issue a notice of formal notice to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u106	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your question. In May 2018, the Ministers of Education of the three Communities confirmed to me, as foreseen by the division of competences in Belgium, that all their nursing trainings met the conditions set out in Article 45 of SARAS for practice as a nurse. On the basis of this information, I have issued nursing visas to all new nursing graduates, including those in the patent fields and HBO5. Last month, the European Commission actually sent me a warning to respond to a suspicion of infringement of the directive on HBO5 training in Flanders and the patent of the German-speaking Community. These trainings would not have enough hours (less than 4,600 hours required). Since I do not have the competence to assess the content and organisation of the training courses, I have transferred this notice to the relevant Education Ministers. They have two months to respond to the criticisms of the European Commission. At this point, I can't tell you any more. I can only form an opinion when I have the answers of the Communities and the reaction of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u107	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand that the problem arises from the different levels of power and that it is not within your competence to ensure the harmonization of curricula between the three Communities. For my part, I have had a return from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation which tells me that the training of patentees has increased from three to three and a half years, but this remains insufficient and does not solve the problem of continuing uncertainty for students. I hear that a visa has been issued to all students but we remain in a short-term logic. The problem is therefore not solved for future students who do not know if they will finally be able to obtain their visa. Even if this is not a matter for you, in my view, you still have a coordinating role to play by bringing together the various competent ministers around the table and by ensuring that the various training courses provided in the three Communities are harmonised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u108	All reports of the Interdepartmental Commission (IMC) should be considered. I can tell you that for five years a lot of meetings have been held. Only in the absence of a new Minister of Public Health, there was no meeting in the ICD. I can therefore do nothing but write to the competent Community ministers and wait for their reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u109	Because of day-to-day business, do you mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u110	A new inter-ministerial commission must, after the elections, be composed of the new ministers, that is for sure. However, we do not yet have a full-fledged federal Minister of Public Health. That is why this body does not meet. It is all the more a pity that we have met four or five times a year in this area. We have already lost two or three meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u111	Does this answer satisfy you, Mrs. Rohonyi?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u112	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u113	Madam Minister, the next Minister for Health may look for EUR 1.4 billion. That is the amount that will be required in 2024 to pay the invoice for our medicines. The most recent report by the Monitoring Committee shows this. No other item of expenditure will explode as spectacularly as the post of medicines in the coming years. In 2024 the bill will have grown twice faster than the bill of hospitals, three times faster than the bill of doctors' wages and no less than six times faster than the bill of nurses' wages. This shows that there is more going on for medicines than just the ageing of our society. We will pay for blue, not because we need more medicine than before, but because these medicines are becoming increasingly expensive. The pharmaceutical industry is getting ready to release a lot of new and, above all, expensive therapies into the world in the coming years. Whether all these treatments will have been worth the price tag afterwards, we will not know until long after we have already paid them. Despite the future pact and the negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry, the budget has been derailed by hundreds of millions of euros, and according to the Court of Auditors, the future pact has not met all expectations. That is why I have the following questions. Why didn't the Future Pact fully meet expectations? Can this be avoided in the future, for example through stronger negotiations or punishments? What possible sources can be identified to meet the deficit? Can the pharmaceutical industry take any more out of the box? Why can't you or why can't you? Can the secret deals with the pharmaceutical industry not be more transparent, so that one way or another access is possible? Madam Secretary, what would you recommend to your successor in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is a topical debate because we have already had hearings in this committee as well. According to the most recent report of the Monitoring Committee, the next government should find 1.4 billion euros more in order to be able to repay our medicines in 2024. Indeed, the cost of medicines is expected to increase by almost 30% in the coming years to €6.6 billion by 2024. Minister, in your opinion, what are the main reasons for increasing the cost of drugs? How can the reimbursement of medicines be guaranteed in the coming years, given the explosion of their cost? Do you have any political leads? Are you considering new initiatives to empower the pharmaceutical industry within the budget allocated to it? Is it not time to develop a new drug policy to ensure their long-term accessibility? In this context, do you advocate specific measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u115	Mrs Sneppe, I have been following with great attention for several years the evolution of drug spending. Indeed, there is a sharp increase in this expenditure. That was also my concern when I received this authority in 2014, because it is really necessary to give the patient access to the most appropriate treatment. I do not want to minimize the problem, but we must approach the figures with some caution. The evaluation of the Monitoring Committee on the evolution of healthcare expenditure up to 2024, based on the input of the RIZIV, should be approached with caution. The RIZIV carried out a multiannual estimate for the first time this year. In doing so, evolution was linearly extrapolated and no account was taken of future events, such as patient decay and price reductions. However, this does not mean that we should not seek solutions to reduce the increase in the cost of medicines. At the beginning of the legislature, efforts were made to save enough money on the expenditure on medicines, which means paying less for the patient, in order to re-inject it into innovative medicines. The Pact with the sector also agreed to put a cap on the increase in the pharmaceutical budget, in particular an average annual growth rate of 0.5 % between 2015 and 2018. That was the case, so all overruns had to be made in new savings. The rate of growth of 0.5 % corresponds to only one third of the growth rate of the other departments. This approach was based on an analysis of which innovative medicines would come to the market and what other events, such as patent decay, would take place. After all, our savings were mainly made on off-patent medicines, but the Future Pact came to an end at the end of 2018. The subsequent elections did not make a new pact, but that would be useful. We have noticed that some innovations have come on the market more quickly, which has led to a sharper increase in expenditure. To this end, an additional investment was made in the 2019 budget, because it involved very valuable oncological innovations, such as immunological medicines and the CAR-T cures. Every year measures are also taken to reduce expenditure to the planned budget. The next year's budget proposal, which was approved by the government last Friday, contains a series of measures worth EUR 121 million in 2020. By 2020, these measures will only start on 1 April, but after that, they will amount to EUR 161 million in structural terms. Furthermore, the patient bill for medicines also falls by 65 million euros. That's gonna be all right. These are savings from the pharmaceutical sector that are not for the benefit of the government but of the patient. It is therefore structuralally more than EUR 220 million. Over the course of this Parliament, we have always created a margin in the budget due to lower prices as a result of patent extinction and additional measures being taken in the non-patent drug segment. This margin had been reinvested in innovative medicines. As a result of the increased costs of innovation and the general increase in the volume of medicines used, this margin is no longer sufficient. It is clear that the current repayment model faces these limitations. Reforms are therefore needed and we will have an opportunity to develop them as soon as a new government takes office. During this parliamentary term, I have already launched a number of important projects such as the joint negotiation of the Beneluxa commitment, the mutual scanning horizon with nine countries, and the publicly funded clinical studies. I also continue to put the subject of medicines and sustainability on the European agenda. At these European meetings, we are always seen as the country with best practices and therefore receive little inspiration from other countries. Mrs. Sneppe, you asked about the secret deals. I suppose you referred to the Article 81 contracts. If we didn't have those contracts, we'd have to pay a facial price for everything. This would result in an increase of EUR 500 million per year for the medicines currently covered by the contracts in accordance with Article 81. Well, that's what's gonna come out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u116	Madam Secretary, thank you for your enlightening answer. I understand you're forcing discounts in secret negotiations. I go along with your reasoning that these are necessary and that there must be a balance between what is secret and what is not secret. However, there must also be a bit more transparency. I am not saying that everything relating to the secret negotiations must be revealed, but we have evolved so far that even the pharmaceutical sector wants to release it. I am not saying that everything should be released, but perhaps we should consider how transparency can be achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u117	The scientific part is completely transparent. The Knowledge Centre has even done a study on the content and scientific part. However, the annex, which says what price reduction we get for the medicine, for how many patients, what the cap is, is secret, because of the non-compete clause. That is in an annex, in a clause, and it is not open to inspection, because firms refuse to conclude contracts of this kind with a country, if they cannot be sure that the other Member States or other firms do not know how much money is being paid for it. The fact that we spend EUR 500 million less is precisely because of the conditions we enforce. Sometimes we are also stronger, for example in relation to the Netherlands for Spinraza. The article was first used by Mrs. Onkelinx. It developed this approach, because practice is also common in other countries. Everyone is looking for a solution, but for now no one has an alternative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u118	What's the consequence for the patients? If these contracts are no longer available and if the medicinal product is still on the market, then it is more expensive to pay EUR 500 million per year, or else there is a saving, but our patients will not have access to those medicines either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u119	Madam Secretary, I'm not quite following you. I understand your reasoning, but I think there can be a hint of the veil.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u120	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am glad to hear that this matter remains a priority for you, as it is for this committee, since we have already held hearings on it. I would also like to thank you for reminding you of the measures that have already been taken, in particular the price cap, as well as the negotiations within the Benelux Pact. To stem the galloping increase in the cost of drugs is a key political issue for the coming years and, most certainly, for the next government. I will, of course, remain very attentive to this issue, which concerns many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u121	Debates of the European Parliament 5501189C by Mrs Jiroflée and 55001216C by Mr Boukili are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 55001230C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Farih's 55001252C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u122	Minister, during the week of 24 October, the emergencies at Saint-Luc's Hospital (UCLouvain) found several cases of mumps among the students of the Alma campus, located in Woluwé. A warning to an outbreak of mumps has also been triggered at UCLouvain. There are between 20 and 30 cases diagnosed on the Alma site alone. The symptoms of mumps are not very specific: painful swelling of salivary glands under the ears is accompanied by influenza syndrome. The academic authorities warned the students who had experienced the same symptoms so that they would come to a doctor to avoid any spread, especially during the 24 hours of cycling which began on Wednesday, 23 October. However, updating the vaccine is problematic. Indeed, the RRO vaccine (red blood, rubella, mumps) has not been available in pharmacies throughout the country since September, until the end of November. In mid-August, GSK, a vaccine producer, informed AFMPS of a problem in the production chain, without giving further details. Minister, were you aware of this situation? Do you really think it's problematic? Can you provide more details on the reasons for the unavailability of the vaccine? Have you had contact with GSK in order to be able to benefit from the vaccines as quickly as possible? When I put my question, the unavailability would extend at least until the end of November. What about the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u123	Mr Prévot, on 14 August 2019, GSK notified AFMPS that the Priorix vaccine would not be available from 1 September until the end of October. Since then, the previously reported unavailability has been extended until the end of November 2019. The AFMPS analyses each notification of unavailability using a decision tree. It quickly became clear that stock shortage could become critical, the difficulty being the only alternative: the M-M-RVAXPRO distributed only to the Communities as part of the vaccination programmes they manage. The number of vaccines is therefore limited. The Communities do not want to respond to our request to make these vaccines available outside the circuit as an alternative to Priorix. So far, there has been no M-M-RVAXPRO application in pharmacies because it has never been refunded. The possibility of a derogation for imports of Priorix, even from non-European consignments, was examined by GSK and was not accepted. In order to obtain an exemption, the firm must apply to the AFMPS. Therefore, the latter organized a task force with doctors, hospital pharmacists, patient associations, INAMI, the SPF Economy, my strategic cell and experts from the said Agency. The recommendations advise doctors to use vaccines made available by the Communities (the M-M-RVAXPRO for target groups) as foreseen by the Communities. For patients who do not qualify for vaccination via the Communities, a hierarchy of indications is proposed with the possibility for the pharmacist to import the Priorix vaccine, in accordance with Article 105 of the Royal Decree of 14 December 2006. In the meantime, a derogation has been approved for the M-M-RVAXRO of the MSD firm in order to ensure that it remains available via the Communities. These packages would be available from mid-November to mid-January. In order to remedy the shortage of Priorix, MSD agreed to make M-M-RVAXPRO available in pharmacies as soon as possible. At the same time, the firm will submit a file to INAMI to request a refund. GSK informed AFMPS that production lines are running at full capacity and that production cannot be increased. Priorities are determined according to the priority needs of each country of the world and not just Europe. The level of security stock before saturation can be quite different from one country to another. It is also on the basis of these existing or non-existing safety stocks that production priorities are determined. It is therefore possible that other countries may not be aware of unavailability. Nevertheless, GSK has a reserve stock that can be used in emergency situations, such as the UCLouvain outbreak. As far as this epidemic is concerned, AFMPS has been contacted by the services of the Joint Community Commission. A solution was found through the vaccination programme. Since early November, so earlier than expected, the Priorix vaccine has been available again. That's the story of Priorix.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u124	That's a lot of stories for today, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u125	Minister, thank you for taking stock of the situation. Beyond the outbreak observed at the UCL site, the issue of the unavailability of the MMR vaccine was obviously raised with respect to this issue. This epidemic seemed problematic to me and you confirmed it since it was judged critical. Thank you for reminding you of your various and varied interventions in this matter. At the political level, I think things have been done and done well. I am also glad to see that Priorix was available a little earlier, although we can of course still regret being taken hostage by some pharmaceutical companies. We know that we are evolving in a global context where Belgium is just one of many customers. But this epidemic on the university campus has once again shown us the problem of vaccines and the unavailability of some of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u126	Minister, for several years, there has been a difficulty in setting up general practitioners' offices in a uniform manner in our national territory. This issue affects both rural and urban areas. It should be remembered that a commune with a ratio of less than 90 general practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants is considered to be in shortage of doctors. The state of play carried out in Wallonia in 2017 presents a very worrying situation with almost one in two communes in shortage of general practitioners. Testimonials from the Durgencies regularly confirm this problem because they have to accommodate patients who have not been able to have an appointment with a doctor. Of course, subquotas have been recorded, from 32% of INAMI numbers to generalists to 43% for just over a year, but the outlook is not positive. We know that the profession of general practitioner has evolved (guardians, medical homes, hours, different working rhythms). Studies have shown that new generations of physicians choose to work fewer hours per week than their predecessors. Moreover, in the Brussels Region, there is not yet a shortage but unfortunately it seems planned as early as 2027 if the trend does not change. Initiatives are being taken to curb this phenomenon. The public authorities have taken support measures to encourage the installation of doctors, particularly in rural areas. Minister, even though Impulseo is now within the competence of the federated entities, is your department following the evolution of a cadastre of general practitioners in our country through regional reports on the Impulse mechanism? How many Integrated Practice Awards in General Medicine have been awarded over the past three years? How many general practitioners are currently involved in organized daycare? What proportion of all general practitioners in our country does this represent? Are there major disparities between our three regions? More broadly, what measures do you feel it is necessary to take at federal level and/or in consultation with the federated entities to respond to this current situation and to the negative prospects in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u127	You're asking a lot of questions, Mrs. Taquin! The "Health Professions" service and more specifically the Medical Supply Planning Unit closely monitor the issue of access to health care, both at the federal level and in the federated entities. However, since the requested data are not within federal jurisdiction and no collection of such data is organized, the federal government does not coordinate responses common to the entire territory. Therefore, we invite you to contact the federated entities to obtain this information, since they are the authentic sources of this information. In addition, it is within the Planning Commission that the issues of medical supply, population needs and access to health care are discussed. In addition, it comprises representatives of the three Communities of the country. On the offer of doctors, I also invite you to consult the publications of the Planning Commission, entitled Médecins sur le marché du travail 2004-2016. They were released last September. Each branch, including general medicine, is the subject of a very detailed specific report. The figures are broken down by Community and by Region in order to be able, if necessary, to be used by them to define their subquotas. However, this work is only a first step. Research in terms of the projection of the working force of each medical specialty is under way. Based on their expected results for 2020, the Planning Commission will advise the Minister of Public Health. At that time, the Commission will make proposals for initiatives to be taken in terms of medical supply. With regard to your questions regarding the registration of general practitioners' offices and duty stations, I refer to the law of 22 April 2019 on the quality of health care practice. It regulates the permanences - in particular, in childcare - in the context of general medicine. The law stipulates that the general practitioner is obliged to participate in the medical service in the area where he or she practises his or her profession. In order to comply with this obligation, the general practitioner participates in a medical clinic organised by a group of functional and approved general practitioners who conclude agreements concerning medical permanence in the area concerned. The public health services and health insurance are in the process of drawing up the necessary implementing orders for this purpose, with a view to recognizing, by 2021 at the latest, next year, the functional collectives set up. This will provide a clear view of the permanence guarantee and provide for appropriate child care funding. There are no exact figures of the number of general practitioners participating in organized child care. The officers of the guard service, however, record the data of the guards in connection with the payment by INAMI of the fees of availability, using the Medega application provided for this purpose. For the year 2018, 12,600 general practitioners were designated in this application or exempted as part of the organized daycare service, including 8,800 beneficiaries of availability fees. The same law also provides for the obligation to register care practices by mentioning the need to collaborate with other practitioners. This includes section 42 of the Act. This obligation shall take effect on 1 July 2021. The authorities concerned are in the process of carrying out a cadastre of care practices. This will make it possible to clearly list the offices and how they operate in the field. By this I mean all the offices: the isolated offices, the offices of doctors' groups, the structured collaborations with other practitioners. In conclusion, I can provide you with the figures for the Integrated Practice Award in General Medicine. Given that the premium was first granted for 2016 and that the application procedure for 2018 will be launched shortly, the figures relate to the 2016 and 2017 premiums. A royal decree is necessary and has been submitted to the King's signature. There are 9,182 general practitioners who received the premium for 2016 and 10,049 who received it in 2017. These figures are subject to slight changes as a result of the payment of adjustments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u128	Madam Minister, thank you. It is quite reassuring to see that this will continue to evolve by 2020 and in 2021. If you don't mind, I'll be happy to come back to you at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u129	Mr President, Madam Minister, royal orders made at the beginning of the year in the field of eye care have changed the main technical and auxiliary medical and paramedical services for patients. Precisely, the royal decrees of 27 February, relating to the profession of orthoptist-optometrist and paramedical professions, established this new profession. Given that these legislative changes may affect preventive medicine, diagnosis or treatment, I would like to know whether an evaluation of these new rules has already been carried out by your department. Minister, what measures have been taken at the educational level to approve people wishing to become orthoptist-optometrist? Are the training provided comprehensive and adapted to the allocation of these new technical skills? At the level of preventive medicine, who are the professionals in charge of this aspect of public health at the level of eye care? Has there been any change in this preventive practice? Can you indicate the trend in the number of medical examinations performed by ophthalmologists since May 2019 in comparison with 2017 and 2018 over the same period? Furthermore, how many ocular pathologies have been diagnosed over these same periods by orthoptists-optometrists and ophthalmologists? We know that the advisory councils gave negative opinions prior to the publication of the said royal decrees. Can you inform us more about this by considering the appeal to the Council of State before this summer by the Belgian Association of Ophthalmologists and the Orthoptists who oppose these new legislative changes. Could your department have heard their arguments? Finally, could you indicate on what scientific basis is the fact that technical services requiring prescription by a doctor specializing in ophthalmology are limited to patients under 16 years of age?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u130	Mr. President, Ms. Taquin, as Federal Minister of Public Health, I am responsible for the accreditation of health care professions and the determination of the minimum qualification requirements that must be met in order to practise a health care profession. However, since the teaching is within the competence of the Communities, I cannot answer your question on this subject. Nevertheless, I must say that the amendments were explicitly announced at an intercabinets meeting in the framework of the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, in the presence of representatives of each Community in the field of education policy. It was very reactive. In addition, transitional measures are also provided to ensure that persons who have undergone or have begun an orthoptist training – the publication of the Royal Decree of 27 February – are not required to undergo additional training in order to receive the approval of orthoptist-optometrist. Similarly, persons who, before 22 April 2023, hold a degree or baccalaureate in the field of eye care whose theoretical and practical level of training and internships meet the minimum qualification requirements shall be considered for an accreditation and visa as an orthoptist-optometrist. It is important that, like any health care professional, such persons should be allowed to perform only acts of care for which they can demonstrate that they have the required experience and skills. In addition to general prevention screenings carried out by general practitioners, student management centres and medical examinations in the workplace, ophthalmologists are primarily competent in terms of eye care. In addition, an ophthalmologist may be assisted by an orthoptist-optometrist in the performance of certain services or the performance of certain acts. Finally, nurses may also participate in eye care for all screenings and measures subject to a physician's prescription. This is what they do already often at school or at work. In such a short term, it is impossible to have data on the performance of ophthalmologists and/or optometrists. With regard to diagnosis, no records are kept up to date. You are also asking me about the opinions given prior to the publication of this royal decree. I have asked the Federal Council for Paramedical Professions, the Technical Commission for Paramedical Professions and the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners to give a joint opinion on the need for new health care professions in the fields of optometry and optics. These opinions are available on the FPS Public Health website. According to the Higher Council of Physicians, eye care should be made more accessible by giving a front-line role to the paramedical profession. I have been informed of the various requests for annulment of the Royal Decree of 27 February 2019. Several parties have chosen to initiate legal proceedings. The case is therefore pending at the Council of State, which has procedures now followed. For patients under 16 years of age, the conditions for exercising are stricter as these patients are more at risk. Indeed, in the years following birth, the eye and visual system continue to develop. Disorders that occur during this development may lead to strabism or permanent loss of vision by amblyopia. More general conditions such as cataract evolve differently and are the subject of a different prognosis in children and adults, as the condition may influence normal visual development. On the other hand, children are often unable to put words on their symptoms. This is why specific skills are required to properly examine this group of young patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-26-55-commissie-ic057x.u131	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will return to you when the evaluation of the measure is available.
