ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, we have learned with regret the death of Minister of State Philippe Moureaux, honorary member of our assembly. Born on 12 April 1939 in Etterbeek, Philippe Moureaux enrolled after high school at the Free University of Brussels where he graduated as a doctor in philosophy and literature. Professor emeritus of historical criticism at the ULB and specialist of the Austrian Netherlands, Philippe Moureaux began his political career as an adviser to the office of Deputy Prime Minister André Cools. He joined the House of Representatives in November 1981 and will not leave our Assembly until April 12, 1995. He will also serve in the Senate from June 1999 to May 2014. It was in May 1980 that Philippe Moureaux, who still had no elected office, began his ministerial career as Minister of the Interior and Institutional Reforms in the Martens III government. In analysing the institutional evolution of Belgium and its major geopolitical stakes, he was a real forerunner. Observers retain the finesse of its analysis and its front-line participation in the federalization process of the country. In October 1980 he transferred his portfolio of the Interior to that of Justice in the Martens IV government. Many remember him as the father of the 1981 Anti-Racism and Xenophobia Act known as the Moorish Law, adopted as Minister of Justice in Mark Eyskens' government. In December 1981, Philippe Moureaux became Prime Minister of the newly established French Community. He held that position until December 1985. In May 1988 he returned to the federal government as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Brussels Region and Institutional Reforms in the Martens VIII and IX governments. In March 1992 he became Minister of Social Affairs in the Dehaene I government. When he had completed the reform of health insurance, he resigned as Minister. In 1995 he was awarded the honorary title of Minister of State. At these successive posts, Philippe Moureaux sometimes had to take on difficult choices but he always made a point of never moving the responsibility for the decisions he had taken on others. He never hesitated to adopt courageous positions that were not necessarily in line with the immediate feelings of public opinion. It would be futile to recall the important statements made in Parliament or elsewhere by this strenuous worker. But one thing is certain: each of them showed a wide experience and a perfect knowledge of the subject. Philippe Moureaux was also a convinced municipalist. For almost 20 years, he was, in any case, a tireless defender of the interests of his voters in the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean where he had been elected communal councillor in 1983, of which he became mayor in 1992 and with which he maintained a very strong link throughout his life. Although his political commitment has not only brought friends to Philippe Moureaux, many acknowledge his struggle and his political generosity. Solidarity and social progress were the guiding principles of his political life. For his entire political career, he remained faithful to his youth ideals, and he did so in a very passionate way. Whether one shared one's thoughts or not, one cannot ignore the fact that Philippe Moureaux was a man of deep conviction, who has left his mark on Belgian politics in the past decades. Philippe Moureaux, at first of all reserved, had an acute sense of formula and was capable of devastating irony. But he also knew how to be funny and warm with his loved ones, friends and other companions. His oratory elegance, his erudition, his rigor and his powerful culture will also be remembered. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I extended my deepest condolences to his family. I greet his wife and his daughter, by the way mayor of Molenbeek, in our stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Philippe Moureaux is undoubtedly one of the political figures who marked Belgian politics. Philippe Moureaux, a Ph.D. in philosophy and literature and a university professor, began his political career as an advisor in the cabinet of Minister André Cools. He later worked with Edmond Leburton and Guy Spitaels. He was propelled to the front of the political scene in 1980, becoming Minister of the Interior. He is the father of important legislation aimed at combating racism and xenophobia. This law always bears his name. Philippe Moureaux has also been very personally involved in no less than five reforms of the state. It often included the issue of institutional reforms in its ministerial powers. Several times as Federal Minister, Minister-President of the French Community, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Brussels Region, he has been active at all levels of responsibility in our country. Driven by strong and entrenched convictions, he has regularly - throughout his political career - engaged in lively exchanges with his political opponents. I have sometimes, like others, made the costs of its meaning of the formula. [[A little balm in the heart: it was also possible that members of his own political family would pay for it.]] The name Philippe Moureaux was also associated with the municipality of Molenbeek, where he was mayor for twenty years. In 2012, Philippe Moureaux left local politics. He will continue his term of office as a senator until the 2014 elections when he finally withdraws from politics. During his short retreat, Philippe Moureaux fought courageously against the disease, with the same combativity and determination he demonstrated throughout his political career. On behalf of the government, I also wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family, family members, companion and daughter here. We wish them courage in this ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u4	Colleagues, I propose that a few moments' silence be observed in memory of the late Minister of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u5	On 13 December, Jean-Pierre Van Rossem, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Jette, at the age of 73. Jean-Pierre Van Rossem was a member of the ROSSEM Chamber for the arrondissement of Antwerp from November 1991 to May 1995.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u6	On 15 December, Marc Olivier, a former member of the Chamber of Representatives, died in Kortrijk, at the age of 78. Marc Olivier was a CVP-Kamer member of the Arrondissement of Kortrijk from March 1974 to May 1995. From May 1995 to June 1999 he was Flemish representative and community senator. In addition, he was also a member of the Kortrijk City Council for seventeen years. In the name of the Chamber of Representatives, I have offered my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u7	Gilbert Gribomont, a former member of the House of Representatives, died on 20 December in Neufchâteau, at the age of 92. Gilbert Gribomont sat in the House on the benches of the PSC for the district of Neufchâteau-Virton from May 1965 to March 1968. He was also a member of the Senate from April 1968 to January 1974.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u8	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2019, I propose that the oral questions be entered on this afternoon's agenda. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 8 January 2019, I propose that oral questions be placed on this afternoon's agenda. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to express my solidarity with the 13,000 workers in Proximus, with those men and women who, for years, have been making Proximus a true technological flagship. Since Tuesday night, they have had their belly tied and wonder who will be the 1,900 employees who will have to leave the company. They also wonder what has happened since CEO Dominique Leroy said in October 2018: "I am delighted to announce strong business and financial results in a competitive market. Our good trade indicators have generated a strong direct margin." Just three months later, Proximus's 13,000 employees will want the CEO to explain that the company will have to separate from 1,900 employees. A strong direct margin on the one hand, 1,900 layoffs on the other. Socialists cannot accept this logic. Moreover, one cannot believe that such a logic prevails in an autonomous public enterprise. But under your government, Michel I, you have given another signal to public companies. This was the passion for the stock market, the obsession with privatization – you even talked about it for SNCB – the devotion to total competition. This has also been the disengagement of the State in the very management and control of our autonomous public enterprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u11	Mr Chastel, I am speaking to the Prime Minister and his resigned government. Prime Minister, should I remind you that you have defended, on behalf of the sacrosanct competition of the market, the arrival of a fourth mobile operator? Do I have to remind you that there were screams on all sides to tell you that a fourth operator was going to cause an earthquake and generate many job losses? Do I have to remind you who amended the law to facilitate the use of subcontracting and false self-employed persons, Mr. Peeters? Do I have to remind you who has reduced the prerogatives of the state in the boards of directors by, in particular, abolishing the commissioners of the government, and who has therefore reduced the power of the state in autonomous public enterprises? Mr President, I come to my questions, but it seems to me that we must take the time for a debate. These are 13,000 employees and 1,900 people who will lose their jobs. Today, with your resigned government, Mr. Michel, you're rumbling, you're inflating your torso, you're punching on the table to say that you don't accept, you're refusing to dismiss 1,900 workers, you can't do that. But, Prime Minister – excuse me for telling you – you are not credible. What are you putting on the table to prohibit the dismissal of these 1,900 people? What solutions do you propose to the company to prevent these dismissals? Didn't you see anything coming, Mr. Michel? Didn't you hear Proximus CEO say that a fourth operator would force him to remove jobs? Didn't you hear the FEB say exactly the same thing? Prime Minister, will you choose to protect the job not only at Proximus, but also at Telenet and Orange by putting your final veto on the arrival of a fourth operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u12	Mrs Lalieux, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u13	Mr President, this is about thousands of people and thousands of families who today are waiting for concrete answers, not just communication. So I ask the Prime Minister for clear answers because people don't know if tomorrow they can still work and families are shaking, following the announcement that has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, as my colleague has just mentioned, the concern of the staff of Proximus, one of the flagships of our public companies is more than legitimate. It must be said that to start the year, this staff could have waited for other signs from your government. Indeed, it must be remembered that the State is the majority within this enterprise. How can we believe for a moment that this is a kind of thunderstorm that you discover and that you have been put before the fait accompli? How can we believe that the directors, beginning with the chairman of the board of directors, Mr. Stefaan De Clerck, a former minister, who knew the parties of the majority to be appointed where he is – one might wonder if he had the necessary skills – did not know who the majority shareholders in this company are? If that were the case, it might be necessary to draw the consequences and propose its revocation. In any case, it would be the least if he really put you in front of the fait accompli. But I can't imagine it. The truth, as you know, is that the obsession of your Minister De Croo, who until recently had little responsibility for public enterprise policy, to want to introduce a fourth operator into the market represents a direct threat to employment in this sector. This was demonstrated in particular by the study of HSBC Bank and the Agoria Federation itself, which drew attention to the risks of job losses in this sector. The French experience has demonstrated this. The introduction of a new operator has led to a reduction in staff, particularly at Bouygues Telecom and not only. This threat was also specified by Agoria. And there was the desire, in particular, of the Brussels government, which was referred to in the Conciliation Committee, to say "Attention, threat to employment, threat to investment, threat to the deployment of 5G in Brussels, in particular if a fourth operator intervenes". Moreover, in Austria, where the number of operators in the market has been reduced, there has been an increase in investment and the resulting benefits for consumers. Prime Minister, you still have the opportunity to stop this social massacre. When were you informed? By whom? By what way exactly? Are you determined, before allowing the board of directors of Proximus to go further in this project, to impose a full audit of what the introduction of a fourth operator into the telecommunications market in Belgium may represent as a threat, even before any decision is taken on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u15	"Jobs, jobs, jobs!" What are the Proximus employees going to think of that hollow slogan, Mr Charles Michel, which you have spoken for years. Nineteen hundred jobs are going to die at Proximus. "Jobs, jobs, jobs!" What will all these Proximus workers think of your slogan that is meaningless, as well as the workers of ING, Caterpillar? Jobs, jobs, jobs! We see the result today! This is also done in a company where profits are made. In the last ten years, Proximus has made a 7.25 billion euro profit. We've never made so many profits in this box in ten years. Last year, 487 million euros of dividends were distributed to shareholders, state and private! So it is clear today that there are redundancies in the stock market, the only purpose of which is to continue to make money! We are not at all in the question of the preservation of social gains; they are purely stock market redundancies! Prime Minister, you are trying to make us believe that you were not aware of this anti-social plan. That doesn't just apply to the Prime Minister. The traditional parties want us to believe that they knew nothing about this. Stefaan De Clerck is chairman of Proximus. He didn't know about that? Karel De Gucht, the man on whom we can ask which board he is not on, is paid EUR 80 000 a year. He's in there, but he didn't say anything? At ArcelorMittal he was also present on the board of directors to kill jobs there. He didn't know? Isabelle Santens was there for CD&V, right? I also hear the French-speaking parties, Prime Minister. Did Laurent Levaux, whom the MR appointed on the board of directors, not tell you either? On the PS side, haven't you been told either? Martine Durez worked for you, Mr. Di Rupo, in your firm. These people knew about it. Are you going to make us believe today that you didn't know anything about what was going to happen? Colleagues, that the digitalisation of the economy costs jobs is not inevitable. Digitalization and the improvement of productive forces in our history have been used to reduce working time. Not killing jobs. If it kills employment, it's only for profit. Prime Minister, you are the government's representative, who is now the main shareholder in this endeavour. You have the power to say, "Stop, there will be no layoffs." My question will be very simple. Are you going to refuse all the dismissals envisaged by this company, or are you going to continue with this liberal logic that will cost thousands of jobs in the public service and in other companies again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u16	Mr. President, Prime Minister, today the lives of 1,900 families are in danger of being upset. My thoughts, at the beginning of this year, go towards them. These new layoffs at Proximus are the beginnings of the fourth industrial revolution, that of digitalization, an economic transition that affects all sectors. How, therefore, can we manage the social aspect of this transition? This is the fundamental question that the dismissals at Carrefour, at ING and today at Proximus have raised under your government, to which you have not yet been able to answer. Prime Minister, your surprise at the announcement of 1,900 layoffs surprises me. As a majority shareholder, you would not have been informed of such a situation, while Dominique Leroy presented his new strategy in a L'Echo article in December 2018! A strategic turning point of this magnitude is not improvising. He's getting ready. You want Proximus to succeed in its great digitalisation project, continue to invest, put its prices under pressure by the arrival of a fourth operator, continue to pay 500 million euros of dividends per year and do all this without any dismissal. Prime Minister, you can't have the butter, the butter money and the cream tree smile. You have to choose. So, what's your choice? Will your minority coalition continue to advocate the arrival of a fourth operator? Will Proximus' commitment to maintain a €1.5 dividend per share until 2019 be reviewed? In any case, if your choices lead to dismissals, it is important that Proximus, as a largely public company, be exemplary in the social aspect. If the Renault law does not apply to Proximus, the European directive on which it is based applies. Our group demands strict respect for this and therefore to examine a plan B to preserve as many jobs as possible. Can you commit to it with our support? Furthermore, are you ready to move forward with us on the transposition of the bill tabled by our group and Catherine Fonck in order to transpose this directive to the public sector and to companies such as Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u17	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in our view, a self-sustaining public enterprise must reconcile the assurance of quality service to all our citizens, exemplary social consultation, a vision of long-term investment and, of course, a necessary financial profitability. With the announcement of Proximus, this social plan which covers 1,900 people, 1,900 workers, 15% of the workforce, we are far from it! We're a long way from the point of view. This plan is unacceptable to us, especially since it is a public company that benefits, and because it is systematically imposed on the shoulders of workers alone, on the costs of restructuring and on reductions in staff costs. It is systematically on workers that these costs are weighed for business transformations. This, for us, is intolerable. In our view, a shareholder State is a State that must set a framework and must also have long-term objectives. Far from day-to-day management, it must be able to influence strategic decisions related to employment and the defence of the general interest. We're also far from it here. Prime Minister, as you said yourself, you were not aware of this restructuring. You weren't aware of this social plan. How is that possible? Didn't your directors on Proximus' board of directors tell you anything? Don't they let you know? What did they do? Did they react? Have they remained with their arms crossed? Did they have an opinion? Have they made a counter-proposal in relation to this social plan? This element, sincerely, is fundamental in this debate. What did the directors representing the federal government on the Proximus Board of Directors serve for? It is also announced that 1,900 workers will leave, but what about it? Are these redundancies dry? In other words, will they take the door overnight? Are other proposals already on the table? You also stated that you did not accept this plan. It's a minimum, Prime Minister. But what initiatives are you going to take? What proposals will you make? Finally, there is also the recruitment of 1,250 people. Is it inconceivable to train the 1,950 employees on the door and give them a second chance in order to fill the 1,250 positions that will be created? Is internal training therefore impossible? It seems to me that the signal given is that experienced workers are thrown out and then hire young people who will be in new jobs. This message sent to the world of work is a real mistake. Finally, the Chamber has had very little discussion of the possible entry of a fourth telecom operator. It's your decision. What was his influence on the choice announced by Proximus? What will be the impact in terms of staff restructuring and future investment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, what a journey Proximus has come from the prehistoric animal that the RTT was to today's successful IT company! That was true until Tuesday. On that day, you, as we learned in the press, that this company intended to dismiss 1,900 people within three years and re-engage 1,250 others. The company aims at "an additional gross reduction in costs of around €240 million by 2022". Like you, Prime Minister, I wonder how the case was handled by the company's management. I regret it all the more because it is a woman who is at her head. First of all, it is harmful as to form. The Belgian State, with 53% shares, is the majority shareholder of this company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u19	It's an incredible thing!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u20	No, I'm a feminist. And that's precisely why...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u21	That's why he can afford it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u22	That's why I can afford it. As such, Prime Minister, as a representative of the government, you should have been informed of the situation. That was clearly not the case. Although this is not mandatory, because the Renault law does not apply in this case, I note that the CEO of Proximus has not even informed the workers of the strategic choices that it wished to set. She had announced a few years ago, when she took office: "More respect, more transparency and more social dialogue." On the merits of the case, Ms Leroy stated that the company must cope in particular with the evolution due to digitalisation within the company. Of course, we can only share this analysis! Of course, Proximus is operating in a competitive and fast-paced industry. However, questions must be asked about timing. Prime Minister, before I ask my question, I want to make it clear that, contrary to what Ms.Lalieux said, you have been particularly responsive on this issue. Could you give us some information on the consultations that have taken place, on the steps that have been taken these days, and on the steps that you plan to take in the coming days and weeks with a view to maintaining employment within Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is understandable that Proximus wants to reorganise itself in order to function better in the context of a changing market. This may even be necessary in order to safeguard employment in the longer term. However, the fact that a huge number of staff would be discharged through different systems of early retirement is unacceptable in the light of the many open vacancies and the ever-increasing cost of ageing. You can deny that, Mrs Kitir, but it is a reality. Mrs Kitir, the use of these systems is not good for the workers who are being dumped. Reactivation, on the other hand, is where we need to go. Such use is a financial tragedy for social security and for taxpayers. As you well know, therefore, from an economic point of view it cannot be defended that, at a time when there are a lot of open vacancies, those workers would be dumped for good in the sinks of the SWT. You know that well enough. Your party would better defend the interests of those workers rather than lose weight. Prime Minister, the activation of people and increased effectiveness have always been priorities of the Michael I government. I hope that at least that has not changed. Indeed, more than ever, it is necessary to increase the level of activity, to increase purchasing power and to defend the financing of social security. I therefore hope that the government, as well as Proximus, as an employer and the trade unions, will show a sense of responsibility in order to find solutions, to keep the staff working through reorientation, training, retraining and guidance to new jobs within their own organisation or to the other organisations. Mr Prime Minister, that is why I have the following questions. Will the government allow Proximus to make massive and improper use of various systems of early retirement or leave prior to retirement? What will you do to help, support and guide Proximus employees?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u24	Mr President, Ministers, we have taken note of the announcement made by Proximus. That is not good news for the workers and families who are confronted with that media message. However, we must distinguish between false solutions and real solutions to that problem. What are false solutions? That is when politicians want to play entrepreneur again and say what should actually be done in an autonomous public sector. We didn't study for that. Leave it to the entrepreneurs to undertake. That's not our role. When a management is appointed, it is they who have to make decisions and defend them. What else is a false solution? That is to get rid of the older workers by dumping them into inactivity, which we have been trying to get rid of for years. This is detrimental to the people who work there and who have that age, as Mr Vanden Burre said. If one makes another plan with which SWT or something similar is introduced, who will be the first to be thrown out? Those are the people of 56, 57, 58 years old. That's just the signal we don't want to give. That is also the philosophy of last summer's work deal. If my group has a big question, it is that all the rules that we have agreed on there and which we want to apply to the private sector also apply to companies such as Proximus. Firstly, conduct a proper social dialogue. Although the legislation does not require that, do so. Secondly, the philosophy of the labor deal is to stop putting the late fifties into inactivity. School these people. Help them to take another job, preferably with Proximus himself, if possible, or elsewhere. There's a shortage on the labour market. We can train these people enough to find a new job. That's the signal from the labor deal. It is that full implementation that our group would like to ask you. The social consultation started with a false note. How do you see the future of social dialogue? Is there a system or a question from Proximus on the table about the age of 58 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u25	Mr President, in addition to the question put by my colleague Mrs Karine Lalieux to the Prime Minister, I would like to speak directly to Deputy Prime Minister Kris Peeters. Deputy Prime Minister, we all know someone who works at Proximus. Thousands of families today live in anguish. Let's be clear! This decision is not entirely unrelated to the policy pursued by your government, particularly with the desire to open the market to a fourth operator. In this case, your responsibility is engaged. In fact, one perceives the malaise when it comes to a fourth operator, when one speaks of the measures that have been taken. The Prime Minister, to save the face in the press, sees himself pushing wings and says, "There will be no dry layoffs." Deputy Prime Minister, for your part, you have indicated that you are fighting the restructuring plan. But tell us now how you're going to do it. For it is you, Deputy Prime Minister, with your government, which has not yet resigned, who have drastically complicated access to pre-pensions. With your policy, voluntary departures are increasingly difficult to imagine. And dry layoffs are increasingly to be feared. The company that terminates is also less responsible. I have seen parliamentary colleagues CD&V go back and say that pre-pensions are a possibility, while we have heard here that colleagues from the N-VA and the Open Vld are closing the door permanently: it is no! It seems to relive the Carrefour case in which, with the same violence, in the face of workers who have been thrown at the door, the right-wing parties tell the workers that they are not entitled to the recognition offered by the pre-pensions. Deputy Prime Minister, in the Carrefour case, you were able to get away with it by referring to the law. But here, it is precisely you who have decided to amend the law as part of the "jobs deal", so that no pre-pension is granted until the age of 59 in 2019 and 60 in 2020. Deputy Prime Minister, how are you going to fight the restructuring plan? How are you going to avoid dry layoffs, as the Prime Minister says? Will you, yes or no, provide for derogations from pre-pensions, as the staff members who live in distress today wish?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are asking Proximus to do the homework again. The answer was a press conference and a communication explaining the plan. A company must indeed transform and modernise, but this must also be done in the area of personnel policy. I find it difficult to understand that a company like Proximus is unable to carry out the modernisation by reorienting its own employees and guiding them to another job within the company. Employers, as well as the public authorities, are full of flexibility and lifelong learning. But when we look at practice, we see that this is being unilaterally passed on to the workers. The employee is the victim. Apparently there is absolutely no possibility of reorientation or guidance at Proximus because otherwise 1 900 people would not be dumped and 1 250 new recruits. I do not understand why such steps are being taken in a time of yellow hoops. More and more workers are treated as farm animals. In other words, 1 900 people are transported to the slaughterhouse. It's going to be a social tragedy for 1 900 families. We should not talk about digitisation because this is not a new phenomenon. They've known that for years. We must prepare the staff for this. That's the job of a company, especially a company like Proximus where the government is a majority shareholder. I can't understand this. Prime Minister, you say you're resisting naked dismissals. My question to you is therefore what solutions you have in mind. Apparently, SWT isn't possible in this file? Or are you going to change the law? Or are you going to have Proximus do his homework again so that the company itself can reorient its staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister says he does not know anything. I don't really believe that. I assume that Mr De Clerck and Mr De Gucht have a telephone at their disposal? But if you said you didn't want to know, Prime Minister, I believe you. The way you deal with this is a symbol of this government's disinterest in public companies. In the case of SNCB, there is no management contract and no vision. At bpost there is malaise in the company and social unrest. And now there's Proximus, and again we see people are worried. And at Proximus, you actually caused it yourself, especially the blank cartridge of Minister De Croo on a fourth telecom player now gives cause in the sector to carry out reorganisations and to fire employees. Other colleagues also talk about jobs, jobs, jobs. I note that 1 900 people are being thrown into the street like a garbage bag, because there is no longer any mention of an internal retraining of those people, as happened in the past. It is said that 1 250 other employees will be recruited, but it is not said whether this will be in Belgium, because some of them will be outsourced. That is why I believe that the staff, and only the staff, are currently paying the price of the liberal minister's policy of announcement, because we are not talking about a reduction in the dividend of EUR 260 million, which is in the budget. Colleagues from the N-VA and the Open Vld, of those 1 900 people who are involved here, may be eligible for an SWT only for a very limited number. What I don't understand is this. When it comes to a retirement or retirement allowance of several hundred thousand euros for a CEO, I do not hear you. But when it comes to a right for an ordinary worker, who has worked in that company for thirty years or more, the barn is too small and you are standing here roaring that SWT cannot. Let us be honest, for those people, for those who need it most, the legislation must provide protection. Mr President, on the one hand, the Prime Minister says that he will resist, but on the other hand, Minister Peeters says that nothing can be done. What will the government do, Prime Minister? What is the government going to do, as the largest shareholder? Will there be a choice for the employees or only for the shareholders? In the latter case, this means that we are once again choosing to bury our heads in the sand with regard to public undertakings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, the news that 1 900 jobs will disappear at Proximus came yesterday as a thunderbolt in the clear sky, first and foremost for the workers of Proximus and their families. In the case of major restructurings, it is often the case that the media are more aware than the employees of the company itself. It was now. I deeply regret this, especially since it is not just a public body but because the core business of Proximus is exactly communication. Prime Minister, public enterprises also have an exemplary role and a social role to play in corporate social responsibility. It is clear that there must be a serious step forward in the area of social dialogue. That is why I am suggesting that we are working on a kind of Renault law for public companies, as there is no such procedure or regulation for restructuring public companies at present. Proximus works in a highly competitive environment and needs to adapt to the challenges in the telecoms sector in order to maintain its position. This is not evident for workers who have joined the digital revolution, but there is much that can be achieved with training and further training. That too is corporate social responsibility. The question arises as to whether Proximus has done enough. In recent years, Proximus moved 900 jobs from the future to India. Well, we cannot be supposed to export new jobs. These new jobs need to be created here, especially when it comes to own public enterprises. We firmly believe in lifelong learning to keep workers agile in the labour market. Since Proximus is a public body, I think it should be an example. I agree with Mr Lachaert when he says that the government should not deal with operational decisions of public companies. However, the question arises as to whether the government, as the largest shareholder in the board of directors, has assumed sufficient responsibility. The added value of a public undertaking is that corporate social responsibility also plays a role in making strategic decisions. As the largest shareholder in the board of directors, we must also bear in mind this social role and role as a model and not just profits. In this context, I would like to ask the following questions. What is the state of play of the multiannual plan and the social dialogue at Proximus? Will Proximus stop moving jobs to India? In what way have the social partners been informed and involved in the future plans in recent days and weeks? Prime Minister, what guidelines did you give during your consultation with the CEO of Proximus?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course addressing my first words to the Proximus workers. I share the message of those who expressed their solidarity, because we can imagine that many families today experience a sense of fear after the chaotic communication of recent days. I will try to answer the various questions that have been asked. My colleagues will complete my answers with some details. First of all, Proximus is an autonomous state-owned company that falls, Mrs.Lalieux, under particular legislation. Indeed, this company has evolved on various occasions, in particular at the beginning of "strategic consolidations", called modestly as such and covering, in reality, openings to private capital. Secondly, this creates a situation that leads to Proximus not being simply a public service or an administration. It is an autonomous public enterprise, which is not a detail and is listed on the stock exchange. The various benches of Parliament are well aware that a publicly traded company is faced with legislation passed by this House, and hence with constraints and obligations, particularly with regard to confidentiality, in connection with decision-making and governance processes. I have heard, coming from certain benches, a lot of demagogy, counter-truths and simplistics on this subject. Thirdly, I confirm what I have already said: Proximus is an important company for our economy, a company of substantial importance, which counts many employees. It is active in a sector which is fundamental for the future. The digital agenda is one of the key pillars of our investment strategy for the future. That's not a coincidence. No one learns until today that Proximus is an important company, that has to adapt to the challenges of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. That is important for today's jobs, but also for tomorrow's and the day after tomorrow's jobs. It is important for growth today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Dear Mr. Hedebouw, a society that does not take into account economic dynamics and chooses to remain on its feet, without paying attention to transformations, is in fact confronted sooner or later with social tragedies. This is obviously the model that you appreciate and that you naturally embody. That's not our model. We therefore support these necessary transformation and adaptation efforts. Another thing is the announcement by the management of a social plan. On this subject, I confirm my words, Mr. Maingain. I'm confirming what I said. Tuesday in the course of the afternoon I have learned of an intention.This word is important! The management of Proximus and the board of directors of a proposal for a social part transformation plan. According to my information, after a meeting we immediately organised with colleagues on Wednesday morning, we understand that the Board of Directors has only taken note, without explicit approval, of a management intention on a transformation plan and has given a mandate for consultation of the trade unions. That's not even a negotiation with the unions yet. This is a very big difference from what I have heard in this hemisphere over the last few minutes. This is a very important point. In coordination with my government colleagues, I responded immediately on the evening of the disclosure of this information, announcing that the copy should be reviewed in substance and form. I continue and I sign: Proximus must assume its responsibilities to ensure its future development, to guarantee growth, to guarantee its role, to guarantee competitiveness, to guarantee investment, but also to ensure - this is essential to us - that social dialogue is maximized. We are also making sure that this is the case. So we let the unions know that we were available, tomorrow, to meet them and conduct this dialogue, even if it is not up to the government to lead it, but to the company. As the primary shareholder (53%), the government will also fully assume its responsibilities. At this stage, we are talking about a consultation process and not yet about negotiations. It's the government's will to resist naked layoffs. We need to look at alternatives to the maximum. I agree with those who have said that it must be an absolute priority for the company and for the other actors, including the trade unions and the government, to give people a chance of training for either another job within the company or for a job in another company. That must be an absolute priority. The DNA of our government, which is now a minority government in current affairs, remains the same. Jobs and investments are our absolute priorities. I have heard a few strange things about this again, but with its measures this government has created more than two hundred thousand jobs in four years. In 2018 alone, based on the latest official figures from the administrations, more than 40,000 jobs were created. The number of self-employed increased by 6% compared to the situation four years ago. Investments have gone up again. At present, our country is again attractive for foreign investment: + 4% of investment. These are extremely important results. We remain determined, even in current cases. We will continue to take our responsibility actively and fully as a government and as a shareholder. My two colleagues will certainly provide Parliament with additional information on the other points. We are totally determined to be on the side of the future for this Proximus company, which can guarantee as much as possible to those who are concerned today because of a communication that has not been optimal - that is the least we can say! - that everything is done, that everything is mobilized to ensure that this company, which is healthy, remains healthy, and remains in a position to meet the challenges of tomorrow in the service of the country's economy and so that jobs and investments can be guaranteed to the maximum extent possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u30	Mr President, I would first of all like to express my understanding of the concerns of the Proximus workers. The start of the new year is not very successful for them, for which I am very sorry. Many Proximus employees and their families are now worried. We must first underline this, also in the light of the recent debate. I hope to be able to clarify a number of things, because it is a pity that we are having debates without the necessary knowledge of the situation at Proximus. Firstly, there is the social dialogue. The Prime Minister stressed the importance of ensuring that the debate between the trade unions and the management of Proximus can proceed in complete serenity. We will invite the trade unions, just as we have done with the management, to know their concerns and to see to what extent the government can contribute to giving a serene debate in the company every opportunity. As soon as the Proximus trade unions can free themselves, we will sit with them. Secondly, it was also discussed whether or not the Renault Act should be applied. It is the application or non-application of the Renault law. I can confirm here that Proximus does not have an obligation to comply with the Renault Act. That's very clear. Article 62 of the Law of 13 February 1998 states that the information and consultation procedure applies only to undertakings covered by the 1968 collective agreement law. This is not the case for Proximus, which is covered by the 1991 Act, particularly the state-owned economic enterprises. Perhaps that has contributed to some ambiguity. The Renault Act is very clear: the management takes a decision and first communicates it to the works council, not to the political world, not to the ministers, even though there may be people with a past in politics on the board of directors. Maybe that confusion is the reason things turned out the way they did. That is why I agree with some people's call for clarity once and for all and for the Renault Act to apply to public companies. It has already been called upon to amend the Renault Act. For two years I have been asking the Group of Ten to modernise the Renault Act. I hope that this will now be made clear fairly quickly, so that in future there will be no discussion of the procedure to be followed, as in the case of Proximus. I call on the social partners in the Group of Ten. They are now meeting to resolve the problem. If they do not, I want to take an initiative with you here in Parliament, even though the government is in current affairs. I also regret that the discussion on SWT is conducted in this way. In this respect too, there is insufficient knowledge of the situation of Proximus. I told you, Proximus doesn't fall under the 1968 law. That is to say, colleagues, that Proximus falls outside the 1968 collective agreement law and cannot, in principle, conclude a collective agreement with SWT. Proximus cannot conclude a collective agreement in connection with SWT on the basis of current legislation. The debate on the age at which this can be done is therefore not currently under discussion. So what people are allowed to see and read about the discussion here about ages, that is not the issue. What you should know, and what is at issue, is that according to Article 16 of the 2007 Royal Decree Proximus, for example, can be assimilated to a company in restructuring, in so far as a collective agreement is concluded which is part of a restructuring plan, which has also been approved by the Council of Ministers. That's what Article 16 says. This means, firstly, a collective agreement within the company and, secondly, a restructuring plan. The Prime Minister has just given a text and explanation as to whether or not a restructuring plan has been approved. The debate on the SWT age and on the approach must be conducted at the right time and with the right tone, measures and agreements. Do you know when Article 16 was last applied? That was in 1999, when the company was still called Belgacom. At that time, on the basis of a restructuring plan, the government gave the possibility that the 1968 Law would also apply to the company. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. First of all, there will be social consultation in the company. We will see the trade unions for ourselves. Wherever we can, we will support dialogue in a serene manner. Secondly, I hope that an agreement will be reached with the social partners, but if it is not, I am calling for the Renault Act to be applied to public enterprises before 15 April. Thirdly, be careful, if you are already talking about SWT or bridge pension. Let us wait for the collective agreement and the restructuring plan, which can then be decided. One should not turn things around and make people more worried than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u31	Mr President, as the Prime Minister has just pointed out, Proximus operates in a very competitive environment. The telecoms market is in full swing. Proximus itself also needs to adapt to this rapidly changing and international reality. It does that by proposing a transformation plan now. Like the Prime Minister, I would like to point out that Proximus is an autonomous publicly traded company. It must be able to prepare for the future. That is the role of the board of directors. That's the job of management. I absolutely do not want to go back to the times, as some have suggested here, of the old RTT, where the political world was in full control. We have made choices in that regard. We must respect those choices and the rules of the game that go with them. The responsibility of the board of directors and management is important. They must be able to guarantee the company's long-term strategy, course and health. This is absolutely a difficult exercise, firstly because of the announcement that 1 900 workers are at risk of losing their jobs. My fellow Members have just pointed out that social dialogue is extremely important for this aspect. It is important that the social partners in the company speak with each other. They need to see whether human solutions can be found and whether naked layoffs can be avoided. They should also consider where additional investment can be made in training and further training. Indeed, such profiles are highly desirable in the digital market. Reference has also been made to the fourth operator. We explicitly asked during our maintenance whether the fourth operator has an impact on the current situation. The management's response was clear that that had no impact. Even without that fourth player, the plan would be implemented in full and unabated. That is an important aspect, because some of you have referred to it. If that clarity comes from the Proximus side, all I can say is that the transformation plan is needed to prepare the company for the future. The management and board of directors now need to organise human and social dialogue to see how job losses can be avoided and how the future of the company can be secured. After all, the company needs to be prepared for a rapidly changing world with a rapidly changing market. It must develop new products and services for the benefit of customers and consumers. Ultimately, this will ensure the long-term growth and well-being of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u32	Prime Minister, incantations are not enough. On the one hand, there must be guarantees over the duration of the negotiations and, on the other hand, about the absence of dry redundancies. I note that the CEO has just told the press, with regret, that there are likely to be dry layoffs. Prime Minister, I see no pledge from you! I hear here that you will continue the project of the fourth operator when we know that the management of Proximus, FEB, Agoria, Telenet and Orange had warned you. They said it would be a social disaster if you continued your ideological plan to compete at all costs and not to respect the workers of our companies. How can we ask a public company, Prime Minister, to make investments, to offer a service to our citizens who need it when we do not respect public enterprises, when we do not respect tradition and when we do not respect dialogue with management? Today, I didn't hear anything from you, neither did the families, nor the workers. Unfortunately, they will remain in anguish. This resigning government is facing workers who are going to be laid off!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u33	Prime Minister, what you have not said in a clear and certain way are the instructions you give to the directors representing the state on the board of directors to oppose the project as presented. We ask you to be much clearer and that the directors of the state be summoned to further clarify their course of action on the board of directors. Minister of Public Enterprises, you are not going to be able to support the opposite of the truth. Here I have Agoria's note which states: "Strong job losses on the basis of the project to auction the frequency bands" and which reads: "Destabilising effects of a fourth operator on the telecommunications market in Belgium." Agoria's note details the likely loss of jobs in the telecommunications sector as a result of the introduction of a fourth operator. But I'll take your word. With my Challenge party, we are going to table a resolution in this House in the next few days, calling for the continuation of the project to introduce a fourth operator to be halted immediately! We will count on this Parliamentary Assembly to know who will support this project to stop your negotiations with a fourth operator and we will immediately see the consequences at Proximus. Finally, we will give the clear signal that we must send to the market in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u34	Prime Minister, that's pretty clear. We asked if you were going to oppose the reduction in the number of workers at Proximus. You said, "No, I'm not going to object." It's serious because you have the power to do it. You're on the board of directors. Besides, these people are not former politicians, minister. They are nominated by the various parties. So it's possible. We were waiting today for us to say, "No, we don't agree." Why? It is indeed a complete bankruptcy and you recalled the 1990s. What has been the outcome of these well-known strategic conciliations? At that time, there were two or three operators. There weren't even four of them. Since Belgacom, we have grown from 25,000 workers to 13,000 today. That makes 12,000 fewer workers. Is this the model of society you want? What's going on today? The example is very symptomatic of job creation in Belgium: 2,000 fewer jobs but Proximus announces 1,250 new jobs. What will be the working conditions of these new hires? This is the question: subcontracting, flexibility, reduced wages. That's what's already happening today. These people who now install the cables on our roads are subcontractors with lower wages of 300 or 400 euros compared to those of the parent company. This is the vision of society that you are developing. You say the archaic are the RTT's. You're wrong. It is you who are archaic, you who are going to expose people to stress, to indefinite hours, to reduced wages. But, as Belgians' incomes will be reduced through index jumps and job losses, who will still consume what these companies produce? We are at the heart of the spiral of the complete economic blockage of the European Union. Instead of having a spiral upwards, we continue downwards. The crisis will continue. Minister, this is where you have to intervene to block this type of job reduction in a company where you have power and not just the stock market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u35	Mr Minister, you say that we must ensure the development of this undertaking with a maximum of social dialogue. Yes, I hope that there will be a social dialogue which will essentially lead to the maximum preservation of employment. Through your speech, we must ensure that this company can face the challenges of tomorrow and the day after. Digitalisation, this economic transition, is well under way and will affect all sectors of the economy. It will, of course, create jobs, but others will no longer exist. I am concerned about all those people who will be caught in the storm of this economic transition. The ideal would be for job losses to take place through natural departures or conversions, in-house training in the company, but when natural departures are no longer enough, when it is no longer possible to train certain people, what will be done? How will we succeed in this economic transition to digitalization? I regret that this government, faced with this question on several occasions, has still not been able to answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u36	Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your answers. I have two important replica elements. Firstly, I note that you will play an active role in social dialogue. It's fundamental. Every effort must be made, with real political action, to ensure that the least number of people and families are on the job and that there are as little dry layoffs as possible. But it will take a lot more! I repeat my question: what are the orders, the guidelines you are going to give to the administrators representing the federal state in Proximus? This is a fundamental question! What will be their course of action? Secondly, what is the fundamental debate we have today and have been conducting for many years? It deals with the role of the State in the economy, the role of the shareholder State in public enterprises. But we're still in a caricatural debate. I mean, with those who are still defending public companies, we're going back to public services. No, that's not right! We do not defend the idea that the policy manages companies on a daily basis. That's not our vision! Our vision is an ambitious shareholder state, with a long-term and exemplary social and environmental vision! It is a shareholder state, not a state that is there on a daily basis. The cartoons emanating from Mr Lachaert of the Open Vld are not our vision. On the other hand, your vision is the laissez-faire of the last century. We don't take care of anything, we let it happen. However, when it comes to appointing Proximus administrators, you hurry to find the right people. But when it comes to influencing strategic decisions, there's no one left. We regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u37	Prime Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. In fact, I note that some, including Proximus's boss, use the argument that a new operator might arrive and thus try to take responsibility for the loss of these 1,900 jobs. One thing is certain, in the real economy, prices cannot be reduced without competition. If the consumer wants to access a low-cost telecommunications offer, while taking advantage of the latest technologies, this requires greater competition and investment in research and development. For us, in the MR, it was the responsibility of Proximus and his boss to anticipate these developments sufficiently. It is now up to them to find an effective solution so that they do not have to achieve the dry and brutal dismissal of 1,900 employees. Finally, on a positive note, I would remind you that some time ago we discussed ING's problem here. Do you remember the cry of orfray that we have also uttered on the social level? It is now clear that finally ING, thanks to the intervention of the government, has been able to find solutions to avoid dry layoffs. That must be said, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u38	Prime Minister, I had to agree with you in the past. Now I can agree with you. That's a small difference. I am glad to be able to agree with most of the things that I hear from you and from colleagues. That reassures me. I have heard you specifically say that the government must give Proximus as a company space to prepare for the future. It can't be the intention of the government to retake management. I have heard you and my colleagues argue that we should focus on the activation of those involved, on retraining, on the reorientation of those people, on the one hand, by calling on Proximus to do so internally and on the other hand, by adopting a number of measures on a policy basis. I am thinking here of the job deal that contains measures that can help. We at N-VA have always said that we remain partners in the new minority government to implement that job deal. We have always added that we want the whole package to be applied. That would certainly be a solution here. Mr Peeters, I understand from you that in order to apply the SWT regime, there must first be an agreement ratified by the government. This confirms that the government has all the tools in hand. So I trust that you will have the power, and also that you will prevent this early retirement system from being used improperly. That is not in the interests of those workers, it is not in the interests of the company, and that is certainly not in the interests of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u39	Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. Mr Prime Minister, I think you have said it correctly: the state of play of this dossier today is that there is an intention, an intention of the management to undertake a certain restructuring. If we look at that intention correctly, it is now up to the works council, as the Minister of Work has said, to engage in a debate with the management within the company. Restructuring may sometimes be necessary. Politicians who tell a listed company what can and what can't say is not the way to do business. It is up to us to see if people get out in the social dialogue. That must be the first intention. As we said at the beginning, we insist that the focus of the consultation should be on saving as many jobs as possible at Proximus, and on retraining and further training. SWT cannot in principle be used by a company like Proximus. We look after retirement schemes that push people out of the labour market at a certain age. Whatever they may be called, we will never agree with that. We believe that the principles agreed for the work deal should be applied to the case of Proximus. That's what we're going for. We hope to do so not only here, but also for the private sector as a whole, with the full implementation of the principles of the work deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not react immediately because there is reason to be cautious about certain interventions. I'm trying to stay weighted. Sometimes I've been more inflamed. But we must be able, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to live up to the gravity of the situation. I have already said how annoyed the government is, but it must be even more so than I thought, given the interventions of our colleague from Open Vld. In my view, there is a real Shiism in understanding what a public enterprise is. For us, a public company has an exemplary value while for some here it can only be reduced to finally be privatized. Deputy Prime Minister, you are walking on eggs; we understand that. I never thought there was a left wing in the government, but you still don't share the view of your Open Vld colleague. You call for social consultation, a social consultation that the unions accuse you of not conducting, for more than four and a half years. But today you call it your wish because the situation is very serious. The Socialist Group wants to give every chance that these thousands of families can have hope and see the end of the tunnel with a very positive solution, which your previous decisions do not allow us to believe today. Mr. De Backer spoke. As he said, there is no doubt in his mind. The fourth operator has nothing to do with it. We have to go straight ahead, straight on. You're going to face a lot of difficulties. The time will pass and we will meet here, in a few days or in a few weeks, to see who will have won: the workers with strong support from the whole of this Parliament or the privatization which is constantly waiting. We want to help the workers because, for us, a public company must be more aided than ever and make our country proud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u41	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. Proximus has to come with us. Proximus must and will have to transform and modernise in the future, but we cannot say from Proximus that it is a caring employer if we just fire 1 900 people. You are right, Prime Minister, homework needs to be done again. We have to make sure there aren't any naked layoffs. Of course, it can be said that 1 250 new jobs will be created, the question will be where they will be found in such a tight labour market. After all, it is the profiles that all other companies are looking for. That's one problem. Or they're going to look for them abroad, which shouldn't be the intention. 1,900 people dump, I call it, when they are not retrained within the company and help a job within the company or reorientate. It would simply be based on the taxpayer and on the government, because then the government would be able to provide this reorientation and training. As it stands today, 650 jobs are net losses. Not jobs, jobs, jobs, but job losses. I agree with you. The way in which people have been treated and the communication that, as you said, has been chaotic, I call workers treated as farm cattle. People deserve a lot more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, I agree with you when you say that the digital agenda is important and is becoming more important. However, I note that your government's policy of announcement, in particular Minister De Croo's loose blanks on a fourth telecom player, has achieved the opposite, in particular less investment, less quality and massive redundancies. They're talking about the 1 250 jobs. My fear is that these new jobs for both high and low-skilled people will not be created in our country, but abroad. Prime Minister, I fully agree with you when you say that we should invest in people. I note, however, that this government's disinterest in public undertakings has not led to investment in people, but rather that they are being thrown out of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, Ministers, thank you for your reply. It is very important that we clarify this restructuring very quickly, first and foremost for workers. Our role in the coming days and weeks must be to give the social dialogue plenty of opportunities to avoid as many naked layoffs as possible, to ensure that good end-of-life arrangements can be worked out and, if necessary, good departure arrangements. This seems to me to be far more important today for the workers of Proximus, who live in uncertainty, than the political games about SWT, which are sometimes played here. So let's stick to the case. I call on the Proximus Board of Directors to carry out its exemplary role, both in terms of correct social relations and in terms of developing lifelong learning, as well as a good social solution to this restructuring.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, present members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, may I convey to you all my best wishes for the new year? After all, it is the first meeting of 2019. 2018 seems like an eternity ago. Remember the commotion that took place here during the most recent sessions. There's been a recess ever since. I have the impression that everyone, luckily but, also enjoyed it and started the new year with full energy. In fact, I have the impression that some people believe that nothing has happened and that they should move on to the order of the day. However, something has happened. Prime Minister, you offered the King the resignation of the government on 18 December 2018. In addition, on 21 December 2018, on your birthday, the resignation was accepted. That means your government isn't a resigning government. After all, you've been fired. This means something, namely that you and your government must deal with the current issues. You should look after the store and intervene when it is hoped that this will not happen too much, very serious formal facts that require immediate intervention. I'm thinking of disaster or attacks. We can accept and hope that this does not catch you. For the rest, the ball is in the camp of the institution which still has full authority, being the Chamber. It is therefore the Chamber that will have to take responsibility for taking action in the coming months. The idea of early elections was rejected. There were certainly arguments for that idea. After all, this obliges the Court to take action and to ensure that in the coming months, for example, part of Michel I's legacy can be carried out. However, I have heard a number of excellencies, a number of resigning They want to sell banks, do job deals and solve police shortages. Those ministers received a great deal of inspiration during the Christmas period, which is a good thing in itself. It would have been good, of course, if they had had that inspiration at the time when they had full authority. (...): (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u45	We shall allow Mr De Roover to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to resolve the problem. I did not say that we should watch without a job. However, that is the work of the current government. Mr Prime Minister, my question is as follows. How does the current government intend to fulfil its role of government in current cases in the coming weeks and months? What powers does the Commission intend to exercise? Where can the limits of these powers be laid? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u47	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my best wishes for the new year. Our group very much hopes that the new year can also be a new beginning. The end of last year was very much about the irresponsibility of a particular party, it was very much about what could not and cannot do anymore in this country. We hope that the new year will be marked by the things that can still be done. I am not under any illusions, our entire programme will not be implemented suddenly in the coming months. Time is a little short and our plans are a little too ambitious. However, we hope that Parliament will be able to make a number of decisions. This requires a responsible and committed attitude on the part of this Parliament. It also requires a certain restraint on the part of the government in current cases. I do not agree with many of the things Mr De Roover has said, but Mr Peeters' statement that he suddenly wants to sell a bank or sell on current business does not exactly correspond to the intention of current business. Current cases do not have to be still cases, but current cases do require some restraint from the government. There is a need for cooperation with Parliament in a number of dossiers. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question on two matters. In your statements at the end of December, the priorities were purchasing power and climate. They were a lot better to us than what we had seen before from your government. Colleagues, over the last few hours there have been thousands of young people on the streets in our capital. They are asking us to step up our efforts in the area of climate change. Those young people were skipping school because they're tired of the climate change of Belgian politics. Prime Minister, you said here in December that you want to work on climate change. You also wanted to work on rising energy prices and you wanted to make purchasing power a priority together with us. Were you serious at the time, or was that just an ultimate attempt to save your skin? Secondly, Collega De Roover has called on you to show some restraint. I very much agree with this on one point, namely the conclusion and conclusion of royal decrees. Therefore, if Mr De Roover thinks that the government should be cautious, I cannot imagine that he thinks that the government should still conclude a royal decision on the degressivity of unemployment benefits. After all, a government cannot do that in current cases. She can't decide something like that by royal decision. Minister, will you stick to what is expected of a government in current affairs? Can you make it quite clear, also with regard to Mr Peeters, that this degressivity must be in the garbage can? It doesn't help to push people deeper into poverty. With an empty stomach, it's not gonna be better to apply. I look forward to your answer to these two important questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two points on which we agree. I did offer my resignation on December 18th. The King accepted the resignation of the government on 21 December. In concrete terms, that is not new in our history, it means that this government has been in progress since 21 December. The day the King's resignation was accepted, two important matters took place. Firstly, the King has expressed the wish that the two institutions, the minority government in current affairs and Parliament, should develop maximum cooperation in view of the budgetary, economic and international challenges of the coming weeks and months. Secondly, on 21 December I submitted two circular letters to my colleagues who were approved in an electronic Council of Ministers. These circulars are available to Parliament. Broadcasts on current cases are part of the tradition. A first circular contains the procedures which require great caution in this matter and which, if necessary, enable us to take initiatives in the event of urgent challenges. They also ask us to ensure the continuity of our State and to take account of the interests of the Nation, which is certainly important to you, Mr De Roover. A second important circular deals with budgetary effects. This situation calls for budgetary discipline with special rules and procedures, which must be applied with great caution. A distinction should be made between a fully operational government and government in current cases. I have also taken note of an important initiative by the President of the Chamber, in particular a consultation which will take place tomorrow to see what form or cooperation is possible, taking into account the priorities of the chairmen of the political groups in Parliament. That is also an answer to your question, Mr Calvo. Indeed, as I said a few weeks ago, even without the cooperation of the majority in Parliament, I think that we should try to achieve important points in the coming weeks in cooperation between the government and Parliament in the interests of our citizens. Finally, Mr De Roover, there is an important element for the minority government, namely the fact that there are many drafts in Parliament that were approved a few weeks or months ago by the government that still had a majority in Parliament. Like many of my colleagues in our assembly, I am, of course, very curious to see who is going to do what in relation to designs that were approved a few weeks ago before the government's resignation. It is the responsibility of the committees in Parliament to set the agenda, but the minority government, supported by only 52 Members, is and will remain coherent and responsible. I hope everyone will stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u49	Mr Prime Minister, on-going business concerns ensuring continuity, you say. That goes without saying. Like I say, things can happen where stalling isn't an option. There is also the budgetary discipline, which we have also called for. For that, you will find an ally in us. Mr Calvo, you are referring to the KBs, but you are a bit behind schedule, because we have tabled a legislative proposal to introduce the regulation of degressivity, because we do believe that KBs can no longer be a policy instrument today. The government does not have a majority or even a programme which has received Parliament's agreement, so policy-making royal decisions are out of the question. Mr Prime Minister, you are referring to old draft laws, and I dare to assume that you are implicitly saying that the government will quite rightly not submit new draft laws and that we will work together with Parliament so that we can ensure continuity in decision-making. For this we will be a constructive partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. First of all, I cannot stress enough that I sincerely hope that your government will be truly an ally of current purchasing power and climate issues. As far as we are concerned, climate also includes energy supplies. Parliament urgently needs to adopt draft laws or legislative proposals, commissions or support for gas plants. I hope that the 150 Members of Parliament realize that the lamp must be lit in a prosperous country like Belgium. Let us do in the next four months what Minister Marie-Christine Marghem has unfortunately left behind for four years. Secondly, we still have ten Thursdays left, so I suggest that we use them well. This also means not losing time to things that make people's lives more difficult. What N-VA is trying to do is clear: the N-VA is trying you and CD&V, isn't it, Minister Peeters? To re-enforce blackmail. After all, the N-VA will only approve the drafts from the previous era, she says, if you also approve its bill on the degressivity of unemployment benefits. I see that you are shaking no, and I hope you stand firm, because in the past things have been different, and in the past you have plundered in that area. I would therefore ask the Christian Democrats to bury that anti-social proposal on degressivity definitively. People do not get better if they have to worry even more at the end of the month or if they have to apply with an empty stomach. So, Mr De Roover, if you are hoping to get your bill on degressivity approved, our group will do everything it can to convince Parliament of the contrary. There are a lot of things that have to be done. Pushing people deeper into poverty, however, we will not do. I look forward to having the debates with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u51	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - we all expect - is of particular concern. The Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI) announced last night, on the basis of provisional results, the victory of Felix Tshisekedi in the presidential election. Two facts are to be mentioned. First, the results announced by CENI confirm the self-proclaimed victory of the opposition, but surprise the order of arrival of the first two candidates. Then, in three electoral districts, voters will go to the polls in March. Could this last electoral chapter question Felix Tshisekedi's victory? Deputy Prime Minister, these results are the result of a chaotic electoral process, as you yourself have described. Can you tell us if it is possible to hope that these figures will be published? If so, when will they be? They should be analysed and compared. What will the Security Council do to shed light on these electoral results? In addition, do African regional organizations also play a pacifying role in the successful conclusion of this electoral process? I would also like to know whether you share the first comments of your French counterpart, giving credence to the statements of the Episcopal Conference of the Congo, according to which the provisional results do not correspond to the data collected by the observers of the Catholic Church of the Congo. Then, in view of the contestation of these first results, do you fear the political violence that could ultimately strike the thousands of Belgians on the spot? More positively, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is there a dichotomy between the capital and the rest of the country and between the presidential and legislative elections in your first election figures? Indeed, a form of political coherence of electoral results would be an essential basis for rebuilding the Congolese State in the service of its citizens. Finally, in the event of a definitive and indisputable victory, is the Belgian State available for a constructive and peaceful resumption of our diplomatic and military relations with Kinshasa?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u52	Mr President, Mr Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we woke up with the rather surprising result of the Congolese presidential elections. While everyone focused on the conflict between Shadary and Fayulu, Félix Tshisekedi is the laughing third. The Congolese electoral committee, against all expectations, identified him as the winner of these elections. Colleagues, there were no foreign observers for the elections in Congo, only domestic observers. In such a case, as an international community, we expect proof and guarantees of the authenticity of the electoral result communicated. It is therefore understandable that this statement by the Committee on Elections raises major questions. The Congolese bishops' conference Cenco made it seem in recent days that, on the basis of their extensive observation missions, Fayulu would be the signed-off winner. The French Foreign Minister said this morning that the official results are not in line with the results that could be established here and there on the ground. Fayulu doesn't seem to agree to the ruling of the Election Committee either. In his first reaction he mentioned an electoral coup, a coup d'état. Currently he seems to be waiting for the official response of the Cenco. This response is expected this evening. Given Fayulu's popularity, it is not imaginary that large-scale protests will occur among the population. This could also pose a security risk for the approximately 4 000 Belgians currently residing in the Congo. My questions are as follows, Mr Vice Prime Minister. How do you respond to the results communicated by the Congolese Election Commission? What will we do if the Cenco rejects these results? What steps can be taken at international level? I am thinking in particular of the UN Security Council in which our country sits. Can we, for example, call for a joint declaration? Finally, what steps has the Belgian Government already taken to anticipate possible disturbances that could put the Belgians at risk on the ground? Has there been any contact with countrymen in the Congo? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u53	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would first like to welcome this massive vote by the Congolese people. These elections, for which the Congolese population paid the price of blood, were long overdue. Many demonstrations had been repressed in blood since January 2015, remember: in July 2016, December 2017, January 2018, February 2018. These elections have finally taken place. The Congolese voted massively, peacefully, despite the chaos, despite the difficulties, despite the cheating. Secondly, I would like to pay tribute to Congolese civil society. My colleagues have referred to the episcopal conference, but there is also CIMOCEL and other observers who have insisted that, as far as possible, the results of the elections reflect the will of the Congolese people, a will for change, visibly. This night, CENI made an announcement and proclaimed Mr Tshisekedi as the provisional winner of these elections. The good news is that we are turning the page of the Kabila era, which has nevertheless been a very dark era in the history of Congo, with its lot of misery and violence. But it is true that we hear immediately a series of protests following this proclamation, on the part of the other candidate, Mr Martin Fayulu, but also of the episcopal conference, CENCO, which said that this did not reflect his election observation. France, too, said that the election was not in conformity. Minister for Foreign Affairs, what is your opinion on this outcome, on these elections and on the future of this country? We're very worried. I hear that there are already violence in Kikwit today, that there are already dead and wounded. What is your opinion? What will be Belgium's position on the Security Council tomorrow? It is important that the European Union speak with one voice. I also believe that it is very important that the international community, if possible, speak with one voice. What are your contacts with the African Union? What are your contacts with Congolese civil society? I believe that we should provide all the necessary support to ensure that the Congo recovers, that the people are respected in their choices and that the page of cheating, corruption and poverty can be turned to the Congo. We hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we have already had the opportunity to talk about this electoral process on many occasions. In collaboration with our diplomacy, I have done everything possible to ensure that these elections can take place. The latter did indeed take place two years late. But they finally took place on 30 December, although unfortunately it was in a climate that was certainly not perfect. Indeed, a number of candidates were prevented from running. There was also a ban to vote in different cities, at least in three major cities in the DRC. In addition, there was a ban on using the Internet and texting. Many international journalists were also banned from entering the country. There were no observers from the international community, the European Union, the United States or the United Nations, only some of the African Union and the SADC. Furthermore, there was only internal control. However, it was still possible to hold elections on 30 December, with a delay of one week. And now there is a delay with regard to the publication of the results. I asked a few days ago for a correct disclosure of the results, which thus give a correct picture of the Congolese's voting behaviour. I would like to say that, last night, I took note of the results provisionally announced by CENI, exclusively, Mr Miller, for the presidential elections. We are waiting for the results for the legislative and provincial elections. It seems that the possible results of an election in a part of the republic next March will not be taken into account. It is the current results that are being used to determine who will be the new President. I want to go back to a third element after the election process and the knowledge of the results. This is the reaction of Congolese society itself. We must listen to this society today. We have no international observers. The CENCO, the Episcopal Conference, confirmed earlier that the results announced by CENI did not correspond to the results it had observed in its observation missions. CENCO has a strong observation mission structure. This element is of course taken into account. You also talked about the reactions of candidates. The other major opposition candidate, Martin Fayulu, has already contested the election result. Now what? Belgium will go in the same direction with the African Union and the European Union. We call on all actors in the Congo to respond. We also call for all normal and normal procedures to be followed. If necessary, there are internal procedures for contesting the results. I think it is important to insist on the non-use of violence and respect for internal procedures. We must, in the next few hours and in the next few days, listen, I repeat, to what Congolese society itself is going to say. The credibility of the elections, as I said before the elections, will only be there if the Congolese and Congolese themselves recognize that credibility. Internal procedures should be highlighted. We have a common position with our partners. My French colleague has just repeated what CENCO has just officially confirmed. Today or tomorrow, we will have a new briefing in the United Nations Security Council so that we can discuss the future of operations, but I repeat, first of all, the continuation of operations in the Congo. One word simply to conclude, Mr President, on the one hand on the situation of Belgians on the spot. We reinforced our messages to them by asking them, if possible, not to stay in the country if there is no obligation to be present. A very large number of them have already made their arrangements. Schools will not be reopened until later. There has been a postponement in this area and I have had the opportunity yesterday, I am not going to do it again here, to brief the Commission in charge of military operations in camera on what we have organised as a follow-up and preparation on this matter. Finally, on the resumption of relations, Belgium has never broken any relationship with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. There has been the cessation of a small part of the development cooperation programme. For the rest, we have always said that we are ready to resume cooperation - military cooperation is really very heavy - but the reopening of the Schengen house, the reopening of the Consulate General in Lubumbashi, the reopening of the Consulate General of the DRC in Antwerp. All this depends on the Congolese authority. We are open, as I have said very often, to having a normal relationship with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in all these respects. In the hours and days ahead, we will be very attentive to the security on the spot, of course, but also, I repeat, to the reaction of Congolese society itself. That is what we must first check, hoping that all internal procedures will be used before we have to take an attitude on the international scene.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would also like to thank you for your insistence on supporting the organisation of the elections. This has been a constant in your policy and in your responses to Parliament on several occasions. I would also like to thank you for your attention to the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo as Minister of Foreign Affairs, but also as Minister of Defence. As you said yesterday in the Military Operations Monitoring Committee, you have just recalled. The situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is particularly worrying. We're all rushing him. The fact that the population voted massively is a real sign of hope. There is a sense that people want to believe in their institutions. Everything must be done not to disappoint her. There is a great desire, shared by all the Democrats, to see a halt to the infernal cycle of misery and violence that has plagued Africa for so long and the DRC in particular. I believe that the international community and the European institutions must pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u56	Mr Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. You are right, the Congolese people must accept the result and express any reactions. We must hope that these reactions will not be too violent. Yesterday I was present on the Committee for the Succession of the Foreign Shipments. You reassured us and told us that you have taken measures, including in your capacity as Minister of Defence, to put everything in place to ensure the security of the Belgians on the ground. I also believe that we should make maximum use of our membership of the UN Security Council to bring this election result to the international level. Whatever happens in Congo, the international community is always looking at Belgium first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u57	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I can of course join you in the fact that first and foremost it is for the Congolese to draw their future, if possible in harmony and in a calm manner. The next few hours and days will be decisive from this point of view. I think the Congolese are relieved today because they have turned a page. They hope so anyway. We'll see about it. I believe that they also expect us to be the guardians of truth and democracy. These problems of democracy do not concern only the Congo; we see that democracy is being attacked all over the world. It will be important that we pay attention to this issue. Again, it is true that it is up to the Congolese to draw their future. I would simply say that there is one point on which we will have to pay attention. You have referred on several occasions to internal procedures in the Congo. We know the "quality" of these procedures. You mustn't be delusional. I think that these internal procedures will not be the only way to rely on them. We must continue to ensure, as you have done, as we have long been doing, that the Congolese people can one day emerge from violence, war and misery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u58	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, New Year's Eve was another turbulent night for the emergency services in the capital. Especially in Molenbeek we were faced with excessive violence, destruction, smashing and destroying street furniture. Robbed and looted in stores and a pharmacy. The emergency services that came to the scene were themselves the victims of the aggression. Firefighters were pounded with stones and firefighters were damaged. Let us be clear, we are all on the same page: aggression against these people who must guarantee our safety cannot be tolerated at all. We need to ensure that people who are ready daily to help fellow citizens with their safety can do their job in a good and safe way. Minister, you have announced that you will carry out various investigations to check the functioning of the police forces. Do you already have the results of these investigations and can you give some explanation? What steps will you take to ensure better organisation of police services? We have called for this on several occasions, and you are right to say that the unification of the six Brussels police zones would lead to a better organisation. Will you take steps to sit around the table with stakeholders? Last but not least, will you take measures to improve the protection of aid workers in the event of such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u59	Mr Demon, firstly, violence against emergency services and police forces is unacceptable. That is an important starting point. Secondly, with regard to the specific situation which took place between 31 December and 1 January of this year, a preliminary report shows that reinforcement was not requested at first, but subsequently. This reinforcement was offered by the Brussels Centre's emergency services. It was made available immediately and was found to be sufficient. Only afterwards has there been the detection of excess violence. Thirdly, it is quite clear that identification was one of the major problems that arose. It is not possible that even after previous riots the identification does not occur when complaints are submitted. That is a very clear mission given. The General Police Inspectorate has now been instructed to conduct an in-depth investigation. All I got was a fact-finding report. What I'm telling you now is from that fact-finding investigation. There can be no physical or material violence against emergency services. Identification is also one of the main points that must be made in order not only to control violence, but also to ensure that those who have suffered damage, be it public or private owners, can file a file for insurance purposes. You have asked me what will be done to better manage these matters in the future. Like so many others, I have expressed the wish that all police areas in the Brussels region should be merged. That is a matter for discussion. I think that's inevitable. I stand by that view because it will enable us to avoid double structures, promote mobility and use proximity police as a priority. We shall see what can be done in the future, but it is clear that we must now be able to go together with those responsible for the areas in the first management. I've seen there's a great will to be able to do that. What has happened is unacceptable and cannot repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I am glad to hear that you are taking action. It was not the first time such incidents occurred there on New Year's Eve. We await the in-depth investigation. I ask you to sit around the table with all the stakeholders, to come to unity quickly and surely, even though it remains within those different zones, to move to unit of command. After all, that is important. I am pleased to hear that you will do even more to protect our aid workers in carrying out their important task.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u61	Mr President, Minister, as the trial of the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels is barely beginning, a terrorist trial directly involving a Muslim guided by the Islamic State and specifically targeting our Jewish compatriots, we discover with astonishment that the president of the imams of Belgium called, a few years ago, "to burn Jews". Moreover, today it is the imam of the largest mosque in Europe, 3,500 squares located in the heart of Molenbeek, the pool of jihadists who struck in Belgium and France. The mosque also administers schools where young people are trained, if not indoctrinated. Some claim that he has since moderated his sermons but the hate video is still on YouTube ten years later: thirty-one minutes of total hatred and a call to murder! This imam has actively contributed through its widely disseminated words on networks and its status to the manufacture of jihadists, murderers. It was this style of preaching that prompted Muslims to act. What guarantee do we have that his ideology has changed significantly? None! It is said today to be open to dialogue, but is it not a form of taqiya, of cunning promoted by the Qur'an to the unbelievers to save time? [[And still!]] This character has spoken public words in a sermon that challenges the very foundations of our society. President of the imams of Belgium, he occupies a central mission within Islam at home. That's all! For the People's Party and many citizens, the hate preachers must be put out of order to harm, removed from contaminate those who want to live peacefully among us. We must preserve our society, our values, our citizens. In a word, civil peace! The preservation of public order authorizes you, Minister, to expel him from the territory, in the same way as the Imam de Verviers. But also, if it is recognized and subsidized by the State as a minister of worship, you can immediately deprive it of that status. Our fellow citizens would not understand that the leaders of this country show any weakness in the face of this individual. Minister, my question is simple. What concrete measures are you going to take against this hate preacher?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u62	Minister, the facts have already been outlined by Mr Carcaci. A few days ago, footage of a sermon by the chairman of the Imams League of Belgium, Mohamed Toujgani, in which he called for the extermination, burning and extermination of the Zionist oppressor. In Islamic circles, Zionist oppressor is the code word for the Jews. The imam involved is also the chairman of the Imams League of Belgium, and the leader, the leader, of perhaps the largest mosque in this country and far beyond, the Al-Khalilmoskee in Molenbeek. His call defies all imagination. Of course, that appeal also says everything about the violent and very anti-Semitic nature of Islam, or at least a radical form of Islam. The answer to the previous question, namely to the Minister for the Interior, was about Molenbeek. It can't be a coincidence that the call was made by the imam of Molenbeek's largest mosque, where more than 3 000 Muslims, including many radicalized Muslim youths, travel every week. Their names are well known to you, as Minister of Justice. The little jihad in the streets of Molenbeek on New Year's Eve was a direct consequence of what such people preach. You know that very well. I wonder what you will do, Minister. You know the photo, which was distributed through the social media, Minister. In the photo you humbly bend your head for the imam you met in 2016. You then bowed down as a dhimmi almost, respectful of the involved anti-Zionist and violent jihadim, for that hate preacher. I hope you're not making a deep bow today, but you're making a fist against people like that. I hope you will make it clear that he can no longer function here as chairman of the League of Imams, that he cannot remain imam, and that he is best expelled. I hope that you will invoke your right of positive insertion as Minister of Justice to prosecute the man to expel him from our country as it is possible, and to close the Al-Khalilmoskee in Molenbeek once and for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u63	Mr Dewinter, Mr Carcaci, the Youtube film dates back to 2009 and is now removed from the platform. The statements are, of course, totally unacceptable and reprehensible. Therefore, the Prosecutor's Office authorizes me to inform you that it has become aware of the facts concerned and that it is in the process of examining them in order to determine whether criminal proceedings are necessary. The issue of prescription will obviously have to be taken into account in this investigation. Mr. Toujgani is an imam of the Al-Khalil Mosque in Molenbeek. This mosque is not recognized by the federal authorities or by the regional authorities. And as far as I know, the imam and mosque in question do not benefit from federal or regional subsidies and, in any case, not from the federal level. He is also the founder and president of the association Ligue des Imams de Belgique. Although the name of this ASBL gives the impression that it is very important, it has no concrete ascendancy on imams in Belgium. It is not linked to the Muslim Executive, but it is true that Mr. Toujgani is a member of the Council of theologians, an organ linked to the Belgian Muslim Executive. I will therefore question the President of the Executive and ask him for an explanation of Mr Toujgani's statements in 2009. As regards the status of hate minister, for which statements such as those made by Mr Toujgani could be considered, the OCAD does not register him as a hate propagandaist in the common database because, according to our services, he would have left his Salafist discourse years ago and would now follow the line of Moroccan malicious law school. Many interviews and articles from 2012 indicate, according to my services, that he condemned the riots in Molenbeek and called for calm and respect for the other. He would also have distanced himself from the armed jihad and called on young people not to respond to the lure of IS. So my services say that his discourse at the moment would no longer be the same as in 2009. However, that does not prevent me from having that re-examined. Mr Dewinter, you're asking questions about a photo at a meal. On the social media you are eagerly using that photo, which contributes to my good name and reputation, for which I would like to thank you very much. At that fortar meal I was asked at the last moment to represent the king, as the king himself could not be present. About 20 imams wanted to greet me there. The man in question is very thin and small in form and I have the habit of greeting people with respect. I certainly did not intend to take any kind of bow, quite the contrary. I would have done so with any person of any religion or of any liberal belief in that position.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u64	Minister, I am not reassured by your answer. He'd be part of a mosque that wouldn't be recognized. He himself would not be recognized as a member of a cult. That gives rise to my concern. Minister, you have just explained to us the problem of this photo that is circulating on social media. I'll take note of that. But I invite you, together with your colleague from the Interior, to take all measures to restore confidence in our people in security and public order. That, Minister, is in great need of our people. Insecurity is only growing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u65	Minister, I take note of the fact that the public prosecutor is conducting an investigation. I was hoping you'd be a little more assertive and use your own positive right of insertion to get an investigation. An investigation is being carried out into the role of the person concerned and you will see to what extent the person concerned still adheres to the radical discourse he has spread in the past. However, may I remind you of a classic strategy in Islam called takiyya? This strategy means that we will eventually be able to adapt to the circumstances. Islam allows that. One can express oneself as a radical or a salafist, but when it gets too hot, one can assume a more moderate discourse, in order to ultimately maintain his dominant position and deceive public opinion and certainly us, naive Westerners. Takiyya is a well-known strategy. Our security services have to take that into account. We must not content ourselves with a few declarations of intent from the person concerned. Finally, as regards your bow, Minister, I cannot imagine that you would do the same with regard to my person.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u66	You're much bigger.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u67	I'm too big for that? That'll be it. If someone, for example Dries Van Langenhove, made statements like that man did and called for the burning, destruction or blotting of Jews, then the barn would be too small. Additional broadcasts of public service broadcasting would be required to sue those statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u68	You have to finish, Mr Dewinter. You're already double your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u69	When the imam of the largest mosque in this country makes such statements, it disappears under the carpet and hardly any attention is paid to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u70	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days there has been a general public outrage over a rapper who condones a teenage pimp. Justice fails when it comes to prosecuting teenage pimps. Officially it would be sixty victims, but the actual number of vulnerable girls forced into prostitution is much higher. Where does it go wrong? There are several reasons. Firstly, our Criminal Code is not at all clear about the punishment of teenage pimps. On the one hand, there can be prosecution for trafficking in human beings and, on the other hand, for juvenile prostitution. If the judge chooses a conviction based on juvenile prostitution, the pimp gets off better. Secondly, our current Criminal Code is not adapted to the latest digital methods. It hasn't been adapted to prosecute teenage pimps when they use those methods. Thirdly, there is a lack of any form, any form, of a coordinated approach between youth aid, centres for trafficking in human beings, justice and police. Finally, the supervision of the victims of teen prostitution is completely inadequate. Today, this guidance ends up on the shoulders of volunteers. This cannot be the intention, Minister. Minister, if your answer is that we are in the middle of business, then I repeat immediately that the vulnerable girls in the claws of criminal pimps are no use at all. My only question, Minister, is what will you do in the short term, together with the Justice Commission, to stop such abuse of minors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u71	Thank you, Mrs Lambrecht, for predicting my answer, namely that we are in current business. So I am running faster than ever and I hope that together in the Committee on Justice we will be able to fight this phenomenon even better than in the past. First of all, I should like to say that I am very concerned about the fate of these girls. A number of comments from you also relate to the Flemish level. Youth welfare and youth welfare are the responsibility of my colleague, Minister Vandeurzen. Contrary to what you have said, we have already taken various actions together in this area. The file is a priority in the National Security Plan. It is also a priority in the Integrated Security Framework Paper. It is not entirely true that in the current Criminal Code the crime in question is not properly sanctioned. Youth and minors are criminally aggravating circumstances in trafficking in human beings. The sentences go from five to fifteen years. You will now point out that I am coming up with the current cases, but in the new Criminal Code, which I hope to submit to the Justice Commission, minors up to 14 years of age will be an even more serious criminal offence. The important thing for me to give is this. I am sometimes somewhat disappointed, because such a film, however interesting it is to fill a Sunday and bring a number of things into the media, ultimately gives a totally wrong picture of the facts. The young man in question, who has shown an incredibly reprehensible behavior, has been in prison for two and a half years. I hear Parliaments with great aisance claiming that he hasn't been in prison. Well, he served two and a half years of the prescribed six years. He's had an anklet for a year now. Every time he's walked next to the line, he's been called in again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u72	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u73	Mr. Bracke, I'll stop. I note, however, that Members who speak freely do not even listen now. Having said that, I would like to point out that there are two letters which clearly aim at interdisciplinarity and multidisciplinaryity of the public prosecutor in this area. Together with my colleague, Minister Vandeurzen, in November 2018, I asked the federal parquet to draw the issue together with the Antwerp parquet. So do not blame us for doing nothing in this area. Also, don't publicly explain that there is impunity. That is not true. This wasn't about a recidivist. It was the first time. He served two and a half years of his six years and was deprived of his freedom by an anklet for one year. For the slightest mistake he's gonna make, he's gonna go back to prison. So don't be too populist about the file. It's just a little too easy to do that. The fact that someone has been deprived of his freedom for a first sentence is historically long.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u74	Minister, your disappointment is certainly mine too. If you dare to proclaim here that you are proud that two and a half years is historic for serious criminals who are minors...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u75	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u76	Yes, I call that serious criminals, and many in society with me. It's only your daughter who's being abused by teenage pimps...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u77	Let Mrs Lambrecht speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u78	I'm getting very upset that serious criminals only serve a sentence of two and a half years. There may be anything on paper. Your disappointment is certainly mine. I wouldn't let him leave prison a day earlier, and six years is still far too short, because those underage girls were sentenced to life imprisonment and couldn't have recovered after two and a half years. A year ago, I questioned you about this in the Justice Commission. So there is no populism, because there is now much to do about a particular rapper. Now you mention the argument of current cases and you refer to the Flemish level, but I really do not think that is possible. It's about justice, whether you want it or not, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u79	I did not say that, Mrs Lambrecht.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u80	An unsub who has committed such acts and is still at large is the responsibility of the Justice Department. However, don't get me wrong: you have our support for taking such a brutal form of crime, because I and many with me do not feel at home in a society where such things can occur and in 2019 are covered and tolerated with the cloak of love.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u81	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u82	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ine Somers, Dirk Janssens, Nathalie Muylle, Damien Thiéry, Valerie Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u83	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u84	Mr President, I refer to the written report. I will speak later on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my best wishes for 2019 and good health. We have worked well in the Committee on Health over the last few weeks and the result is before us today. This legislative proposal concerns a number of technical adjustments which do require some clarification. In recent years, a significant financial injection was made into urgent medical care, in particular EUR 12 million in 2016 and EUR 35 million in 2018. Minister De Block simultaneously started the reform of the financing of urgent medical assistance. This reform was necessary because no major changes had been made since the 1964 Act and the sector had become structurally underfunded. This bill will bring into force a new financing system. There are two important ingredients. Firstly, each patient receives a uniform, transparent and readable invoice with a flat-rate amount of EUR 60 per journey. The uniform rate means that the distance from the ride of an ambulance car no longer affects the cost to the patient. Today, on average, the patient pays 65 euros. If the ambulance does long journeys, the invoice for the patient can be very high. Expensive invoices for ambulance drivers are therefore a thing of the past with the new regulations. Secondly, the ambulance services are receiving more solid and correct funding, which should lead to the existence of a viable system of emergency medical care throughout the territory. The new financing model will refine the current flat-rate model and consist of a model consisting of two allowances. The first is a permanence allowance based on a point system, the purpose of which is to grant staff costs. The second concerns an activation allowance designed to compensate for journeys without transport and to provide for a geographical correction for interventions in rural areas. I am going to leave it at that, Mr President, because I understand that other fellow applicants will also speak. It must be clear that this is a long-awaited text that serves the interests of all patients. I therefore believe that it is a very good legislative proposal. I am therefore firmly asking for the support of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u86	Mr President, I shall make a brief statement from my bench. I have already had the opportunity to speak at length in the Committee on Health in this respect. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, being taken urgently by ambulance to the hospital can happen to everyone and at any time with a cost that is often extremely high for the person who has received the care and, despite the intervention of the health insurance, especially since, so far, every citizen was obviously not accommodated in the same house, depending on whether he is more or less far from the place of departure of the ambulance and the hospital to be reached. Thus, the amounts of the interventions varied greatly from one patient to another with sometimes mirbolic bills to the key and the stupor in the patient's head who was finally claimed several hundred euros simply for being transported to the hospital, which is still not a trip for pleasure. You know, Madam Minister, that the Socialist Group has long advocated for a review of the system and funding of urgent medical aid as a whole, in order to reduce the costs for patients but also to allow adequate funding for areas and ambulance services. Your government, then majority and not resigned, had committed itself to it. It took a while. The reform has been announced. Information was provided through the press. It is always nice for a parliamentarian to discover the reforms that he should vote in the newspaper! A principle of solidarity through which each patient should pay the same amount, regardless of the distance travelled, has been put on the table. It is the very purpose of the text that is submitted to us. Some elements such as the proposed package have evolved. We have talked about 45 euros, and then 60 euros today, without Parliament being involved in this important work until then. And then, all of a sudden, last December, the urgency is being asked – we are often faced with these urgent requests – to examine the text that is before us. It is a text which simply eliminates the intervention of health insurance for urgent ambulance transport and which simply removes these transports by ambulance from health benefits. That is something that I have already spoken about in committee and that is a problem for me. In view of the urgency, according to the former majority, it was necessary to vote quickly because the reform was due to enter into force on 1 January. When it comes to implementing legislation on 1 January in December, we can actually consider that we are in an emergency or that we are doing our work a little late! You asked us to do so, even though we had not received any assurance at that time as to the effective implementation of the reform. In addition, you could not tell us clearly what the implementation orders were, although the consequences could prove to be significant and damaging to the patient in terms of cost, since he could not have benefited from the package and would have been deprived of the reimbursement. Minister, where are we? It is my responsibility that the decrees of execution have been published. That's good news. However, have all emergency areas and relief services been adequately informed of the new billing conditions and funding criteria? Unfortunately, as a result of the contacts that have been made, this does not seem to be the case everywhere. Furthermore, are we assured that all will be adequately funded – this is the fundamental question – without any expense transfer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u87	I feel like my speech is passionate about cdH... I can't hear myself talking anymore. If you wish, there is a room at the bottom where you could hold a group meeting. I was therefore saying that we should consider whether we can be assured that all services will be financed properly, without any transfer of expenses to the municipalities. In this regard, the replies provided in the Committee were not sufficiently precise. Undoubtedly, with this reform, a lot of patients will pay less, while others will pay a little more. In any case, I remain convinced that this lump sum amount of EUR 60, which will no longer be reimbursed, remains too high for many of our citizens. It is therefore regrettable that the proposal before us today now completely closes the door to any reimbursement for urgent ambulance transport patients. We also deplore the fact that this text permanently removes ambulance transport from the list of health benefits. They will therefore no longer be taken into account in the maximum amount to be charged, which makes it possible to limit the health care expenses of patients when their medical expenses reach a certain amount during the year. Mr President, Madam Minister, I repeat, my group fully supports the introduction of a system of flat-rate funding in which every citizen will pay the same amount when he is urgently taken over by an ambulance. However, because of the still unanswered questions about the reform itself – which we have been waiting for four years – and given the changes made by the proposal itself, my group will abstain – as was the case in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u88	Minister, the subject is important, even if it is an extremely technical provision. It underpins a reform that is in the patient's interest and that is enshrined in the government agreement. The budget for emergency medical assistance has increased by almost three points. By this I mean that it increased from 25 million to 73 million between 2014 and 2019. As you will understand, the objective of the current reform is to improve the urgent transport of patients following the simple call for 112. As has been said, from 1 January, a package of 60 euros will apply to everyone. It doesn't matter where the ambulance comes from to pick up the patient, and how many kilometres she'll have to travel to get him to the hospital. This is obviously extremely important, especially in rural areas where it was well known that a major problem existed, and that the sums to be paid out for some patients exceeded several hundred euros. Rural areas and peripheral areas around large cities are directly affected and upgraded by this EUR 60 lump sum, regardless of where the ambulance will come from. We gave another example. Two people living on the same street sometimes had to pay substantially different amounts simply because the ambulance came from a different region. The system here is uniform, equivalent for all patients. It's obviously fairer for the patient. The message that I am sending to you, Madam Minister, and that I am sending to all those who will one day be affected by a call to 112 in the event of an emergency, is the following. Once again, we understood the problem facing a number of patients. These patients remain at the centre of the debate, as they have always been since the beginning of this legislature. They will all be handed over to the same level and will be able to enjoy exactly the same services at low prices, since, all averages, the price of 60 euros remains far below the vast majority of the amounts disbursed previously. We will, of course, support this wholehearted bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your comments. I have only received questions from Mr Frédéric. The reform was developed by the Public Health Office in consultation with the National Council for Urgent Medical Assistance, supplemented by representatives of the insurance institutions. In fact, insurance institutions are given the invoice information, so that they have the necessary tools for checking. The years 2019, 2020 and 2021 are a transitional period. During that period, services that would receive less funding as a result of the new financing system will receive compensation. Such compensation shall be calculated at the end of the year. It must allow the services to adapt to the new funding rules. A new administration system AMBUREG was introduced in early 2019. Its data can serve as a basis for further refinement and improvement of the funding system and support for programming policies. Already in 2018, all services received a higher permanence grant than in 2017, regardless of their activity and their organisational model. This means that some services received more in 2018 than they would receive in the final financing model. That also allows them to create a buffer. For this purpose, the EUR 35 million allocated to me was used. In the years before, there was an injection of EUR 12 million for the permanent budget. In general, therefore, the budget was tripled. You also asked what progress has been made with the royal decrees. You're asking me if the royal arrests were taken. They were, because they did not require the adoption of a new law. They are in fact taken under the Emergency Medical Aid Act of 1964. Two royal decrees were issued on 21 December, one on invoicing and the other on subsidies; as well as two ministerial decrees at the end of the year, one for permanent subsidies and the other for subsidies for service activities. Two IPS public health newsletters, one in August and the other in December, were communicated to all departments. You say they didn't all see them, but I still checked today that they were all contacted by mail. Citizens have been informed by their mutuality. Brochures and posters are available in the waiting rooms of general practitioners. You say that the maximum amount to be billed is not taken into account. This has never been the case. Before, even if there was a 50% intervention by INAMI, this was not part of the maximum amount to be billed. We haven't changed anything. I agree with you that it will be necessary in the future to take targeted measures for certain vulnerable groups. This can still be done. With the recording data, we can refine the measurements. I agree with you that in some cases the elderly do not need an ambulance in an emergency. I'm open to that. For most people, emergency medical assistance is occasional. But some people need it more. Yeah, at INAMI, it's easier now. The amount provided by the Public Health Service has been transferred to the Public Health Service. That is how we are really going to reform for the benefit of the citizens who need urgent medical assistance. We've been talking about it for a long time. You said there were articles in the press. I can tell you that in most cases it was information that was not from us, whether it was the amounts or situations described as the fact that the patient should pay the 60 euros or the fact that we did not inject money and save money. That information was false. We never communicated because we were still negotiating with the ambulance services and the Public Health IPS. I really plead for everything we do here because everything else is already under way. All the provisions laying down that the RIZIV meets the needs of ambulance transport are removed from the co-ordinated law on compulsory insurance with the present legislative proposal. The necessary budgets have already been transferred to the Public Health Office. I would welcome it if the members of the Chamber were to put their shoulders on it, because I think it is a very good thing for all citizens who urgently need an ambulance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u91	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3402/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3402/3) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u92	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u93	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 November 2018, a second appeal to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 12 November 2018 for the mandates of French-speaking magistrate of the seat of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 8 November 2018, a second call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 12 November 2018 for the terms of office of magistrate of the French-speaking headquarters of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Effective members - Ms Béatrice Chapaux, Counsellor at the Brussels Appeals Court - Mr Jean Louis Evrard, Honorary Chairman of the Commercial Courts of Aarlen and Neufchâteau - Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy, Honorary Chairman of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg - Mr Pierre Jacobs, President of the Chamber at the Bergen Court of Appeal and Honorary Chairman of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg - Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, investigating judge at the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels - Mr Jules Malaise, Honorary Justice of the Second Canton of Charleroi - Mrs Martine Michel, investigating judge at the court of first instance Hainaut - Mr Michel Pieraert, judge at the Hainaut Police Court - Ms Joelle Vandeput, Vice-President of the Court of First Instance Walloon Brabant Actual members - Ms Béatrice Chapaux, Counsellor at the Brussels Court of Appeal - Mr. Jean Louis Evrard, Honorary President of the Commercial Courts of Arlon and Neufchâteau - Mr. Jean-Pierre Gaudy, Honorary President of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg - Mr. Pierre Jacobs, President of the Chamber of the Mons Court of Appeal and Honorary President of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg - Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, investigating judge at the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels - Mr. Jules Malaise, honorary justice of the peace of the 2nd canton of Charleroi - Ms. Martine Michel, investigating judge at the Hainaut Court of First Instance - Mr. Michel Pieraert, judge at the Hainaut Police Court - Ms. Joelle Vandeput, Honorary Vice-President of the Walloon Brabant Court of First Instance Also candidate member of the Bureau - Mr Jean Louis Evrard, Honorary Chairman of the Labour Courts of Aarlen and Neufchâteau - Mr Pierre Jacobs, President of the Chamber at the Bergen Court of Appeal and Honorary Chairman of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg Also a candidate as a member of the Bureau - Mr. Jean Louis Evrard, Honorary President of the Commercial Courts of Arlon and Neufchâteau - Mr. Pierre Jacobs, President of the Chamber of the Mons Court of Appeal and Honorary President of the Labour Courts of the Province of Luxembourg Deputy Member - Ms Béatrice Chapaux, Counsellor at the Brussels Appeals Court - Mr Jules Malaise, Honorary Justice of the Second Canton of Charleroi. Substitute - Ms Béatrice Chapaux, Counsellor at the Brussels Court of Appeal - Mr. Jules Malaise, honorary justice of the peace of the 2nd canton of Charleroi. By e-mail of 28 December 2018, Ms Marie Jadoul (F), who applied for the first call in the Belgian Official Journal, withdrew her candidacy. By e-mail of 28 December 2018, Marie Jadoul (F), who had applied for the first call in the Belgian Moniteur, withdrew her application. By letter dated 8 January 2019, Marc Tysebaert (N), who applied for the first call in the Belgian Official Journal, withdrew his candidacy. By letter of 8 January 2019, Mr Marc Tysebaert (N), who had applied for the first call in the Belgian Moniteur, withdrew his application. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Justice Commission. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2018, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The Justice Committee will proceed to the hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u94	The Open Vld Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne to replace Mrs Sabien Lahaye-Battheu as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Open Vld Group has sent me the candidacy of Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne to replace Ms Sabien Lahaye-Battheu as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote, in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and I declare Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne elected as an alternate member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u95	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection - and with the exception of proposal No. I consider that 3398/1 by Mrs Smeyers, who is postponing her request for consideration, to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals are sent to the relevant committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 3398/1 by Mrs Smeyers, which calls for the postponement of the request to take account of her proposal, I shall consider it to be accepted and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that you consider the following proposals: - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Karine Lalieux cs) on security of electricity supply and support for the energy transition, No. 3445/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u96	- the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval cs) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 on the tax reduction for pensions and sickness and invalidity benefits, No. 3446/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u97	I also propose that you take into account the following proposals: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Karine Lalieux et al.) to guarantee security of electricity supply and promote the energy transition, No 3445/1;
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u98	- the proposal for a law (Mr David Clarinval et al.) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to tax reduction for pensions and insurance benefits in the event of sickness and disability, No. 3446/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u99	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u100	Mr President, we have introduced the motion for a resolution No 3445/1 because the resignation of the Michel I government has brought to light the delays that Minister Marghem has taken to complete the energy transition and to allow the exit of nuclear power. Routine business should not be used as an excuse for those wishing to extend nuclear power plants beyond 2025. That is why we are asking Parliament to take matters back into its own hands through three bills that had been drafted by the minister, but that should be debated here and amended. They concern support for gas power plants, the need for new wind farms in the North Sea and, finally, the need to ensure that Engie-Electrabel cannot escape its responsibility for financing the decommissioning of nuclear power plants. That is why I call for the urgency of the House taking over the energy transition. There is an urgent need, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u101	I propose that we speak on this question in the usual way. The urgency is rejected when sitting and getting up. The emergency is rejected by sitting and lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 95 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3402/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3402/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-10-54-plenair-ip265x.u103	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 17 January 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 17, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 January 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 17, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
