ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Questions Nos 55000816C, 55001094C and 55001996C of Mr Hugues Bayet are transformed into written questions. Mrs. Dedonder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u2	Madam President, Minister, the Court of Auditors' recent statements are not flattering. Indeed, the independent audit body noted many errors in the 2018 accounts. It's not about anodizing errors. The Court of Auditors also states that, for certain headings, many transactions are not or are incorrectly recorded in the accounts. The general picture of the accounts would appear "tangled". The first President of the Court of Auditors, Philippe Roland, states that the collection of €6 billion of VAT has not been recorded as revenue. The same applies to 11 billion euros of unrecoverable VAT which have not been entered in the accounts. Minister, how do you explain these errors in the accounts? What do you intend to do to improve the situation in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u3	Minister, the 176th Book, part III, of the Court of Auditors, which I have here, mentions a problem with the Federal Accountant. The Directorate-General Federal Accountant and Procurement, a part of the FPS Policy and Support, advises and supports customer organisations in the field of accounting and public procurement. That service shall accompany the entire accounting cycle and submit the consolidated accounts of the federal government. He shall also be responsible for drawing up the consolidated accounts of the general administration. From the financial year 2020, the Court of Auditors of Europe will have to issue a certification on the financial statements of the federal state. When presenting his 176th Book, however, the Court of Auditors made a very critical assessment of the quality of the federal accounts. One of the main reasons for the poor quality would be due to the lack of central control by the Federal Accountant. The question is whether a well-founded budget can be drawn up without reliable account figures. The poor quality also has an impact on the measurement of the effects of the savings measures taken by the government in 2018. The Court of Auditors says that it is difficult to judge revenue because there are no reliable figures. The European Commission has also pointed out that this is a problem. Minister, what is your response to the findings of the Court of Auditors and what policy steps have you and your predecessor taken to remedy this? Of course, the Court of Auditors' judgment is not new and does not fall out of the sky. The Court of Auditors also states that the quality of the annual accounts had improved until 2016, but that a deterioration can subsequently be identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u4	Ms.Dedonder, the possibilities of control by the federal accountant were limited by the staff cuts and the very tense timing that we had to respect. The transition to "valued" receipt, on the one hand, and registration on the basis of recognized rights, on the other hand, has further complicated this task. You mention that €6 billion in VAT collection has not been recorded. This error in the tax revenues of the FPS Finances is the result of the transition to registration on the basis of the duties recognized, when the documents received an incorrect impact in the budgetary accounting. They were recorded as an open receivable when they were actually to be considered as amounts collected. This false manoeuvre was corrected as soon as it was found. But the correction of the erroneous documents already registered was not obvious. Let me turn to your second question. A number of experienced people have left the service in recent years. To date, these have not been replaced. Reducing account errors to a personnel problem in the federal accounting service is, however, too easy. Each FPS must verify that its own accounting is being maintained correctly. There are also some points to be improved, which are not in the hands of the federal accountant. This issue is also addressed in the observation book. To your third question, I can tell you that we plan to recruit a team leader and four level 1 people for the "Reporting and Consolidation" team. These recruitments will be carried out in the spring of 2020. However, I must admit that it is not easy to find such profiles on the labour market, given their specificities. This team will be responsible for the preparation and transmission of accounts, as well as support to CFOs in keeping their accounts. Unfortunately, this will not yet have a positive impact for the closing of the 2019 financial year currently in preparation. CWS will need to be made more accountable. They are primarily responsible for the proper recording in the accounts and the interpretation of the results. At the end of the 2019 financial year, the FPS Finance will be invited, more than before, to verify the balance sheet, the profit and loss account, the budget implementation accounts and the refund and allocation fund account. He will also have to check whether there are any irregularities to be corrected. Mr Ravyts, you asked whether a sound budget could be drawn up without reliable accounts. It should be noted that a large part of the comments relate to general accounting rather than budgetary accounting. In this way, an incomplete or incorrect inventory of fixed assets does not affect the layout or the implementation of the budget. The final transactions in the general accounts also have no budgetary impact. A large number of other sources of information are available for the preparation of the budget. A budget implementation account is being drawn up too late to serve as the only basis for drawing up the next year's budget. The incorrect collections in FPS Finance's tax revenue, which are the result of the transfer to the set duty-based accounting, where documents had a wrong impact on budgetary accounting, were recorded as outstanding claims, whereas they should actually be included as collected amounts. It was a big parenthesis. For this reason, it has no impact on the budget layout. The FOD BOSA is in close contact with the FOD Finance when drawing up the state funds budget, so that correct collection figures can be taken into account. You also mention that it is difficult for the Court of Auditors to assess revenue because there are no reliable figures. In this respect, it should be made clear that the incorrect entries in the accounts were clearly identified. The Court of Auditors took this into account in its conclusion. You are also asking about the policy steps that my predecessor and I have already taken to remedy. I can inform you that the decision was taken to strengthen the report team of the DG Federal Accountant through new recruitments to be carried out in spring 2020. The results will only be visible from the closure of the 2020 accounts. Cooperation with the FPS Finance will also be intensified at this year's closure to allow greater control of the result of the numerically by far most important department. The Federal Accountant will continue to work to address the shortcomings mentioned by the Court of Auditors in the future. For example, a logistics part was recently added to FEDCOM for the stock management of the federal police. With regard to the certification of the federal state's annual accounts from 2020, I report that the FaaS project is being worked on at the Buildings Regie. It is an ERP package which will also allow for a proper evaluation of the value of the land and buildings held by the State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that in addition to these recruitments, you spoke of a CPS accountability. We will check this next year, hoping it will work better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, which partly overlapped with your answer to my colleague's question. At least the Federal Accountant needs to be strengthened. That's what's gonna happen. This service should play a more active role in increasing the quality of services. The strategic staff planning in the federal government will also have to be introduced into more FPS. We will continue to follow the issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u7	Minister, at last week's meeting of the Committee on Finance and Budget, I spoke to you about this in connection with my amendment to the NAVAP. You replied that the subsidies to support the end-of-life regime would be fine, but since the Finance Act does not provide for any subsidy to support the end-of-life regime, I have a number of reservations. I'd like to take a constructive look at it. The current scheme provides for a quarterly treatment of subsidies. They shall be paid after verification of the invoices submitted by the zones. A possible problem here is pre-financing, especially since many local authorities also have to pay the pension response contributions. For federal police, there is a high real risk of job vacancies being tempered by the Treasury Inspectorate through mobility or external recruitment. There is a monitoring of staff and when mobility is opened up to the police, the Finance Inspectorate also looks at the funding capacity for the whole year. When it finds, at the beginning of the year, that there is no commitment to the grants and payment of the NAVAP scheme, it can, as it has done in other cases in the past, reduce or even block mobility, because the funding of the NAVAP is not arranged until the end of the year. My only concern is that local and federal police can maintain their capacity. I do not want to table my amendment tomorrow at all costs. You say that you will work in a different way and that it will not be necessary immediately from 1 January 2020. I don't care. We should not work with an amendment. If you do not want to amend the budget law, that is not a problem for me, but I would suggest that you, as the supervisory authority of the Treasury Inspectorate, give a clear political signal that the government is committed to funding the NAVAP for the year 2020, so that the Finance Inspectorate has no arguments to hypothesize the mobility cycles that the police are opening up and which are important to maintain capacity. That concern or uncertainty doesn't just live with the police. I just heard that the Walloon Government is putting this item on the agenda of next week's Consultation Committee, because of concerns about the continuation of funding for the NAVAP scheme for 2020. I have no problem with the amendment not being tabled, but I would like to see a commitment from the government or from you, so that at the beginning of next year there will be no blocking at the level of the Treasury Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u8	Mr Donné, you had asked me three questions, but now you have added a new question; a constructive one, although I agree. I will try to answer both the three questions tabled and the new question. The aim is to work on the same basis, in particular the Law of 6 June 2016 on the financing of end-of-life measures for local police staff. As for your second question, the Federal Pension Service estimates the savings of the pension fund for 2020 at EUR 46 million. In doing so, account will be taken of the contribution of 7% which will still be charged on the betting of the agents. This contribution is estimated at EUR 7 million in revenue for the pension fund. As for your third question, for 2019 we paid EUR 36 million in July and November. I can provide you with the table if you like. For 2018 we paid 11 million euros in September, 14 million euros in November and 12 million euros in December. In 2019 we paid faster than in 2018. In 2017, we paid 7 million euros in July, 18,000 euros in September, 10 million euros in November and 18 million euros in December. We follow the payment rhythm of previous years. The next government will have to find a structural solution for the coming years, but in 2019 we will have made payments faster than before. Your additional question is certainly relevant. As soon as the bill is submitted to the Chamber, I will instruct the Finance Inspector to credit the Minister of the Interior so that the mobility of police officers will not be blocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It would indeed be nice to have the tables showing the rate of payment in recent years. It is good to hear that it went faster in 2019 than in 2018. The reason for my somewhat unusual question is that I want to avoid having to table an amendment in plenary tomorrow. What you're saying now, I think it's enough. The most important point is that the Finance Inspectorate cannot argue that in the other files that have capacity to create a block because there would be no formal technical basis for the NAVAP scheme as yet on 1 January. I'm reassured. If there is a commitment, this will also be communicated to the Inspection and the problem will be resolved in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic070x.u10	I understand that and thank you for your constructive attitude.
