ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u1	Mr Minister, terrified of an outbreak of swine fever in Flanders, the Farmers' Federation demands that a number of wild boars be reduced from areas with pig farms and that the global wild boar stock be reduced. "The management measures taken to date are absolutely insufficient," says Wouter Wytynck of the Boerenbond in the magazine Boer & Tuinder. Cadavers of wild boar infected with African swine fever were discovered in the province of Luxembourg a year ago. This immediately had serious consequences for the pig sector in our country. Prices baseed and 22 export destinations, including China, closed their borders for Belgian pork. More than 800 wild boars have been found to be positive in the infected zone, but the professional sector has so far remained fortunately out of control. At the beginning of this year we noted a positive change in the market, because China was also very badly affected by swine fever and had to import pigmeat. The increased demand for pork increased prices in the EU. However, because of the problem of swine fever, prices in our country are lower than in our neighbouring countries. The expansion of sales potential in China is therefore certainly welcome in order to bring prices to an acceptable level. However, another case of swine fever was found in Arlen on 21 October. It has also recently been found that more and more wild boars have antibodies against African swine fever. Those animals are resistant to the disease, but they can still spread it. The economic damage caused by swine fever is now estimated at half a billion euros. What measures have already been taken to prevent swine fever in our pig farms? Are you prepared to provide for additional measures to enable Belgium to be declared free of swine fever as soon as possible? Is there any up-to-date information available on the location of swine fever infections in the wild boar population? Are there any support measures for any affected companies? If so, which one? Will the Belgian Export Task Force make every effort to reach an agreement with China so that the country allows pork from uncontaminated zones? In the meantime, I have seen the message that there is no agreement after the trade mission. Was the subject discussed during the princely trade mission to China?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u2	Mr Minister, since I submitted my question on 7 October, some elements of it may already be obsolete. In any case, on that date, African swine fever was still seriously hampering exports of pigmeat. According to the Federation of Belgian Meat, African swine fever will cost the sector between EUR 447 million and EUR 584 million. However, this estimate assumes that there will be no new cases and that exports to the lost countries can resume in August 2020. The swine fever will cost the entire sector at least half a billion euros. That's a hell of a lot. Despite the efforts made, 21 export markets were still closed at the time of my request. It is mainly the Asian countries that have closed their borders to Belgian pork. However, the disease was only detected in boars and due to the many efforts made there was no transfer to our pigs either. Unfortunately, the Belgian pig farmers are indeed the victims of the closure of these export markets. Which export markets are now open and which are still closed? What effect does the imposition of the embargo by third countries have on exports of Belgian pork? How much was exported before the African swine fever and how many after? Which countries import most pork? What measures will you take to reassure third countries and convince them that Belgian pigmeat is high quality, which will allow exports? What measures will you take to increase the number of exporting countries for Belgian pigmeat? What steps will you take specifically to the 21 exporting countries that continue to close their borders on Belgian pork? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u3	Mrs. Jadin is apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u4	Mr Minister, after the outbreak of African swine fever in southern Wallonia, the borders of many Asian countries closed for the meat of Belgian pigs. However, Belgium has maintained an AVP-free status for domestic pigs. Meanwhile, India and Vietnam have also lifted their embargo on Belgian pork. Singapore has also recently decided to do so. The challenge remains to open the other markets, in particular those of South Korea and China. In the meantime, these countries also have swine fever on their territory. In South Korea, more than 150,000 pigs have already been slaughtered. Nevertheless, the country has a remarkable policy. The Korean authorities ask other countries to continue to accept their pigmeat from non-infected regions, but refuse to apply the same principle to Belgian pigmeat. This regional thinking is exactly what the Belgian slaughterhouses, pig farms and meat processing industry are calling for us to export our pork back to the Asian markets. The presence of African swine fever on large markets such as China puts the price of pork in the elevator and creates export opportunities. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what quantitative and budgetary impact has the outbreak of African swine fever had on the export and turnover of our pig sector? Secondly, what efforts have been made from the sector and the BFSA to reopen the Asian markets for meat from our domesticated pigs? Thirdly, are there any countries where negotiations are so advanced that there is hope of reopening? Fourthly, have you already received a reply to your letter to your South Korean colleague? You asked for more information on the ambiguous attitude of the country, which expects other partners to distinguish between regions with and without African swine fever, while refusing to make that distinction with our country itself. Fifth, as far as the princely trade mission to China is concerned, what preparations were made by the BFSA to convince the Chinese to reopen the market for Belgian pork? Are the Chinese open to distinguishing between regions with and without African swine fever?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I should like to apologise if I repeat myself as a fourth in line, but I would like to ask my question as it was tabled. The swine fever has kept a firm hold, not only in the livestock of our farmers, but also in our trade relations. China, for example, still maintains its import ban on Belgian pork, which also affects even companies that were not in the risk area. This makes them needlessly lose. In reply to questions from my party colleague Rita Gantois during the past legislature, you have already replied that you would apply some sort of regionalisation in the talks with countries with an import ban and will assure them that the pork does not come from the affected region. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, what is the BFSA's progress in tackling swine fever? Has there been a decrease or increase in the problem since the outbreak in 2018? Secondly, how many companies have been hit by a foreign ban on imports of pigmeat? Can you provide us with a list of countries that apply a ban, both for 2018 and for 2019, and can you divide the companies by region? Thirdly, which countries have been able to actively convince the BFSA to lift the ban since the outbreak and which countries have lifted their import ban on their own initiative? Fourthly, how does the insurance by the BFSA work out in concrete terms? On what legal basis is it based? Finally, according to current legislation, is it possible to grant genuine export certificates on the basis of regional licences, so that the regions which are not affected by an epidemic in animals can export? Why would that be possible or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u6	Mr President, since the discovery of the first outbreak of African swine fever (AVP), the BFSA has worked intensively with all the relevant authorities and actors, the Region, the Commission, the sector, to limit the disease to the current infected area. The infected zone itself did not need to be expanded since March 2019. In addition, AVP did not show up in the Belgian pig farms. The sanitary fund quickly reimbursed the pig farmers in the infected zone. In addition, the Walloon Region has provided compensation for the sanitary vacancy imposed on pig farms. The 7190 commercial Belgian pig farms were affected by the embargo: 5.548 in the Flemish Region, 1.636 in the Walloon Region and 6 in the Brussels Capital Region. Before the disease appeared, around 7,500 tonnes of pig meat were exported per month to third countries outside the EU. The volume exported outside the EU has now fallen by 50%. By August 2020, this represents a total expected loss of 447 to 584 million since the start of the crisis. The following countries apply an embargo on pigmeat from Belgium: Taiwan, South Korea, South Africa, Serbia, China, Belarus, Australia, Japan, Philippines, Mexico, Uruguay, Malaysia, Ukraine, Colombia, New Caledonia, Barbados, Kazakhstan, the Dominican Republic, Canada, Sri Lanka and Seychelles. The following countries apply a partial embargo on the province of Luxembourg or the zonings: Vietnam, Singapore, India, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. The BFSA remains in contact with those countries that have not yet lifted the AVP embargo. Singapore has lifted the embargo on pork thanks to the BFSA. India and Vietnam have voluntarily lifted an import ban on the whole of Belgium, to limit it to the province of Luxembourg. In July 2019, a specific task force was established within the Strategic Committee as part of the AVP to stimulate the export of Belgian pork and pig by-products to China. The recent appointment of a Belgian sanitary attaché to the BFSA in Beijing will also contribute to this. The BFSA has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the Belgian pig herd is declared free of AVP. This status was confirmed by the introduction of a statement approved by the OIE and published on the OIE website. On 8 November, I asked for a meeting with the Chinese ambassador to discuss the export of Belgian pork to China. I made sure that Minister of Security and Home Affairs Pieter De Crem was involved in this. On my initiative, the BFSA has submitted a new proposal to the Chinese authorities to obtain soon the reopening of the Chinese market for the export of Belgian pork. This proposal meets the health requirements of Beijing and at the same time preserves the interests of Belgian producers. Consultations have been held with the region and with the agricultural federations. However, China rejected this proposal because of the presence of swine fever in Belgium. I will ask again for a meeting to try to obtain a favourable result on this dossier. I received a question from China during the visit of the Belgian delegation, but I think it will be very difficult to reach a decision with China. Finally, as far as the embargo is concerned, these are 21 countries, but 20 without Russia. I'll get you the list. A judicial inquiry into the origin of African swine fever is also under way. That is not the work of a minister or the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u7	Minister, I would like to conclude from your reply that you have already done a great deal to get back into the Chinese market. It is, of course, a pity that the Chinese are so stubborn and refuse to allow Belgian pork back on their market. You indicated that there is a concession from the sanitary fund for the companies. It is very positive that the Walloon Region provides compensation for the sanitary clearance. After all, the affected companies can use all the aid, especially now that sales on the foreign markets have fallen by 50%. I look forward to your future actions and the scheduled meeting with a Chinese delegation. I can't wait to see what's gonna come out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Can we also get your answer in writing? I understand that 21 countries have been closed down, but it is not clear to me how many are left at the moment. For Singapore and India, the ban has already been lifted, but it is not quite clear to me how many countries are still effectively closed down. You have set up a task force to combat African swine fever as best you can and to protect our pig farmers. It is a pity that the consultations with the Chinese Ambassador did not produce a good result. I hope that you will not give up your efforts and that you will do everything in your power to get back to China. If we can't get rid of our pork abroad, we might be able to promote it more internally, to encourage domestic consumption. Our pig farmers can use all the support now that they have 50% less exports. After all, that means a huge loss. Eventually they are not affected and our pork is still good quality and tasty. So we can promote it. I therefore hope that the efforts to open up the export markets will continue. African swine fever is still not fully controlled and we must remain alert in order to avoid further outbreaks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u9	Minister, I too would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer, in which you have also provided a lot of interesting figures. I would also like to thank you very much for the efforts you have made. You are not letting go of defending the interests of our pig sector. The agricultural sector can indeed use all the support, not only financially, but also diplomatically. The persistent stubbornness of the Chinese in this discussion remains a pity, but of course you are not responsible for that. I would ask you to keep us informed of your ongoing efforts. I agree with what the previous speaker said. Promotion is a regional competence. So let us appeal to our colleagues in the regions to promote the use of pork in their own countries. That seems important to me to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the efforts you have made so far. I understand that you are taking the matter seriously. I also think it is a good thing that the sanitary attachés have been appointed on behalf of the BFSA. They will also have to make an effort to explain to China how our country works and how it is that, fortunately, swine fever can be limited to boars for the time being, so domestic pigs are not affected at all. It remains a sore place in our system that such a hyperlocal problem can have such a big impact on an entire agricultural branch. Even more strange is the fact that there is still no explanation for the outbreak of swine fever in our country. There are fireplaces in Eastern Europe and Sardinia, but between Eastern Europe and our country is Germany, where there is no swine fever, and Sardinia is an island. So the question of how these infected animals got here has to be answered. In English there is an expression to name an impossible outcome, when pigs fly, but that is, of course, unlikely in reality. That is why I think further research is worth it. The problem of regionalisation of exports, including export measures in this case, is also at the heart of the matter. Why should Flemish exports be punished for a local Walloon problem? The worst thing is that our pig farmers can export to our neighbouring countries at lower prices, where that meat can be processed in other countries and then exported to the more profitable China. As a result, our farmers lack a large proportion of the profits they need to keep their heads above water. If all this is taken into account, a regional division of food safety control seems to be obvious, so that each region can assume its own responsibility and bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u11	Minister, this question dates back to July, so perhaps it has become obsolete. Following 20 years of negotiations, a political agreement was reached on 28 June 2019 between the European Union and Mercosur countries, Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay, on the trade chapter of the Association Agreement. The agreed text will be refined and translated and will then be sent to the European Parliament and the Member States for approval. That may have happened by now. The agreement will ensure that many trade barriers are removed. In 2018, our country just did not export EUR 4 billion in goods such as pharmaceuticals, machinery and motor vehicles to Mercosur countries. In 2018, Belgium imported three billion euros of goods such as vegetable, iron and steel preparations and various chemical products from those countries. The agreement does, however, give rise to great concern among the agricultural organizations in particular. They fear that imports of agricultural products from Mercosur countries will put pressure on the market, even though they are already struggling. The additional pressure on the market will be felt mainly by our poultry farmers, cattle farmers and sugar beet growers. They fear that these sectors will be seriously threatened. The agreement could therefore jeopardise the livelihood of these farmers. Firstly, you and the Prime Minister had a meeting on 11 July with the three major Belgian agricultural organizations united in Agrofront. What is the outcome of this consultation? What specific arrangements were made? Secondly, a negative impact is expected on the beef, chicken and sugar sectors. Has an impact analysis been made to assess the impact of the agreement on the Belgian agricultural sector? If so, what are the conclusions? Or does it still have to be carried out? Thirdly, what initiatives will you, as a competent minister, take to defend the interests of our Belgian farmers at European level? Fourthly, do other European Member States have any reservations about the agreement on agriculture? If so, which Member States can be an ally in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u12	Mrs Dierick, a recent meeting with representatives of the Belgian agricultural sector provided an opportunity to discuss in detail the quotas contained in the Mercosur-EU agreement. The measures on unfair competition and food safety included in the agreement were also addressed. It was agreed that the government would follow the evolution of the file very closely. The Commission's services also follow up on the exhaustive publication of the legal texts. I have always been very clear: I have said that I do not think that the agreement contains sufficient guarantees for the health of consumers today. A EFSA report underlines the risks of pesticide cocktails. I also believe that the agreement does not provide sufficient guarantees for respect for international climate commitments. The same applies to the protection of our family farming. However, that is my personal point of view. It will, of course, be up to the Members of Parliament in the various parliaments to decide on this. It will be up to the next federal government to determine the line it will defend when the treaty will have to be ratified. An impact study is currently under way at the FPS Economy. Its publication was announced before the beginning of 2020. I have taken a series of steps to ensure that the interests of our farmers are defended. For example, on 15 July 2019 I met Commissioner Hogan to discuss the Mercosur agreement. When I took the floor at the European Agriculture Council in June and July 2019, I raised the concerns of Belgian farmers. In addition, on 25 July 2019 I sent a letter to the European Commissioner for Food Safety Vytenis Andriukaitis, to EFSA and to the Ministers for Agriculture of France, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg. In that letter, I reiterated the importance of strict application of European sanitary rules to Mercosur's products. Some Member States, like Belgium, have expressed concern about the impact of this free trade agreement with Mercosur. However, the final positions of these Member States will not be known until the end of 2020, when the Council of the European Union votes on the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the very clear answer and your personal position. I appreciate it when a minister dares to express his personal opinion. We need to stay alert and follow the file closely. An impact analysis is under way and we can expect the results at the beginning of 2020. That is a good opportunity for Parliament to take a good look at this, so that we can form a well-founded opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u14	Minister, from the pigs to the fruit sector, two sectors in crisis, like almost everywhere in the agricultural sector. My question about the problems in the fruit sector has been on the agenda several times. After all, we have had an eventful season with heat waves, a local windstorm and hail. Fruit such as apples and pears was significantly affected by this. Since the harvest has often failed or been sold at very low prices in recent years, there is very little room for the fruit grower to invest and survive. Meanwhile, there is also a threat of a hard Brexit, which could lead to a loss of the British market for our Belgian apples and pears. The Farmers' Union is committed to the EU reviewing its economic sanctions against Russia. After all, the disappearance of the Russian market due to the trade dispute between the EU and Russia makes it very difficult for the sector today, despite the intense search for new markets. I therefore have a number of questions on this subject, Minister. What impact would a hard Brexit have on the Belgian fruit sector? How can we limit these consequences as much as possible? What is your view on economic sanctions against Russia? Will you work with the EU to review sanctions? What new markets are possible for our Belgian fruit sector? In April, you recognised the fruit and cattle sector as sectors in crisis. When is this recognition going to go on? How many companies in the fruit sector have made use of the facilities associated with the recognition? Will there be an evaluation of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u15	Mr Minister, on 11 October, an alarming report was published by the Farmers' Union which shows that not only the prices of apples and pears are far too low, but also the prices of strawberries are under pressure. In the first seven months of 2019, the prices of apples were 51% lower and of pears 43% lower than in the same period of the previous year. The prices of strawberries were 5 % lower. Because of the Russian ban on imports of European fruit, our fruit growers have lost up to 40% of their market from one moment to the next. That loss still makes itself felt in price formation. Despite an intense search for new markets, it remains very difficult in the sector five years later. The European support measures were abolished, while it is difficult to accept that the European Union continues to provide substantial support in Eastern Europe for the further development of fruit production there. This leads to an even greater oversupply with a clear negative impact on price formation. The profitability barometer for the fruit sector is alarming due to Russia's boycott and increasing foreign competition. In recent years, the sector has also been confronted with the effects of exceptional weather conditions. In the spring of 2016, several Limburg fruit communities were hit by heavy winds, with negative consequences for production. The year 2017 was marked by late frost in spring, resulting in drastic decreases in yields. Especially the apples were badly affected. The price formation of the harvest of the extremely dry and warm year 2018 was disastrous for both apples and pears. The combination of all these factors means that the hard fruit sector in Belgium is under enormous pressure. Often fruit growers even have to perform a second job in order to keep their heads above water. That's why I have a few questions. Firstly, will the federal government take additional support measures to deal with the problems facing the fruit sector? If so, what measures will be taken? If not, why will these measures not be implemented? Secondly, Mr President-in-Office, are you prepared, through your contacts at European level, possibly through Charles Michel in his new capacity as President of the European Council, to call for a relaxation of economic sanctions against Russia, which would enable the Russian boycott of Belgian hard fruit to be lifted? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u16	Mrs Dierick, Mr Gilissen, I fully understand the concern of the Belgian fruit sector about its economic situation should a Brexit occur. That is why we have taken a series of measures together with the government. At the European Agriculture Council of 14 May 2019, I asked the European Commission to make additional funds available quickly to the fruit sector in order to support European producers of apples and pears. In case of a hard Brexit there will be a customs duty on imports and border controls. This will make trade more expensive and create additional trade barriers. Border controls also slow down trade and increase the administrative burden, which has an impact on trade in products with limited shelf-life. As far as the fruit sector is concerned, the main impact will be on exports of fresh pears, strawberries and apples to the United Kingdom. That is why I used my meeting with Commissioner Hogan on Monday 15 October 2019 to ask for the Commission to provide the necessary financial support for Belgian farmers, in particular the Belgian fruit sector, which is particularly dependent on the United Kingdom for its exports, in the event of a hard Brexit. If, because of the bad weather conditions, aid for the Belgian fruit sector affected has to be provided in recent years, it will have to be taken by the relevant regional governments. On the Russian embargo in response to Russia's 2014 invasion of Crimea, I repeat that the EU has imposed economic sanctions on trade with Russia. The new European Commission must assess whether or not sanctions should be extended. I also repeat that the BFSA is making important efforts to open up new markets for Belgian exports. For example, the Chinese, Indian, Canadian, Brazilian and Mexican markets are already open to Belgian apples and pears. With the recognition of the sector as a sector in crisis, I have also deferred payment for the contribution of the last three quarters of 2019 to self-employed persons active in the apple and pear-growing sector. This measure currently allows them to obtain deferred payment for the fourth quarter of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I have another question. You say that you have asked for additional financial support at European level should there be a hard Brexit. Has there been any commitment in that, or is that question still pending? I would also like to thank you for your efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your efforts. You have asked for additional resources to be able to take additional Brexit measures. A hard Brexit will have an impact on pears, apples and strawberries. You are obviously doing everything you can to ensure that our fruit sector can survive. The delay in paying the contributions is welcome, but that only shifts the problem, because the contributions have to be paid anyway. It is, of course, commendable that the BFSA is making efforts to tap into new markets and create additional sales potential. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u19	Mr President, I would like to reiterate our request to the Commission. We have already returned to them about the help we have requested. I'm still waiting for an answer. I will, of course, keep you informed of the response received. I do not hide from you that with the change of Commission, we are at a key moment. We have returned regularly to what will soon be the former Commission. If we do not have a response from the outgoing Commission, we will attack the new Commission to get as precise a response as possible. We have also intervened in the European Council many times to defend a sector which, as we know, has been in great difficulty since the establishment of the Russian embargo. I also do not hide from you that, in view of this situation, I have asked the external services of the AFSCA to work on pears and apples as a priority. It's nice to make such decisions. I have also visited producers several times, with whom I have had direct contacts, to see the difficulty of the sector. I have also organized meetings. I therefore fully perceive the tension in the sector and the difficulties that this entails, in addition to economic difficulties, social and human difficulties. It is in this sense that I regularly ask the external services of the AFSCA to account for the results they produce. New markets have indeed been opened. I will continue to ask them to work first and foremost to open markets for our apples and pears for export.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u20	Mr President, Minister, we are going from one product to another and from one country to another. After almost 20 years, South Korea has lifted import restrictions on beef and beef products from some Member States of the European Union. Denmark and the Netherlands are the first to be able to resume exports. The trade restrictions imposed by South Korea since 2001 were a response to the outbreak of mad cow disease. outgoing Commissioner Vytenis Andriukaitis, responsible for Health and Food Safety, welcomed the announcement and stressed that "the quality of beef and beef products from the EU is recognised worldwide." He also said: "Extra access to this important market is excellent news for EU producers." Now that the restrictions on Danish and Dutch beef have been lifted, producers from those countries will be able to benefit from the tariff reductions possible under the agreement. At a meeting at the beginning of September, the Korean authorities confirmed that the current applications from EU Member States will be dealt with. Are there any restrictions on imports of Belgian beef into South Korea at the moment? If so, what restrictions are in force? Is there an application pending to remove any restrictions in force on Belgian beef? If so, how long can we expect the restrictions to be lifted? If not, why has no application been made to lift the restrictions? Then I've got a little extra. On 21 November, the EU would have decided to allocate EUR 200 million for the promotion of agri-food products. More than half would be devoted to campaigns aimed at markets outside the EU. Mr Minister, do you have any idea of the amount provided for beef, pork and other products important to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u21	Mr Gilissen, although our country has had the status of 'negligible risk to BSE' since 2012, it is true that the last case of BSE in 2006 dates back to the date of 'South Korea', it is true that South Korea still uses a BSE embargo on beef. Yes, it is all the more paradoxical that it has recently lifted its embargo on other European countries. I have sent a letter to my South Korean colleague saying that I am surprised by this situation. I invited him to review the position of the South Korean authorities. South Korea is currently examining similar applications submitted by France and Ireland. The European Commission considers that those dossiers should be closed at the beginning of 2021 and that South Korea should then consider the Belgian demand. In order to avoid this long-term situation, the European Commission is currently calling on South Korea to treat the seven dossiers of European Member States as one request. This point will be discussed again at a meeting at the European level at the end of November. At the same time, the Agency is doing important work to speed up the procedure. Detailed questionnaires were completed. The Agency shall consult with the services of the European Commission in order to improve the files. Visits from foreign delegations have yet to be organised and a sanitary agreement has to be negotiated, which may take several years. However, I asked the Agency to make it a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u22	Thank you for your reply, Minister. From this answer, too, I conclude that you are doing everything possible to ensure that, in this case, our beef sector can come out well and sell its products in South Korea. I look forward to the new discussion which will take place at the end of November and to a possible positive outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u23	Mr President, Minister, if we wait long enough, things will solve themselves, as we have just discussed. My initial question dates back to seven weeks ago. Looks like she solved herself, too. Nevertheless, I would like to add something or have another comment on the matter. My question was about the publication of a law on late payment in commercial transactions. The law, which was adopted unanimously in April 2019, was finally published more than six months later, namely at the end of October 2019. Moreover, the law was not published until after we had asked a written question on this matter. Moreover, we have never received an official answer to our question. We had to read this in a press release. As the law came into force, in order to support our companies and strengthen their competitiveness, it is extremely important that such dossiers are not left behind and absolutely addressed. I would urge you to do so. I also wonder what would have happened if I had not asked the written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u24	Mrs Houtmeyers, sometimes asking questions can be useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, the law amending the law on combating late payment in commercial transactions was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 29 October 2019. As soon as I was informed that the law favourable to SMEs had not been published in the Belgian Official Journal, I immediately contacted the competent department. I requested all the documents and had the law published immediately in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I assume that our written question has been followed up, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u27	So, Mrs Houtmeyers, you do not have to be reluctant to ask questions if something has not been published. That might help.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u28	Mr. Chairman, you said it was useful to ask written questions. That is correct, but there is no link between the written question and having contacted the departments useful for the publication of this law in the Belgian Moniteur. I wanted to clarify this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u29	I understood things differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u30	I'm here to help.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u31	Minister, the trade dispute between the United States and the EU has begun with a dispute over Airbus and is now increasing. It is again the agriculture that gets off. Following the Russian sanctions against the fruit sector in particular, the agricultural sector is once again affected. Belgian agricultural products, which have nothing to do with aircraft construction, are the victims. In fact, Belgium has not given any state aid to Airbus at all and is therefore unlawfully involved in a problem caused by other countries. Firstly, is the figure of 3 million that Fevia is putting forward as a direct impact due to trade barriers on cheeses and pork? What calculations have your services made in this respect, Minister? Secondly, what impact do the US sanctions have, directly or indirectly, on the Belgian fruit sector? Thirdly, what assessment do you make of the indirect costs of the higher import charges on EU products? Fourthly and finally, will you urge your European colleagues to find a quick solution to the problem underlying history, namely illegal state aid to Airbus? Will you, if necessary, ask for compensation for the damage caused to Belgian farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u32	Mrs Gijbels, the figure Fevia puts forward, EUR 3 million, is perhaps based on export dates from the National Bank. The same exercise based on US Census Bureau's US import figures has a direct impact of about 1.2 million euros. The majority, 90% of these 1.2 million additional US import duties, concern several dairy products. The direct impact on the Belgian fruit sector is 107,000 euros. Belgian pork is not found in the dates of the US Census Bureau. Making a concrete assessment of the indirect impact of US tariff measures is currently very complex. In any case, the measures have a particular impact on those sectors for which other export barriers already exist. Those Member States which have granted subsidies to Airbus which are not in conformity with WTO rules were invited to act as a rule as soon as possible. The European Commission also had many high-level contacts with the US to encourage them to accept the EU's proposal for a negotiated solution. At the moment, the US does not seem to want to follow that path. At the Agriculture and Fisheries Council of 15 October 2019, Belgium also supported the request of several Member States for EU support to the agricultural sector affected by US measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u33	Thank you, Minister. I hear other numbers here, which are a little lower. I hope those figures are correct. Any disadvantage that the agricultural sector suffers from trade barriers has a serious impact on individual farmers. I suggest that you follow the issue closely, including together with the European Commission, and see if compensation is possible from the countries that have effectively granted state aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u34	Mrs. Jadin is absent. Her question No. 55001413C on vertical agriculture will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u35	Minister, the profession of real estate agent is regulated in our country. The Law of 11 February 2013 on the organisation of the profession of real estate agent constitutes the legal basis for this. Those who exercise the profession of real estate agent, real estate agent, syndicus or real estate agent-rentmeester should register with the tableau of professionals of the Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents (BIV). There are also several obligations, such as a training obligation. In one of the most important decisions in life, namely buying a real estate, with far-reaching financial consequences, every resident in our country is so assured of the professionalism of the broker involved in this transaction. Recently a new appeal emerged in our country, the real estate agent. While a traditional real estate agent does business with both the seller and the buyer of a property, a real estate agent focuses exclusively on the buyer who is accompanied throughout the purchase process. Those brokers also apparently have to register with the BIV and comply with the legal requirements, as according to the BIV, the profession of broker falls within the definition of real estate agent intermediary. The legal protection of the profession, unlike the traditional profession of real estate agent, is less logical. The broker actually exercises a certain control over the real estate agent and does not receive commission on the purchase price, but often a small lump sum. The broker is also limited to the construction inspection of the house and therefore the regulation may not be necessary. However, it is also understandable that a quality label could apply to these people. I have the following questions, Minister. Is it true that the new profession of broker falls within the legal definition of real estate agent intermediary and therefore constitutes a regulated profession, with all the obligations associated with it? Are all real estate agents covered by this definition, even if the real estate agent is limited, for example, to the building technical inspection of the property? What's the reason for this? A quality score on the advice of the broker could be an alternative. In this way the consumer can be sure of his professionalism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Verhelst, this is a very technical question. I'll be precise. First of all, I would like to say that there is no legal definition of the profession of broker. This is a relatively new activity, which must be considered in relation to the regulated profession of real estate agent. As provided for in Belgian law, the activity of real estate agent in the real estate sector, I quote, "he who provides certain assistance on behalf of third parties for the purpose of establishing a contract of sale, purchase, exchange, rental or transfer of immovable property, immovable property or commercial funds." We must therefore check the activity of the broker against that definition. The definition of real estate agent clearly also refers to the purchase of real estate. Thus, mediation in the purchase of immovable property is covered by this definition. What if the real estate agent confines himself to the building engineering inspection of the houses? It seems clear to me that the words 'certain assistance for the establishment of a sale contract' are crucial here. In some or many cases, this activity does indeed constitute a measure of assistance. The broker represents the interests of the buyer. He guides him through the entire purchase process and wants to make a correct estimate of the price-quality ratio and the purchase conditions. This must of course be considered on a case-by-case basis based on exactly what the broker does for his customer. Since such an activity is very likely to fall within the scope of the real estate agency law, a system of quality labels does not seem appropriate at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your opinion. In my opinion, the greatest stress in this profession is about the comparison with real estate agents. A real estate agent who asks for 3% of the sales price earns 60,000 euros on a property of 200,000 euros, so that his total earnings soon run in the tens of thousands of euros. For example, buyers only charge 300 euros for a consultation. They want to be a kind of counterweight of real estate agents, while they are under the same yoke. That's where the discontent of that profession is. It is a difficult discussion, so perhaps further consideration should be given to how this can be legally established. There must be a vision of the exact assignment of the profession of broker. Another name for this profession, such as purchase consultant, can also bring about a possible improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u38	I can hear your concern. I am prepared to meet with you and with the sector on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u39	Mrs Verhelst, 3% of an amount of EUR 200,000 is EUR 6,000, not EUR 60,000. In the latter case, I would like to become an estate agent immediately, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u40	Minister, almost a year ago, the Footbelgate, one of the biggest scandals ever experienced by Belgian football, was revealed. Several influential figures in the world of football were then called into question, in particular for fraud, money laundering or match-rigging. The Footbelgate has recently resurfaced, following various searches and the arrest of a player agent and a manager, both well known to the general public. In particular, these transactions have led to the identification of suspicious transactions involving player transfers. We are now talking about money laundering, but we are talking about private corruption, forgery and the use of fakes, or the association of criminals. It is very sad that such revelations stain the image of Belgium's most popular sport. Unfortunately, this shows us how the football sector is affected by financial crime. This is all the more worrying given that money occupies an increasingly important place there. Given the persistence and seriousness of the problem, I would like to ask you the following questions. Since the launch of the Footbelgate in October 2018, have any specific measures been taken to detect and counter fraud, money laundering or corruption in the world of football? Would it not be appropriate to legislate on the transactions that take place in this sector in order to better regulate their specificities, in consultation with the bodies concerned: the URBSFA, UEFA, the Belgian Federation of Football Agents, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Finally, a little over a year ago, on November 6, 2018, representatives of the Pro League had explained to Parliament that they wanted a clearing house for greater transparency, an institute and an ethical code for agents, maximum commissions and measures on conflicts of interest, all measures to be included in a code of conduct for the 24 clubs and sealed with the support of the legislator in a law. What follow-up has been given to these announcements? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u41	Mr Bayet, I'm not surprised at your question. We come from a region where we love beautiful football. Not the one we talked about through these scandals. Thank you for your interest in this matter. As Minister for Independents and SMEs, I have analysed the situation in my field of competence in order to counter highly reprehensible practices in this sector, which is passionate about our fellow citizens. We have several effective levers to help clean up the Belgian professional football market and to act on contractual relations between professional agents and players and between sports agents and clubs. Contract law, contract practice law and accounting law fall under federal jurisdiction. To take stock of the problems and malfunctions in the sector, I consulted with the Pro League, specialized lawyers, players' agents from all walks of life. I have certainly organised more than 15 meetings on this subject, and I have noticed the following problems. First of all, conflicts of interest must be addressed by agents. Secondly, opaque financial flows are circulating. I also note the dominant position of certain agents, which creates really problematic market practices. What, for example, is an agent who owns half of a locker room and also holds interests in the opposing team during a match? We have therefore seen such practical realities. Similarly, small players' agents are ousted by dominant agents, while athletes lack information about their contractual rights. You know that we are in business, but you also know that if I am a minister, I am also a Member of Parliament – it is one of the aberrations of the system. Know that I can ask myself a question, if I wish. There is no obstacle to this. I'm not here, fortunately! In any case, I can introduce a bill when I am a minister. For my part, I use all the strings at my disposal. That is how I drafted a bill to deal with these problems on the basis of three axes. First, it wants to regulate the sports agent contract with a professional player and a club. Secondly, it aims to prohibit certain practices. Finally, its third objective is to impose more accounting transparency on agents. Solemnly, honourable Member, I invite you to co-sign this bill. In such a case, it is in our interest to work together among several parties. I will therefore allow myself to pass it on to you. I am also attentive to the initiatives of the Pro League. I think there is a real will in them to act, to cooperate. I believe that recent cases have indeed shown the limits of self-regulation. In my view, there are a number of behaviours to be respected that need to be set as standards. I do not prejudge the advisability of a code of conduct here, but I believe it is necessary for a parliamentary debate, probably at the beginning of this and other proposals, to take place in this House and to be able to be further developed as regards the contractual and commercial relations between agents, players and clubs. I hope that we will have an opportunity to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u42	Mr President-in-Office of the Council and I hope to be President, thank you for your answers. I look forward to your work. As you said, regardless of our political formations, we must fight against financial crime and terms such as money laundering, private corruption, forgery and the use of fakes, criminal association, etc. It is in the interest of sport which certainly does not convey values of financial crime but rather fair play, solidarity, etc. I welcome your proposal. It is with pleasure that I will probably be able to associate with it as soon as I have read it. I thank you, anyway, for sending it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u43	Minister, Artisan Day took place this Sunday, November 17. In Wallonia and Brussels, 361 artisans opened their doors to share their know-how and passion with the ever-increasing number of visitors. A recurring demand from the Union of Middle Classes is to go beyond the label stage and to give certified artisans a genuine status from 2020. The Ecolo-Groen Group welcomes this proposal. We believe it is important to target, encourage and assist the craft industry, these women and men who are entering these important trades anchored in our home. We know how difficult it is to maintain such an activity. This event is reserved for the second consecutive year for certification holders. As a reminder, it is obtained by filing a file online, on the website of the SPF Economy. The request shall be considered by an ad hoc committee. To obtain the label, you must work alone or employ less than twenty people and carry out an activity, I quote, "essentially manual, authentic, focused on quality, tradition, creation or innovation". This definition may apply not only to artisans of art but also to those in the food sector, as well as to those who work in wood, stone, glass and ceramics. This certification has been in place since 2017. Today, 1,400 artisans have requested it and obtained it in the country. They are recorded in a register at the SPF Economy. This register makes it possible to envisage the creation of a real status of the craftsman, like what exists in France, for example. Minister, what is your position on establishing such a statute? If so, would it be possible to table a bill or a bill in this regard? What are the types of measures you are considering in order to support the craft industry in our country? There are a number of proposals in this debate: reduction of VAT, aid for accompanying an apprentice, payment facilities, support for developing online activities, a crucial point, etc. These are all things that are important to us and on which I would like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u44	Mr. Vanden Burre, it was a great day this year. I visited a artisanal cheese factory. According to the feedback we have from the Artisan's days, these days are becoming more and more popular. They give our craftsmanship the opportunity to be enhanced. We must ensure that this success is further enhanced. I hope you were also visiting this Sunday. Maybe you'll tell us which craftsman you went to. You have come back to the founding elements of this legislation, and to the criteria that artisans must meet in order to have this recognition. The idea of this legislation, as I recall, is to protect artisans. It is not appropriate for everyone to be a craftsman. A number of criteria must be met. At this stage, the law has enabled the recognition of 1,400 artisans. I want to tell you that it is probably a little too much, compared to the number of artisans who could meet these criteria and who today do not apply. I think we need to make this legislation more public. We need to make it even more known to potential recognized artisans. Indeed, it is a label, but also a protection. This law has therefore been evaluated to see to what extent it could be improved in order to better support artisans. An analysis was carried out by the SPF Economy. An opinion was delivered by the Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants et des SMEs in November 2017. I have also received opinions from several professional organisations representing artisans. As a result, I introduced a series of changes that, from a practical point of view, improved the procedure for being recognized as a craftsman. We have planned, on the one hand, the possibility of completing the applications via the website of the SPF Economy, in order to make all the steps more flexible, easy, easy, direct and fast. On the other hand, we have also taken care to improve the procedures before the committee. We have allowed the members of the committee to carry out on-the-spot checks, which was not possible before. Moreover, since 2018, only artisans recognized by the SPF Economy can participate in this Artisan Day. As I said, this has the effect of putting forward the element of recognition conferred by the legislation and the steps taken by the artisans. The administration was also asked to examine further possible improvements to the law on the legal definition of artisans in order to make the procedures even more flexible, efficient and to ensure even greater recognition of the specificity of craft activities. I am therefore waiting for the proposals for leads in the head of the administration. I think we can still do better. You were also talking about project filing. In day-to-day business, this will not be the case. But, if you wish, Mr Vanden Burre, I can make sure that you are informed of ways of improving the legislation that could go back to the administration in order, if necessary, to prepare a joint bill if a number of elements transmitted can easily be implemented and be budget neutral. We can keep you informed if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u45	Minister, thank you for that answer. As for me, I visited a chocolate shop in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u46	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u47	I wasn't very familiar with the chocolate industry. It's amazing but, finally, very few still make chocolate themselves in Belgium. It was very interesting and very good. I share the analysis you're doing. A whole series of people who are embarking on this type of profession face difficulties. Moreover, it is a true know-how, a tradition that is rooted in us. It's a strength and an opportunity. And it is our duty to encourage it, certainly in a complicated international context where elements of competition are sometimes not always very loyal. It is therefore essential to be able to support our artisans, regardless of the region of the country. What has been done since the analysis of the Artisan Bill is positive. If you can provide me with the results of the study ordered, thank you. Let's look at this together. Thanks to this labelling and status, we want to be able to do more. This is indeed the objective of labelling: to identify what one wishes to encourage and then to take steps to do so. We are at your disposal to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic058x.u48	We have no news of Mr. Patrick Prévot. His question no. 55001732C is therefore obsolete.
