ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Wilrycx converted 28544 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to January, but I think the figures have not changed. In Belgium, there are 350,000 ghost enterprises, representing 23% of enterprises. These companies exist only on paper and do not carry out any real activity. This is evident from a large-scale study conducted by Graydon Belgium. In Brussels, one in three companies would be phantom and 33 000 companies would not have deposited their accounts in the last three years, out of the 110 000 which have their headquarters in Brussels. In many cases, they are front companies, companies that do tax evasion or money laundering. Companies of this kind are an easy prey for fraudsters who seek to swindle honest traders. Indeed, 60% of all frauds are committed through ghost companies or through the recovery of such a company. For a few thousand euros, one can take up such a business and restart an activity. "With this solvency, the company, for example, succeeds in using a leasing company for fifteen cars. Two weeks later, the cars disappeared," illustrated Eric Van den Broele in Graydon's report. Recently, legislative changes have made it possible to move in the right direction. Since 17 May 2017, the law has made it easier to dissolve a fraudulent company. The processing of cases was also facilitated. In 2018, this new law would have allowed more than 5,000 dissolutions in the first ten months of the year. However, industry experts continue to sound the alarm. For some analysts, this legislation is not enough: the definition of phantom society is limited and the chambers of commercial inquiry are still lacking in resources. In April 2018, the president of the French-speaking commercial court in Brussels highlighted his lack of resources and a disproportionate number of companies to be removed. Minister, are you going to put in place concrete actions to go further in the fight against these ghost societies that often have fraudulent objectives? Do you have details of the number of fraudulent companies that have been cancelled in the last five years, by Region or by sector? Are businesses without activity systematically tracked? Are any managers contacted, using data mining and the Business Carrefour Bank (BCE)?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u3	Mr Vanden Burre, I note with you that ghost societies are a serious social and economic problem. The law of 17 May 2017 amending various laws in order to complete the judicial procedure for the judicial dissolution of companies already makes it possible to act more strictly and effectively against this phenomenon. However, this Act falls under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. As far as the practical application of this legislation is concerned, unfortunately or fortunately, I invite you to address my colleague Minister Geens. A total of 14,233 enterprises were automatically cancelled by the ECB for non-filing of their annual accounts for at least three consecutive accounting years. These figures are provided for the period from March 18, 2014 to March 18, 2018. The breakdown by region is as follows: - 5,250 enterprises in the Flemish Region; - 4,365 enterprises in the Walloon Region; - 4,618 companies in the Brussels-Capital Region The three main sectors of activity are: - catering (1,827 enterprises); - retail trade (1 742 enterprises); - wholesale trade (1 562 enterprises). In addition, 8 287 companies were dissolved in court during the period mentioned above. The breakdown by Region is as follows: - 3,175 in the Flemish Region; - 3,095 in the Walloon Region; - 1,161 in the Brussels-Capital Region. The three main sectors of activity concerned are: - retail trade (630 enterprises); - restoration (621 enterprises); - wholesale trade (493 companies). Secondly, the ECB may make itself available to authorities and services in the context of the fight against fraud. However, the very management of ghost societies does not fall within my competence. For the second time, therefore, I invite you to address Minister Geens. In particular, with regard to the use of ghost companies for the purpose of social dumping, under my competence in the field of employment policy, I would like to clarify this. The concept of social dumping must be seen in a broader sense than that of dumping within our borders. Indeed, the problem is essentially cross-border. This is, for example, the case of "letter boxes" companies. A joint European approach is therefore desirable. European social inspection services are a typical example of cooperation between Member States. For several years, the labour inspectorate has been at the forefront in terms of the use of the IMI (information system for the internal market of the European Union), through which electronic data are exchanged between foreign services. Within this framework, approximately 700 applications are sent annually. At European level, Marianne Thyssen's policy has enabled many initiatives to be taken to combat cross-border social dumping. I am very explicitly referring here to the drafting of the amended directive on the posting of workers, based on the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place - which must be transposed into our legislation by June 2020 - and to the imminent creation of the European Labour Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is a real problem, we see it in the figures, and we will have to go further than has already been done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u5	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calomne's 28685 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u6	Mr Minister, an article in The Importance of Limburg shows that the number of tattoo shops in the province of Limburg has increased from 3 to 88 in ten years. There are concerns from the sector. The threshold for starting a tattoo shop would be far too low. A short training on hygiene appears sufficient to start as a tattoo artist. According to the reports, consumers are increasingly confronted with tattooists who do not use the right technique. There is no training for this and there is no condition for starting. Consumers are saddled with a tattoo that does not meet the requirements, and have to pay again to have it updated by another tattoo artist. The FPS Public Health indicates to check for hygiene. There would be 140 controls per year. Firstly, can you give an overview of the evolution of the number of tattoo shops in Flanders over the past ten years, broken down by province? Secondly, does the administration receive complaints about tattoo shops? Do you have figures and data on the nature of the complaints? Thirdly, do you consider that additional conditions for exploitation are necessary? If so, which one? Fourthly, do you have any figures on hygiene checks? How many tattoo shops committed an infringement in this area and what action is being taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u7	Mr Janssen, you were right to point out in the written version of your question that the federal regulations, in particular the Royal Decree of 25 November 2005 on the regulation of tattoos and piercings and their control, are powers of the Public Health Office and of my colleague De Block. The aim of the Royal Decree is to protect public health and provides, inter alia, for the obligation to undergo prior hygiene training and to obtain recognition. Secondly, as a result of the sixth state reform, the power of access to the profession has been transferred to the Regions. Since 1 January 2019, a certificate of professional competence is no longer required to start a business in Flanders. Since you have asked, we, generously as we are, have, of course, asked for the figures to be at your service until the end, Mr Janssen O'Brien. We have here for you an overview of the tattoo shops based on the search in the KBO under NACE-BEL code 96.062, placing tattoos and piercings. We've broken that down nicely for you, over several years. It is something with which you can at least try to convince The Importance of Limburg to publicise it. In total we count 2 319 of these shops in 2019. In 2010, there were only 280. So there is a serious increase. In Limburg there were 32 in 2010 and now there are 280. Your province is overtaken by the province of Antwerp, where there are 434, and also by East and West Flanders. I put all that on paper for you. In the last three years, the Department of Economics has received 11 reports on tattoo shops. The notifications were of purely economic nature and do not refer to the public health aspect or to the tattoo artist's professional skills. All reports were examined and these investigations gave rise to four warnings, two of which were in one file, and a report of infringements of impropriety and counterfeiting. I can't give you any more details on that. To serve you, we have delivered your question to Minister De Block ourselves. I hope to get an answer from her, then I can tell you. Of course, you can ask her the question yourself. The information I have at my disposal, we have brought together for you in a table, which I would like to hand over to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer and the search you have done. We'll see if The Importance of Limburg is interested in bringing the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u9	Mr.President acting, Mr.Minister, on February 2, 2019, the newspapers of the Sudpresse group reported that an old practice in the field of non-establishment of energy contracts was still ongoing in the province of Liège. The process is known; the gaiter sounds at the door of a consumer and requests access to the electricity meter by pretending to be an agent of the distribution system operator (DSO), in this case RESA. In front of the meter, he notes the number and raises the index. He then requested a signature at the bottom of the document attesting that he had carried out the use check. In two phases three movements, the consumer has just changed his energy supplier by signing a new contract without his knowledge. The gaiter only has to enter the meter number in a professional database to obtain his EAN code and the identification number of his connection to the network. RESA, often confronted with these practices since the liberalisation of the energy market, regularly complains to the Finance FPS. However, it is not always easy for the authorities to trace the culprit(s). It seems to me inconceivable to allow such a practice to continue, without taking concrete measures to deal with it. Minister, can you give me the evolution, in recent years, of the number of complaints for this type of behaviour, both on the part of the DSOs and on the part of consumers? Without restricting consumers' freedom to change energy supply contracts, is it not possible to reinforce the formalism required by energy suppliers in order to limit these practices? For example, they could be required to obtain confirmation by SMS or e-mail before validating the contract change. Does this not highlight the need to ban outright sale of this type of contract? Last year, in an answer to a similar question, you told me that the consumer agreement must provide for a longer period than the legal withdrawal period of 14 days for energy contracts. Has there been any progress in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u10	Mr.President, Mr. de Lamotte, since 2017, the number of complaints relating to non-establishment contracts in the energy sector has again increased. However, the Economic Inspectorate has never registered a complaint from a distribution system operator. Non-establishment contracts are already subject to stricter rules in accordance with the European Directive on Consumer Rights, including the right of withdrawal. The agreement "Consumer in the liberalised electricity and gas market" adds to this directive a series of commitments for the energy suppliers concerned. Thus, they must send confirmation of the contract themselves. The change of supplier can only be made after. So there is already some formalism. According to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, door-to-door selling is a commercial practice, so that Member States cannot regulate it further or prohibit it. Only codes of conduct allow more stringent rules for companies to be agreed. The Unfair Commercial Practices Directive and the Consumer Rights Directive aim at almost complete harmonisation. At European level, the Omnibus Directive is currently being discussed in a trialogue. The Romanian President's compromise proposal contains a provision that would allow Member States to regulate more strictly certain forms of non-establishment contracts, including unsolicited door-to-door sales. Our country has approved the mandate given to the Presidency to continue negotiations with the European Parliament on this text. Finally, the code of conduct provides for a longer withdrawal period. This does not begin until the contract has been confirmed by the supplier and not the day after the contract has been concluded, as provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u11	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clarification. Work is therefore under way to amend the Directive with a view to providing further guidance. Having said that, you said that the number of complaints was increasing without mentioning any figures. Is this increase really significant? Do you have a chart on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u12	I asked myself the same question when I was told that there was an increase in complaints, which is why I asked for numbers to be given to me. I will renew my request and when I have them, I will pass them on to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u13	Thank you, Minister. So I'm waiting for you to give me these numbers. In any event, in view of the increase in complaints, there is a need to continue to oversee and monitor these types of off-site contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u14	Mr. Minister, in November 2017, after the Supreme Health Council had called for a total ban on sunbeds, you took a number of measures. Managers were no longer allowed to allow minors or people with skin type 1, but you decided, among other things, that solarium centers will have to have a skin measuring device to determine the skin type from 2019. If the centres do not have it, they must send the users to the doctor for a certificate. I have already said at that time that I do not think that this measure is sufficient. Solar banks are always unhealthy, regardless of the skin type. Your fellow minister also made this clear in her answer to my question in the committee of 6 March 2018. I quote Minister De Block: "If you ask me as Minister of Health who can safely get solar radiation on his skin, then my answer is no one. This applies both to the users of solariums and to those lying on a towel in the sun all day long, wherever on this planet." Mr Minister, I would like to know how many solarium centres are currently equipped with such a skin typer. How many solar banks are required to have such a device on 1 January of this year? In what way is that controlled? Have there been any checks at all? If so, what are the findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u15	Mr President, Mr Jiroflée, I believe that during this legislative period I did not confine myself to statements without action, but I did take concrete steps. The sector of solar banks has also felt this very strongly, given the many reactions I have received, of which no positive in any way. In the first instance, the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 laying down the conditions for the operation of solar centres, to which you refer, provides that the skin type must be confirmed by a medical certificate from a doctor and that a derogation from that rule can only be made where a solar centre has a device to determine the skin sensitivity of the consumer. However, there is no obligation to notify or register the centres which purchase such equipment. My administration therefore does not have the detailed figures you are asking for. However, the conditions apply without derogation to all solarium centres. There are still strict controls in this sector. In the light of the new provisions introduced at the beginning of this year, 500 companies operating a solar centre have already received a questionnaire. A further 300 companies will soon be signed up. On the basis of the questionnaire replies received, the on-the-spot checks will be very targeted and thus organised more efficiently. We received opinions a long time ago. It called for actions to be taken on the solariums. Instead of banning all the sunbeds, with all the consequences on the private sphere, we have acted in a regulated manner. We have gone very far, with a medical certificate and that device. We will continue to monitor very closely the sector, which is a very specific sector with many types of solariums. I share your concern. Consumers are not always well informed and affected. I have made far-reaching changes to the regulation in view of the consequences for someone who uses or is encouraged to use the solarium, with the aim of maximum protection for consumers. The legislation is one of the strictest. The next step would be to simply ban the sunbeds. The legislation must now be complied with. I've made agreements with the Economic Inspectorate on this. If the legislation is not complied with, it will be severely sanctioned. We have had solar banks closed down in the past. We shall do so again now, if the rules are not respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u16	You have indeed taken concrete steps, Minister. You did not hear me say the opposite, but perhaps those steps were not far enough. I note that you still have no idea how many companies comply with the regulations and have such a device at your disposal. I think it is high time to check this; 1 January is now almost three months ago. I also note that you are sending out questionnaires and will check them on the basis of them. There's something else I need to say, Minister. You just mentioned the size of the sector. There are sunbeds in different places, for example in beauty salons and fitness centers. I asked a written question on the figures in February, but I have not yet received an answer. I would like this answer before the end of this legislature. I know, however, that I quickly ask for an answer, and some of your fellow Members leave written questions to be answered for a year. I may not have any reason to advertise yet, but it would be very useful to get a look at the figures. I find it difficult to imagine that the inspection, when it does its job, does not have the figures relating to the number of cases in our country and the different types. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u17	I am sure the Minister will take that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u18	Mrs Jiroflée, it is a pity that you have not yet received the answers to your questions. I'll have this checked out right away. I have a habit of formulating answers as soon as possible. I don't know what went wrong. My colleague says he is not immediately aware of it, but I will have your written question checked. For which I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u19	I would like to stress that I know that you usually answer your questions immediately. It would have been nice to have all the numbers. I am thus in joyous expectation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 28811 is hereby withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 28813 and 28815 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers also converted 28821 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u21	Mr President, Minister, in most stores, until the smallest snack, a receipt is systematically printed after a purchase. When payment is made electronically, a second ticket is printed. Most of the time, these tickets are not taken by the customer, and directly discarded, especially when it comes to small amounts. Kilometres of strains are thus systematically thrown away, without any use. This is a waste of paper. Minister, what are the obligations for traders to print e-payment receipts and receipts? Based on these obligations, do you consider it useful to remove them if the client does not request a receipt, or at least for purchases below a certain amount? Do you think it would be useful to introduce a ticket printing ban when not requested by the customer, at least for purchases below a certain amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u22	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I have already answered this question last year. I am ready to clarify again. Maybe it was someone else's question. To be very clear, the printing of a cashier's ticket or proof of electronic payment is not mandatory. However, they may be useful to the consumer in applying the guarantee scheme or, for example, in monitoring the operations of the consumer's account. Little by little, we see shops that provide proof of electronic purchase. It's certainly a good thing. As I have already said, it is necessary for the consumer, under the guarantee legislation, to have proof of purchase. There's a difference between the check-in ticket and the proof of purchase. It does not necessarily have to be printed. The trader may therefore propose to the consumer that the proof of purchase be sent to him by electronic means. It's a paperless possibility. The guarantee legislation applies to all consumer goods purchased by the consumer, regardless of their value. A ban on the printing of cash tickets would therefore be contrary to this legislation. To be clear, there is no requirement to print the cash ticket, but the legislation clearly states that proof of purchase must be provided either in paper or in electronic form. Many small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the opportunity to transmit proof of purchase electronically and use the cash ticket.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. It would be interesting to consider how to reduce this waste of paper for small purchases, for which there is no guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u24	The next question is: 28935 by Mr Flahaux. I do not see Mr Flahaux. We shall be waiting for him to enter the Chamber during the current round of questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 29072 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 29077 has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u25	Mr President, Minister, pursuant to the 2003 Royal Order, we have now entered the final phase of the modernization of the elevators, namely those put into service before 1 January 1958 known as the former elevators. The latter, like all others, must now strengthen their security. Nevertheless, many of them have an undeniable heritage value similar to that of the Hotel Métropole in Brussels and have design features: open sheath and accordion grid. Some of these elevators are even classified or have a certificate of historical value. The 2005 Royal Order also recognizes the Kinney method of validating technical solutions that respect the heritage value of elevators. I would also like to refer to the article of the newspaper La Libre Belgique of 4 January 2019 entitled "Death announced from the old Belgian elevators" which drew my attention and which mentions the difficulties of the owners and ascendorists to modernise their elevators while maintaining their heritage value. This article also mentions a challenge to electronic curtains, a safety component essential to enhance safety while preserving this heritage. The article notes that electronic curtains have been placed in our country's elevators for more than fifteen years. Minister, what are the reasons for no longer placing electronic curtains? How many times has the Historical Elevators Subcommittee of the FPS Economy been seized? What have been the results in terms of solutions to modernize and preserve classified or historic elevators? What solutions have been validated to date in these elevators with gates and hoppers opened by an external service for technical checks? Of the twelve external services for approved technical inspections in our country, how many do they apply the approved Kinney method?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u26	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, this is a delicate matter. I'm going to try to give you some information because since last year, two discussions are underway on electronic security curtains. On the one hand, additional security risks are associated with the placement of electronic safety curtains in existing elevators. Some types of safety curtains involve, among other things, an increased risk of falling. On the other hand, there are problems with the legal framework for the installation of these safety curtains. According to some stakeholders, these safety components must comply with the Machinery Directive, which would make their installation in these elevators almost impossible. These problems are known to my administrations. Right now, they're looking for a solution. Before the Historical Lifts Sub-Committee meets, a complete dossier is always requested. This includes the lift data, an opinion from the regional authority confirming the historical value, a risk analysis by an external service for technical checks and a proposal for modernisation. Since the establishment of the subcommission in 2009, only three complete dossiers have been introduced. So far, this sub-committee has met once at the request of the owners of a historic elevator. The purpose of the subcommission is to facilitate modernization and to specify additional solutions. Generally, solutions that retain the historic character of an elevator are considerably more expensive than standard solutions. As a result, owners often seek cheaper alternatives. For hoppers, there are different solutions against the interlocking of limbs ranging from a grid to a plexiglas screen. For grids, there are also several solutions that prevent the interlocking of body members. Thus, a sliding door can be converted into a swivel door. In Belgium, there are 12 external services for technical checks for the lifting equipment sector, six of which propose the Kinney method on the basis of a question from the SPF Economy in 2018. To sum up and to conclude, we know the problem. We have some elements under discussion, especially the issue of safety and compliance with the Machinery Directive. We have all the necessary organisations and procedures. I hope that we will find a suitable solution as soon as possible. The administration is actively seeking this solution in collaboration with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. You're telling me that the administration is looking for a solution with the sector, but it's really very urgent! We are in the final part of the alignment of these elevators, which have heritage value and are located in buildings that also have heritage value. If we fail to find a final option, we will witness the demolition of this type of elevators that are part of an important heritage. Minister, your administration would do well to find a solution so that we can move forward. The owners of these historic buildings are very concerned and wonder how to solve this problem. We are at the end of the funnel and I draw your attention to the heritage value of these buildings and elevators. The associations are throwing you a SOS.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez 29156 is withdrawn as she is not present. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Smaers' 29201 will be converted into a written question. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh asks for her question No. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers (COM (88) 526 final - Doc. Otherwise, she'll be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u29	You're asking me to take the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u30	Yes. She's on the Justice Commission now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u31	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1065x.u32	Then let me turn this question into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 28935 by Mr Flahaux lapses, as we have not heard from him. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz 28747 converted into a written question.
