ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u1	Madam President, I have a small comment on the oral questions. As a newcomer I may be a little too enthusiastic, but on 22 August I submitted a question on the Brussels city toll. I was told that I will not receive an answer from Minister De Croo until October 22nd. However, the Minister was here last week. I also note that questions on the civil list are being answered today, while questions on the dotation will not be answered until 22 October. I note that Mrs Wilmès has made a number of changes to Minister De Croo's reply, while he was here last week. Maybe I'm a little too excited and my sturm-und urge is a little too big, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u2	People are never too enthusiastic, but I would like to point out that the agenda was drawn up a few weeks ago. Your questions will certainly be addressed, but it was not possible to add them to the current agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the state of our country's budget, a situation that you yourself have created, concerns many of us. We will probably hear that a number of times later. My question is based on reports from three months ago. The figures we received three months ago from the Planning Bureau, from the European Commission and from the Monitoring Committee show one constant: the Swedish coalition has been very keen on the budget. The citizens of this country fear that they will have to pay the price in the future. In the meantime, we can see that the figures in each report are getting worse. Madam President, we still have not had a real exchange of views in this House with those responsible for the budgetary situation. I hope that we can deal with this matter now, or during the two-week exchange of views. Madam Minister, you have still not explained, expressed your own appreciation, not been accountable, about the poor figures. Worse still, what bothers me and some of my colleagues, you're acting like nothing's wrong. You're acting like we can let everything go. The press says that you are communicating to the European Commission that Belgium will submit a provisional budget for the Stability Pact. Only provisional twelfths. There's no talk of income. I've had to adjust my question a little bit since the new report arrived. Madam Minister, why are you delaying in explaining your reactions to Parliament and to the people about the poor budgetary situation in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u4	Madam President, Mr Bertels, I appreciate enthusiasm, but I also appreciate honesty. I am always available to Parliament. You may not be in this House long enough, but the people who know me know that I am always available. As far as the figures of the Monitoring Committee are concerned, they cover three main aspects: primary expenditure, revenue and social security. If we really want a statement on the full budgetary situation, something must be organized with the three ministers. That is the most important aspect. You drafted your question a few months ago. If it had been possible to come to Parliament earlier, I would have done so. I always came here when I was invited. I shall now answer the question you have asked me. I would like to emphasise once again that I appreciate enthusiasm but also honesty. In my reply, I would like to focus on the multiannual perspectives. Your original question was about the Monitoring Committee. I will therefore answer this question. You also know that an exchange of views on the subject is planned in this committee on 23 October. Then I will come back in more detail to a number of other pertinent elements. I'll take the time to explain everything. For the period 2020-2024, entity 1's nominal deficit will deteriorate to 2.2% in 2024 as compared to 1,43 % in 2019. It is therefore about a deterioration of 0.77% of GDP between 2019 and 2024. As a percentage of GDP, revenue remains more or less stable. They fluctuate around 32% of GDP. Primary expenditure, excluding social security, evolves together with tax revenue 2,9 % per year, which is less than 15% for the period 2019-2024. Social security expenditure shows a more marked increase, e.g. 21% for workers' social security. This is mainly due to disability benefits, 29% to employees and self-employed persons, and to pensions, 26% to the three schemes. So I do not see how anyone can say that this is the result of the government's current policy. It has to do with years of immobilization before we took on our responsibilities. The interest burden continues to decrease steadily and goes from 1.68 % of GDP in 2020 to 1.38 % of GDP in 2024. The Monitoring Committee has made an estimate of the evolution of the level of debt for the whole government. It would fluctuate around 101 % of GDP over the whole period. As a result, Belgium would not meet the objectives imposed by Europe in the context of public debt. So much for my answer to your original question, with additions to your comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u5	Madam Secretary, first of all, you shouldn't take such an attitude. I simply note that the question was submitted three months ago. I assume that you were available to Parliament, but we have to note that a question will be tabled at the beginning of July and that an answer will not be forthcoming until the beginning of October. However, it concerns a report which had to be made available at the beginning of July. That is a pure statement, so you should not blame me. Secondly, you refer to primary expenditure and revenue in social security. You are the Minister for the Budget and I assume that you will present a coordinated whole as a budget in that capacity. Thirdly, on 23 October, during the exchange of views, we will discuss politically the figures before us. I assume you blame me for immobilizing...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u6	No, it is about, for example, the years of immobilisation in relation to the evolution of the cost of pensions. That has nothing to do with you personally, Mr Popular Representative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u7	Madam Secretary, I would just like to point out that your party is the longest in the federal government, along with the Open Vld. This has been the case continuously over the last 20 years. Assume you're blaming yourself for being immobilized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out here that it was physically impossible to convene the committee during the holiday period, as I have already explained in our exchange of e-mails. The situation is beyond the Minister's control.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u9	Madam President, I have just made a statement. I didn't blame you, but I've heard other things across the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u10	Question No 55000301C by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u11	Madam President, Minister, this is a typical question for current affairs, a question that we are constantly asking in plenary. We know that there will be some discussion about the budget. Yesterday, the Flemish government agreement aimed at achieving a budget balance by 2021 was proposed. The Walloon Region speaks of 2024, whereas the French Community does not even speak of 2024. The debate on how tightly these budgets are managed is raging. That debate is being held not only here but also in Europe. An article recently appeared in the Financial Times stating that the European Commission is coming up with plans to relax the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP). The debate is mainly taking place in the Netherlands, which is able to present good budgetary figures and which actually wants to keep a tighter watch on the rules agreed in Europe. It is said that there are rules of the game and that, if one does not respect them, there must be consequences. Madam Minister, it seems interesting to me to ask some questions about this in this context of current affairs. Do you confirm that, in discussions at such a level, it is not for a government in current cases to decide its position on its own on such an important issue? Do you agree that, when discussions arise, we should first seek a consensus in Parliament, that we should work together to find a majority in favour of the position which will be defended at European level? My next questions relate in particular to the European Commission's plans. Have you seen those plans yet? Were they worried about you? I know that there was an ECOFIN meeting on 13 or 14 September where it was on the agenda, or if it was not there then in the Eurogroup or in the margins of the European Council. If you have those documents, can you get them to us? Finally, you will see in many areas that a number of countries are clustering and starting to work together. With the British who will leave the European Union, it can be seen that the countries that will be heavily impacted are getting closer together. This is mainly about the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark and Ireland, which are more united at European level. What is your opinion on this? Wouldn't it be interesting for Belgium to join that group of countries that are a little tighter in budgetary learning?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u12	Madam President, Mr Loones, with regard to your question on the possible revision of the Stability and Growth Pact, it should be noted that Belgium has not yet been asked to give an official opinion on this issue, since it is mainly the services of the European Commission that examine the relevance, feasibility and, where appropriate, the modalities. Only if the dossier is presented within the technical bodies, including the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, and this could take a very long time, will Belgium discuss this issue through its representatives. So far this question has not been raised. I hope that by then we will have a government with full powers. Your third question, in the article "European Commission plans to simplify euro area budget rules," published by the Financial Times, refers to a SGP2.1. However, this is an internal brainstorm document from EU officials and not an official vote on behalf of the Commission. To date, the Commission services have not, to my knowledge, distributed any document or official note on this issue. Given the complexity and sensitivity, progress in this dossier may take some time. Yesterday I contacted the services on this matter again to be sure of my answer, but they did not receive anything. At the informal Ecofin meeting on 13 and 14 September, a presentation was given on the evaluation of the European Fiscal Board, an independent body linked to the Commission. This evaluation was published on the European Commission's website. This is not a proposal from the Commission itself. The Commission is working on its own evaluation by the end of this year with any proposals for adaptation. At this preliminary stage, it is early to put forward concrete proposals or indicate where the SGP needs to be adapted. However, the Belgian position that greater flexibility should be introduced to support investment is well known. The position of the Belgian authorities was already delivered to the Commission in the position paper, as approved by the Consultation Committee of 28 March 2018. If you would like more information on this informal Ecofin meeting, you should ask the Minister for Finance. I've tried to contact him, but I haven't gotten an answer yet. I'm sure he'll tell you about this. With regard to cooperation with the other countries, it is true that it is very important in Europe's dynamics, especially in relation to the Brexit, that the countries in the same situation should speak with each other. At the same time, some flexibility is needed. We are seeking, among other things, greater flexibility for investment. As far as I know, the Netherlands is not in favour of greater flexibility. Of course, we must find friends who share the same views. So far, only one position has been adopted at Belgian level, namely the position of the Consultation Committee. That would require greater flexibility. I am not convinced that the Netherlands is in favour of this position. If my opinion is not correct, I will of course be very pleased that we can get more countries on our side for more investment. After all, we know that investment will be of great importance in the coming years. We also know that, in the light of yesterday's announcement, the Flemish Government is also planning investment in a large part of its agreement. That is, of course, very similar to what we want at federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I would like to make three points. Firstly, I thank you for your openness and willingness to share all the documentation. Secondly, and in conjunction with that, I hope that we can often work together in this way over the next five years. In particular, I hope that we will be able to discuss European meetings in advance in committee, so before there is a position and not just a report in the European Affairs Advisory Committee afterwards. We want to do that in this committee because the more specialised politicians in financial matters are part of it. Thirdly, on flexibility, we have had discussions in the past about Eurostat's difficulty in spreading productive investment over a number of years. However, it is not about all investments but about and number of productive investments. I would like to emphasise that the Flemish budget is intended to be in balance by 2021. There will be no great flexibility in this area, except for the very large investment projects which cannot be written off in the Flemish budget in one year simply because the budget is too small. In that connection, I am talking about the Oosterweel dossier. If we continue to hold such a debate and say that additional positions need to be taken, I hope that we will also be able to adopt that position in committee. After all, we have heard the willingness to do so today from the Minister, for which we thank her very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u14	Madam Secretary, with the exception of one of the King's children, all the royal couple's children do not receive normal education. For example, one of the king's children started an English-language private school in September, which could cost up to 40,000 euros of learning money. In case of any extra lessons, the bill can be up to 60,000 euros. Madam Secretary, is it true that such fees and school bills are paid through the civilian list? If so, I would like to have an overview of the tuition fees and school bills per king's child. The financial part of the civil list covers all costs directly borne by the King bound by his function and that in the broadest sense of the word. Do such tuition fees and school bills actually fit into the civil list? Do you see any possibility of removing such expenditure from the civilian list?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u15	Mr Vermeersch, first of all I would like to say a few words about who is dealing with which question. As soon as we receive a question, my services will try to provide the best possible answer. In this case, the contributions fall within the competence of the Minister of Finance and therefore the question has been addressed to him. I do not normally answer for my colleagues unless they explicitly ask, which is not the case here. The Law of 27 November 2013 establishing the civil list for the duration of King Filip's government and its explanatory statement do not distinguish between private and public expenditure, but state that the civil list allows the King to perform his constitutional duties in full financial independence and that its determination at the beginning and for the duration of the kingship avoids the King himself having to ask for financial coverage. The law is quite precise in its purpose and in this case the law is fully respected. Moreover, I can tell you that no additional resources have been entered in the Federal State budget to cover the costs that are the subject of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u16	Did I understand your answer correctly that there is no provision for money to bear these costs? So you won't bear those costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u17	I don't think I understood you correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u18	There is 40,000 euros of learning money. You tell me that you did not include anything in the budget. Can I assume, then, that the government will not pay the 40,000 euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u19	No, I'm not saying that. I have explained to you the law and explained the reasons for the payments to the King, namely in order to respect his independence. He'll do whatever he wants with it. I have also provided additional information: no additional funds have been requested or given to cover these costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u20	In the meantime, I understand you correctly. According to a number of calculations by royalty experts, the wealth of the royal family is now increasing to nearly 1 billion euros. Those 40,000 to nearly 60,000 euros are the King's private expenses, as you call them, and they are being passed on to the taxpayer today. We believe that all this can be done in this country and that this is happening is an absolute disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u21	Madam President, Minister, Charles Michel has announced that he wants to double Belgium's contribution to the fight against climate change, from 85 million euros to more than 160 million euros. This climate issue is obviously extremely important and worrying. We therefore wholeheartedly welcome that intention. Nevertheless, this announcement in the United Nations rostrum raises questions. How, technically, can the government in day-to-day affairs propose to double this contribution? Would it be fiscally neutral or at the expense of other policies, particularly in the area of development cooperation? On a subject as important as this one, we would of course not be able to accept that major statements should not be followed by concrete effects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u22	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. For the sake of consistency, you will allow me to respond in a similar way to what I have already said in plenary. I don't mind. But, for the sake of consistency, I think it is worth keeping the same answer, especially since it is the right answer. We are sometimes surprised, but this is not the case! In the context of day-to-day affairs, it is indeed up to Parliament to decide in which areas, how and when actions should be taken to meet the objective of doubling the effort to combat climate change. You will recall that the Prime Minister told the United Nations that he was going to propose it to Parliament. It is therefore up to Parliament to take the decision. As far as the budgetary technique is concerned, we have a provisional twelfth budget which corresponds to a copy-paste of the last voted budget and we are implementing decisions which have already been taken and which have a budgetary impact which was not present in the preparation of the budget in question. In other words, the last budget is for 2018. We make it a "copier-paste" and divide it by the number of months it corresponds to and add a series of derogations, namely the "volume" effects but also the decisions that have been taken. I recall that, in the last months of the previous legislature – you were not there, I think – a whole series of laws were passed by Parliament, while the government was already in day-to-day business, even before the dissolution of the Houses. Since these laws have been passed, if they take effect during the period in question, as Minister of Budget, I must introduce them in derogation in the budget in provisional twelfths. All this is controlled by the Court of Auditors. This means that if Parliament finds a majority in its membership to decide on certain measures with a budgetary impact, then it will be incumbent on me to introduce them into the various budget documents that we may still have to present. I said'maybe', because we hope that next year we will have a full-function government that will be able to carry out its budgetary task.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will support any move towards an increase in the budget devoted to this topic. Nevertheless, we do not forget the decisions taken by the government over four years on SNCB, development cooperation, and in the absence of a major climate plan. I repeat that, if we support any initiative for an increase, we do not want it to be taken at the expense of the development cooperation budget, since it enables us to achieve – by other means – the same objectives in the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u24	Madam Minister, this question brings us back from climate hysteria to the budget. The deadline for Europe, October 15, is very close. At the end of the Ministerial Council of 20 September 2019, Prime Minister Michel transferred that responsibility to the next government. Prime Minister Michel said it was up to future reformers to find a solution. That statement raises a few questions. Madam Minister, was Prime Minister Michel's vision tested with the European Commission? Does the European Commission take part in Prime Minister Michel's reasoning? If so, will the European Commission allow some kind of delay to Belgium? Do you still consider the 15 October deadline feasible? Are there any consultations with the European Commission on the current application of an emergency budget on the basis of provisional twelfths? Prime Minister Michel said to the Belga press agency: 'The Minister of the Budget is doing what she has to do in order to transfer to the people who will start the formation of the government the main elements that must make it possible to transfer a budget to Europe as soon as possible, and I hope to transfer it to Europe within the prescribed time limit.' That's a quote. Madam Secretary, what are these important elements? How are you getting on with your preparations? The European Commission published a very critical debt report on Belgium in June 2019. Our country was just not placed on the European criminal bench. In the meantime, it has become clear that the Belgian budget is increasingly derailed, as has been mentioned here today. How do you estimate a future excessive deficit procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u25	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, the Code of Conduct in the Stability and Growth Pact allows, in the event that some European governments have not yet been formed by 15 October or cannot at that time submit a full draft budget, to submit a draft budget under unchanged policies for 2020, with an obligation to submit an updated version once the government has been formed or can submit a full draft budget. Indeed, for some countries, such as Spain in 2016, this situation has already occurred. You will understand that it is impossible for me to tell you when we will have a federal government with full powers. I can only hope that the negotiations will come to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. There is no discussion with the European Commission on the DBP, given that the Stability Pact's code of conduct is clear about the current situation, as I have just explained. It states that a State is allowed to submit a budget under unchanged policies. If there are discussions with the Commission, they will be held after the draft budget has been submitted, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The government is aware of the restrictions imposed by current cases, but has nevertheless wanted to take a step forward on the 2020 budget, in order to develop a preparatory dynamic for the 2020 budget. For example, the Monitoring Committee was instructed to prepare a report on entity 1's budgetary situation for 2019 and for the period 2020-2024, with a view to possible government negotiations. At present, we are not the subject of any excessive deficit procedure. Once again, I cannot predict the future decisions of the European Commission. I can only inform you of the next major deadlines. The next step in the framework of the European Semester is the submission of the draft budgetory plan by 15 October. The European Commission will then have until 30 November at the latest to respond. As has just been pointed out, there is a special way of working for countries without full government. It is intended to present a budget under unchanged policies. In spring 2020, following publication of the provisional figures for 2019 by Eurostat in accordance with Regulation 479/2009, it will be examined whether or not Belgium complies with the debt and/or deficit rule. If these criteria were found not to be respected, the Commission would draw up a letter informing Belgium that it is considering preparing a report in accordance with Article 126 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Before such a report is drawn up, Belgium will have the opportunity to put forward relevant factors which the Commission can take into account in its analysis. In any case, it is clear that Belgium is in a much better budgetary position if it quickly has a government with full powers, which takes the necessary measures in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u26	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed reply. The deadlines are very clear. They're gonna tell us what's gonna happen in the next few months. Nevertheless, I am somewhat concerned about such statements by a Prime Minister. Ever since he had his European parachute, I have the impression that some sort of je-m'en errorism has crept into the government and into his statements. He actually says "after our demise, après nous le déluge." It is up to the next government to clean up the budget. Let us not forget, however, that the entire government, including the Prime Minister, is responsible for the current situation and the fact that the budget is currently completely derailed. We would have liked to have had other answers from our policy makers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u27	Mr Vermeersch, we can have a different opinion on the budgetary situation and on who is responsible or not. We will be able to have a good discussion on this on 23 October. I doubt you'll accept our statement, but it doesn't matter. That's democracy. I would like to comment on what you have just said about the behaviour of this government. It cannot be said, on the one hand, that this is a government in current affairs, without a majority in Parliament, which cannot do much and, on the other hand, that it cannot do much precisely because it does not have a majority in Parliament. It's either one or the other. It's a little weird to blame a government for everything and its opposite. I think we still need a little intellectual honesty. That is why I advocate, as much as I can, the rapid formation of a government. Only a majority government in Parliament can take action at full capacity. I can indeed draw up a budget. Today we can prepare everything for the next team, so that everything is ready and the right figures are available to draw up a budget, unless you give the present government the freedom to prepare a budget, but I doubt that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic016x.u28	I must not, of course, explain to you, Minister, that the gap in the budget did not arise in December 2018. This gap is the result of many years of policy pursued by all then coalition partners. There would even be a socio-economic turn, by analogy with 'the turn of Bracke', but in the end this or the previous government has actually done worse than the Di Rupo government in terms of the budget. It is important that those who bear responsibility also take responsibility and do not transfer the hot potato to those who come behind them. That would be a certain intellectual honesty.
