ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to our first committee meeting after the recess. It is not without importance that we get straight to work on the theme of the forthcoming Brexit. Everyone has noticed over the past few weeks and months that this dossier will also be able to manage the current situation in the coming weeks and months. There is a great deal of uncertainty today, not only among the people of Britain and the rest of Europe, but certainly also among companies: European companies that have a great deal of trade relations with the United Kingdom and, vice versa, British companies that are also active in Europe. The next crucial date is 31 October, at least for the time being. We will see whether this date remains so crucial. Some work has been done in the past. A report by the Belgian Brexit High Level Group, chaired by Count Paul Buysse, was published in January 2017. So that report is already two and a half years old, but what was in it at the time is important. One of the conclusions was very clear: "What absolutely needs to be avoided is a two-year separation without a transition agreement and an idea about the future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union." That was given as a warning. Now, two and a half years later, there is no agreement at all. It is therefore important to take stock of the situation and I very much welcome Count Paul Buysse, the chairman of the Belgian Brexit High Level Group, and the Minister for Work, Economy and Consumers. We shall proceed as follows. An introductory statement is given first by the Minister and Count Buysse together and afterwards the members of the committee are given the floor. The questions of a technical and economic nature will mainly be answered by Count Buysse and the rather political and policy questions by the Minister, so that everything goes efficiently. The order of business will then be followed. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u2	Mr President, I would like to thank you for organising this hearing on an issue that is particularly important: it does not just roll over the tongues of all those who look at it politically and follow it in the media, but it also has an economic importance. The political situation in the United Kingdom is at least volatile. This creates a lot of uncertainty regarding the outcome of the Brexit file. Uncertainty means unpredictability, not least for business and business, your chairman has already referred to it. Today's hearing is an excellent opportunity to take stock of this together. We are going to look at what has been prepared in the past, what has been done in the meantime of these preparations and what are the possible next steps that can still be put in place. Allow me to say that I am particularly pleased that Count Buysse is prepared to take part in this debate from his role as President of the Brexit High Level Group, but also to lead this High Level Group as chairman. This input has been essential for the guidance over the past few years, under my predecessor, Mr Kris Peeters, and at the moment. We try to guide this as best we can. I will start with a brief overview from a political point of view. Then we will discuss the preparation, at Belgian level, for a no deal scenario and Count Buysse will inform us of the actions and results of the Brexit High Level Group. Following the results of the June 2016 referendum, the British chose to leave the European Union. Prime Minister May notified the UK's departure from the European Union on the basis of Article 50 of the Treaty of 29 March 2007. After a one-and-a-half year negotiation, agreement was reached on the terms of withdrawal and a political declaration on the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. I would remind you that these negotiations were conducted at European level by former Commissioner Michel Barnier, and that in the Council of the European Union it is our compatriot, Didier Seeuws, who is leading the work. The texts I have mentioned provide for a transitional period until 31 December 2020. During this period, the political declaration would be taken as the basis for one or more final agreements that would regulate the future and final relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that the political situation on the other side of the Channel is at least volatile and I have used it before. The agreement reached by the European Union with the United Kingdom was rejected three times in the British Parliament. In order to avoid a no-deal, the period of implementation of Article 50 has already been extended twice. The current deadline is 31 October 2019. In the meantime, the Prime Minister, who made that agreement, namely Theresa May, has been replaced by Boris Johnson as Prime Minister and leader of the Conservative Party. Meanwhile, of course, the clock is ticking. Forty-five days remain until the deadline of October 31st. The British Parliament, adjourned until 14 October, adopted a law calling on the Prime Minister to request a further extension if no deal with the European Union is reached on 19 October. Of crucial importance in this sequence is the European Council which will take place on 17 and 18 October. The Prime Minister of Great Britain is meeting with the President of the European Commission today to discuss this further. In addition, the Party Conventions of Labour and the Conservative Party are also important at the end of September and early October. Above all, you can see how they will respond to the Brexit file. Where Theresa May relied on the principle of my deal or no Brexit, Boris Johnson seems to assume the principle of my deal or no deal. The main stumbling block remains, as you probably know, the Irish backstop or the fallback agreement. This means that, if no other solution can be found, Northern Ireland will regulate its rules of the European internal market and that the entire United Kingdom will remain within the customs union. That backstop stays in place until and unless there is a better solution in place. You may all know the position of the European Union in this regard: avoiding a hard border on the Irish island, guaranteeing the Irish all-island economy and protecting the integrity of the European Union and the internal market. That is why the following questions are crucial. What alternative will Boris Johnson be able to put on the table that can reconcile the conditions of the European Union with giving up that backstop? Can this lead to a scenario or sub-scenario before 31 October? If not, how and when will the United Kingdom apply for a further extension of the implementation period of Article 50? Or is the UK completely out of the European Union on 1 November without a deal? The hope of an agreement cannot and must not be abandoned. The EU stands ready to examine any constructive and workable proposal from the UK at all times. Of course, this means that workable and constructive proposals are being put on the table. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the foregoing creates a great deal of uncertainty. This is reinforced by a less favourable economic climate in Europe and the aftermath of a trade war between China and the United States. But let us be clear, as I have already mentioned, we hope and always want to avoid a no deal, both for political, economic and geopolitical reasons. Let us not forget that the United Kingdom is still our country's fourth largest trading partner. We therefore continue to call for a negotiated solution. Uncertainty and volatility weigh on our businesses. At the same time, we must take into account all scenarios, including the no deal. According to a study by the KU Leuven, in the case of a soft brexit, Belgium would have a decrease of 0.6% in GDP, with a loss of 10,000 jobs. In the case of a no-deal, this GDP decrease could reach as much as 2.35 % and a loss of up to 42,000 jobs. In the case of a no-deal, the consequences for our country can therefore be particularly difficult. Our country, together with Ireland and the Netherlands, would suffer the most economic damage. Especially the retail sectors, given the large number of SMEs, with some 2,500 lost jobs, the food industry with 4,000 jobs, the textile industry with 3,500 jobs and the chemical sector with 3,575 jobs could be the most affected. A simulation made by the National Bank of Belgium about the impact on Belgian exports to the United Kingdom is also relevant, should this charge. The United Kingdom announced a provisional tariff schedule. Simulated by Belgian exports over the past five years, around 20% of Belgian exports would be affected, especially in the export of vehicles, fuels and poultry meat. I would also like to stress that, in the case of both deal and no deal, discussions will have to be held with the United Kingdom on the final relationship with the European Union. Let us not deceive ourselves, these discussions will be extremely difficult and complex. As Europeans, we need to avoid tariff and non-tariff competition with our overseas neighbour. Such a situation would be damaging for our companies, hence the importance of continuing to stress the need for a level playing field. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you agree, I would now like to give the floor to Count Buysse, who will explain the work of the Brexit High Level Group. Afterwards, I will consider a number of aspects of the preparation for a possible no-deal at Belgian level. We are, of course, also available for any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of this dynamic committee, I would like to thank you sincerely for the second time I have been given the opportunity to discuss this with you. Indeed, at the end of 2017 we already had the opportunity to do so. I can only repeat what Minister Beke just said, namely that the situation is extremely volatile. We must prepare ourselves as best we can for any situation. We do not know what the final situation will be, but we must prepare ourselves for the full range of possibilities. Unfortunately, it is mostly about negative possibilities. This is a loose-lose situation in the coming months. Exactly that's why the Brexit High Level Group was founded, and that's why before the Brexitrefendum. As you know, the High Level Group consists of representatives of all intersectoral federations, of the National Bank of Belgium, the directors of regional export agencies and a number of entrepreneurs familiar with the United Kingdom. The Minister for Economic Affairs was also present at these meetings. We have met fourteen times so far. A meeting was held last week. Although everything is important, there is one element worth underlining, namely that the Brexit High Level Group was created and became operational before the referendum. Belgium was indeed ready to have the first analyses and to make the first proposals in such difficult circumstances. Mr President, I would like to recall the seven recommendations made by the High Level Group at the very beginning of its work. Firstly, it advocates a transparent and flexible Brexit process and stresses the importance of transitional measures. Next comes the support measures, then the need to attract new activities. In addition, an ambitious free trade agreement must be concluded. I will also come back to our country-wide preparation. Finally, the European Union must be strengthened in the absence of the United Kingdom and must ensure that the internal market is preserved. For some of these axes, the High Level Group has been able to achieve results. On the other hand, for others, we have been confronted with the political reality of overseas. Today, I would like above all to give you an overview of the results achieved by our group in terms of preparation and communication. As I mentioned earlier, the High Level Group was formed well before the British referendum. It seems to me to have played an important role in raising awareness not only of economic actors, but also of public opinion, in particular through the publication of its two reports. The High Level Group was among the first to advocate for a transition period. Similarly, it has influenced the European Commission's position on this issue. This ensured greater stability and predictability for businesses. In our second report, dated December 2017, we were also among the first to plead for preparation for a no deal. The High Level Group has been as proactive as possible in this regard. Various public communications and media events have contributed to a better understanding of the issue and, most importantly, the challenges ahead. In this sense, the presence of federations around the table played a major role. In addition, the Minister of Economy has launched numerous road shows in all provinces, in cooperation with chambers of commerce and federations. Several companies have also been informed about standardization aspects, customs procedures, patent issues, contractual legal follow-up or the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the High Level Group has stimulated the exchange between the authorities and the private world. For example, the latest information on the political situation, the economic situation in the United Kingdom and our trade relations with that country has been easily disseminated to relevant actors. Conversely, questions and comments from economic actors on the ground have been captured and translated into concrete initiatives, as well as their messages and challenges. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called Brexit scan, developed by the Ministry of Economics. This scan looks at a number of questions about the state of preparation and the Brexitimpact for a particular entrepreneur. I am thinking of the impact on imports, exports, intellectual property, transport, suppliers, etc. This scan is a concrete and direct tool for companies. So far, that scan has been consulted more than 25,000 times. This indicates that creating it was a good decision, but also that our business has prepared itself. I am therefore free to advise you to consult that scan for information. For the European side, we have been remarkably congratulated on this. Another initiative is the list of frequently asked questions, the frequently asked questions. On initiative and with the input of the High Level Group, a first version was already created in 2016. It was systematically updated and put online in September 2018. Last week, the High Level Group decided to further refine that list in the light of a possible no-deal. The updated version will be available for consultation on the sites of the Ministry of Economy, other trade departments and the federations concerned by the beginning of October. For many companies that tool proved to be indispensable, especially now that a no-deal cannot be excluded, and that is a euphemism. Finally, I would like to point out that the High Level Group also calls on companies to show some pragmatism where possible in the first days following a no-deal, for example on the organisation of transports. In the long term, it is also important that companies that export proportionally much to the United Kingdom tap into possible other markets in good time. Of course, regional export companies play a crucial role in supporting this. Mr. Chairman, I am convinced that the decision to create this High Level Group was good. So far, in these unpredictable times, the Group has played its role as a stabilizer between the authorities and the economic world. I believe that in the coming period the Group will show its added value. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u4	Thank you, Count Buysse. Mr President, I would like to say a little more about the Belgian preparation for a possible no-deal scenario and to explain the European initiatives that have recently been mentioned in the press. At the beginning of this year, the Council of Ministers decided on an additional recruitment in the context of the Brexit dossier. These recruitments have already been carried out by the various departments, or the procedure is still in progress. On 3 April, a federal, overarching Brexit Act was adopted, which will only enter into force in the event of a no-deal. The date of entry into and exit shall be governed by royal decree. I will perhaps remind you of the main elements of the Brexit Act for the new colleagues. That way, you too know exactly what's in the Brexit Act. The main elements are the following. British nationals and their family members, who already have a right of residence, retain this right. Pending applications are made on the basis of the prebrexit rules. The family reunification with a Brit, who was already before the Brexit in Belgium, will also take place on the basis of the old rules. All this applies until 31 December 2020. The federal social security rights, rights to invalidity benefits, pensions and others, of British nationals, both prebrexit Britten and postbrexit Britten, are further guaranteed until 31 December 2020. The latter subject to reciprocity by the United Kingdom and administrative cooperation with the UK authorities. With regard to energy, a regulatory framework on the independence of Interconnector UK Limited further guarantees Belgium's security of supply in the event of a no-deal until a treaty can be concluded. In the area of justice, there is the preservation of rights of British lawyers acquired on the basis of establishment until 31 December 2020, subject to reciprocity. With regard to financial services, measures may be taken to ensure the proper functioning of financial services and to safeguard the continuity of financial agreements. In the area of taxation, in particular taxation, a transitional arrangement is in place which consists of aligning the United Kingdom with the European Union and until 31 December 2019, the 2020 tax year, for the collection of federal taxes. In addition, there is a reciprocity issue and a requirement for debt securities. I also mention the possibility of exempting authorised economic operators from sanctions, in the event of good faith.This measure will cease to apply one year after its entry into force. Furthermore, a number of royal decisions were prepared for a possible no-deal on employment. This covers work cards, professional cards, internships and frontier workers. Here too, there is continuity until 31 December 2020. I would also like to point out that the cross-border collection of child maintenance payments is under way in the context of a joint solution in the European network in civil matters. I would also like to give an overview of the recruitment of additional staff in the context of the Brexit. A total of 450 FTEs have been opened up. They have been recruited or still to be recruited. This involves additional capacity for the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, Customs, FAGG, FPS Foreign Affairs, FPS Economy, Federal Police and Mobility. If you would like details on this matter, I suggest that you question the relevant ministers to see how far they stand. Finally, it should be noted that the regions have also made the necessary preparations within their own areas of competence. Where necessary, they have taken legislative initiatives. The next slide gives an overview of this. I would now like to go further into the preparation of a no-deal on the European side. In the case of a no-dealbrexit, the European Commission took a further decision on 4 September. Indeed, the affected companies will be able to use two existing European funds, in particular the European Solidarity Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the so-called Globalisation Fund. Both funds will be drawn from the existing envelope. The Commission therefore merely proposes to adapt the modalities of these two existing funds to the reality of a no-deal. Both funds generate around EUR 750 million, which is theoretically foreseen for the whole of the European Union. In practice, the funds will probably go to the countries most affected. Both funds also have a co-financing factor. Negotiations on the precise modalities are currently taking place within the European institutions. I also support the appeal made by the Belgian Members of the European Parliament. They called for an accelerated discussion and adoption of the European Commission's proposals. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude. In order to deal with, as far as possible, the expected chaos in a no-deal, I have also taken an initiative to work with the Netherlands and France on outreach in a number of Central and Eastern European countries. The aim is to raise awareness among local actors in the context of a possible no-deal on 31 October. If we can convey the message that it is appropriate for a no-deal to wait, for example, for departure to the United Kingdom to be able to issue the necessary documents, it may hopefully have a positive impact on the likely mobility button in our country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Count Buysse in myself wanted to give you an overview of Brexit and, in particular, to report on the important role of the High Level Group in the preparation in Belgium. I would also like to thank Count Buysse for his initiative and dedication to Belgian economic interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u5	Thank you, Minister. I would also like to thank Count Buysse for the state of play. In the meantime, we have received the print from the PowerPoint. I believe that the text itself can also be made available. We will send them by e-mail afterwards. For the sake of completeness, I can also say that this meeting will be the subject of an integral report which will soon be published on the Chamber's website. I now give the floor to the members of the committee. An oral question was tabled on the Brexit. I shall therefore give the floor to the questioner first of all. Then I will give the floor according to the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u6	Mr President, I will take my question into account in my speech. That'll be the easiest thing to do. Mr President, Mr Buysse, thank you for your explanation. The negative impact of a no-dealbrexit on our economy and employment is very clear from this presentation, especially for West Flanders, but also for the whole of our country. It could be a loss of 42,000 jobs, which is huge. We see that, despite this bad news, the Netherlands is looking for a number of opportunities. The uncertainty among companies exists not only in our country but also in Britain and the companies there are looking forward to new locations. In the Netherlands 100 companies have already made the crossing to the Netherlands and 325 others are considering doing the same. In total, 62 companies that have already made the crossing already have a profit of 2,500 jobs and 310 million investments. This is limited when one sees what is lost, but it does show possibilities to reverse the negative impact. The Netherlands seems to be doing a good job of finding a number of positive sides to the Brexit tragedy. In Belgium this is a matter for the regions, but I believe that the federal government can also play an important role, especially in terms of coordination. It would therefore be useful to know whether our country is also preparing for this aspect and whether jobs and investments have already been created in this context by companies moving or considering their location to our country. Are we making efforts to raise awareness in this area? If so, what amounts are we talking about? What is the role of the federal government in attracting investment in the context of the Brexit? Does the federal government provide consultation and coordination between the Regions in relation to actions and strategies, in order to get as many jobs and investments as possible to Belgium? If not, why not? Finally, I have a question about an important aspect which has been less addressed today. It seems useful to me to know what the concrete impact will be on consumers in a no-deal. What exactly can the consumer expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u7	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister and Count Buysse for their explanation. The most important message is that we must continue to try to avoid a hard Brexit. It is in everyone's interest to go for as soft a Brexit as possible. The date of 31 October is still far away in political life and a lot can happen in the meantime. I always consider the glass half-full, rather than half-empty. So hopefully we can still do something, in the interests of everyone. I also hope that this government will continue to argue in this way at European level, for example at the European Council on 17 and 18 October. You explained the measures taken to support our companies, such as the road shows and the Brexit scan. Retailing and the food sector will be hit hardest. Were specific measures taken in relation to these sectors? Following on from my colleague's questions, I would also have liked to know what we can do for companies now, with a view to the future. In the Netherlands, for example, much is already being done to convince people and companies to do so in the future, if they have to import products to the continent, through the port of Rotterdam. Are we doing similar things? It sounds a little weird, but one's death is the other's bread. We are also taking measures to attract companies to invest in our country. As often, the Dutch are one step ahead of us, but we have at least as many assets and we have to play them out as well. Minister, you pointed out that different FTEs will be added to cope with the possible consequences of a hard Brexit. I am thinking primarily of customs, but also of other matters which are important for the work of our committee, such as the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. The number of vacancies is one thing, but filling them out is a second. You spoke of 450 vacancies, if I understand correctly. Have those vacancies been filled in by now? In this respect, 31 October 2019 is short notice. That is my second question. Thirdly, you have listed what will be regulated in the Brexit Act in the areas of social security, energy and so on. A very important aspect that will also play a part in this is the fact that we currently have the principle of mutual recognition at European level, but the countries also recognise each other's standards. A hard Brexit would mean that those principles would disappear. Consequently, all products will need to be re-checked. Are there prospects for this existing European legislation on mutual recognition and the recognised standards that have been drawn up at European level to continue to apply? During the previous legislature, I was in the European Parliament, where I was chairman of the Committee on Internal Power and Consumer Protection. There I had understood from many British colleagues that there would be some goodwill from the UK. It will, of course, be much less difficult at the beginning, because the United Kingdom is also applying the legislation in question. The question arises, however, how this will happen in the future? Will the British cooperate voluntarily, as we have seen with Switzerland, for example? Switzerland is often one of the best pupils in the class on the transposition of European directives, as Switzerland includes them in its own legislation on a voluntary basis. Do you see the same thing happening to the United Kingdom, or are you in any case determined that it will continue to do so in the future? Much of the problems that could arise for our companies can be solved in this way. Intellectual property rights are also an element that I did not see immediately. I would like to know what measures are in place in this area. Finally, you mentioned that the European Globalisation Fund and the European Solidarity Fund will provide for these resources. I have two brief questions about this. Firstly, my experience shows that it is often very difficult for companies to find the way to European subsidies. Are you planning a tool for companies to find the way to these European funds? Secondly, the criteria for obtaining these funds state that the funds will primarily go to the regions most affected. In what way will it be determined which are the most affected regions? Purely on the basis of economic criteria, our region will undoubtedly belong to this, but experience has shown that larger Member States, France and Germany, not to mention them, often make their voices heard louder. I therefore call for decisions to be taken on the basis of objective criteria, so that our companies in the most affected sectors will certainly not fall out of the loop.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u8	Thank you Minister and Count Buysse for these important presentations. We all know the date is approaching. We read all the newspapers. However, we have little impact on what is happening in Britain, in any case at our level of Belgian parliamentarians, but we are well aware of the total unpredictability of events. We realize that such a situation of political chaos is bad for everyone. We should learn that lesson in other files as well. As ecologists, we clearly plead for dialogue, to the end. There's a month left. I left my crystal ball at home, so I won't make any predictions. I know it's too bad! Since I've been doing politics in Belgium, I've decided to leave my crystal ball at home! Dialogue is the only option. Even if we come to a no deal Brexit, which unfortunately seems likely today, we must, in any case, dialogue and reach agreements. At this level, we can only support the attempts at dialogue that still exist. The figures from the KUL study show an extremely impressive impact: 42,000 fewer jobs in Belgium. I am thinking of all those affected families, all those men and all those women who are going through these events that are completely beyond us. That's terrible! Mr Minister, I would like to ask questions about what you said, but also about a note from the Ducarme cabinet, which was mentioned in the press a few weeks ago and which concerns SMEs more specifically. I will, of course, address questions to Mr Ducarme, Minister for SMEs. Today, I will discuss some of them and see if some answers can already be given. I read that a campaign for businesses, especially SMEs, would be launched on 1 September, and would have been launched a few days ago. What's the status of this campaign? We know that SMEs are less well equipped than the largest companies and the largest structures to meet the challenge of a potential no deal on 1 November. You have in part detailed the accompanying measures. Do they understand measures specific to SMEs? We talked about European funds. But as has been said, for very small enterprises and SMEs, which form a fabric in Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders, it is not obvious to have access to it, to carry out the procedures, to have people responsible for this follow-up. Is the campaign referred to in Mr Ducarme's note specific to SMEs? Do you have any information? The second element concerns the Brexit Impact Scan which the European Union would have set up. It allows each company to calculate the impact of Brexit on its situation. According to the figures mentioned in the press, the tool has been used 22,000 times since 2018. What is your assessment of this tool? Has the desired success been achieved? Was it positive or negative? I would like to know your reaction to this tool which seems interesting. Was it useful in the field? The third part concerns the negative impacts a no deal would have, in any case in the short term. What would be the potential opportunities for Belgium in the case of a hard Brexit? We have already seen companies set up in Brussels or in its periphery. Are there other things in place? Another question. Is there an equivalent of the High Level Group in the United Kingdom? What would its conclusions and recommendations be? The costed impact of KUL is important, but it will probably also be terrible in the UK, on citizens, workers, and on employment. What role could such a group play in the United Kingdom? Finally, I come to an important question for the daily life of the Belgian citizen. Beyond employment, prices and the availability of certain products, what would be felt by the citizen? We must also prepare for this and not be taken short.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u9	Mr President, I would like to thank you, and Mr.Minister and Count Buysse, for holding this commission, which allows us to get a snapshot of the situation. When we know that this will be a loss of 10,000 jobs for a Brexit soft and 42,000 for a Brexit hard, Belgium will obviously be a collateral victim of a decision that does not belong to it. The main question is whether we are ready today to take on a soft or a hard Brexit. How many companies say they are prepared to face the hypothetical deadline of October 31? It is known that the FPS has designed a Brexit Impact Scan to assess their readiness. How many companies performed the test? Do you think that the measures taken in March 2019 are sufficient in view of the current situation? Have proactive measures been considered to try to make Brexit an opportunity rather than a difficulty? Like the Netherlands, do we want to bounce back on this Brexit and not see only the negative side? As regards public aid, the European Commission has proposed that certain European funds be made available to companies, workers and Member States. Can you tell us more? What amounts are we talking about? What are the mechanisms? I would also like to go back to the short-term consequences because there has been much talk about the medium and long-term. This was very important in the last report that the Commission sent to Parliament in March 2019. I have heard the presentation on this new report, but it is not really about these short-term consequences. We have received a document – described as highly speculative – on the short-term consequences of an unsuccessful exit, but I would have wanted to know if a more detailed analysis of these short-term consequences existed in our country. Count, during your last visit in May 2018, you talked about the scenario of the cliff edge. Today, I think it's a lapalissade to say that we're at the edge of the cliff, a month and a half from this hypothetical date of October 31, 2019, with an attitude that doesn't belong to us. Will the United Kingdom jump or step back? We also lived a very lively week at the British Parliament, which on 4 September 2019 invited everyone to "not rely on the assumption of a third extension requested by the United Kingdom". I would have liked to know your opinion on this point. What is your analysis of the next steps and what will be undertaken? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u10	Minister, Count, first of all we can say that the British chose in 2016 and that democracy is a basic principle that we must respect, but the Brexit will indeed have consequences for our country as well. At the moment it is unpredictable how the Brexit will turn out: will it be a hard or a soft Brexit? Any scenario will in any case have to be well prepared. The impact of both scenarios has just been highlighted, which is very different: 10,000 jobs compared to 42,000 jobs. For us, therefore, good negotiations between the EU and Great Britain are very important. The European Union's attitude is also crucial: the EU must be open to negotiating a decent agreement, because Belgium too has every interest in a good Brexit agreement and we must certainly limit the loss of jobs in our country. Minister, are you prepared to encourage the EU to continue negotiations until a decent agreement is reached, so that Britain can withdraw from the EU on 31 October? We feel that Britain is often hitting a njet within the EU, which makes an unpredictable, hard Brexit de facto more likely. Good communication with companies is also very important. There was also talk of European aid funds that would be made available. This represents EUR 750 million twice for the whole of Europe. However, if this is shared among the various countries, it will not be so much. I can only hope that these funds will go as far as possible to the countries affected, to which Belgium belongs, hence my question, Mr Minister, how we will guide companies on aid measures and what the conditions for granting them will be. In addition to the financial resources made available by the EU, I would like to ask whether we ourselves in our country provide financial support for the affected companies. Finally, every disadvantage also has its advantage. There are also companies that will make the crossing and settle here. Have we also taken into account the potential impact of this? Was those figures taken into account, for example, compared to the loss of jobs in case of a soft brexit? What would the total picture look like?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u11	Minister, Mr.President of the Brexit High Level Group, first of all, I would like to thank you for this state of affairs. As you pointed out, Minister, the United Kingdom is Belgium's fourth largest trading partner: thousands of companies – mainly SMEs – export overseas, especially in the chemicals, agri-food, textile and synthetic materials sectors. The impact is worrying, targeting 42,000 jobs – or 2.3% of GDP; that's not nothing. In fact, the whole of Western Europe is affected. Without agreement, trade relations between the United Kingdom and the Member States of the Union would be governed by the rules of the World Trade Organisation, which are more drastic than those prevailing in the European Union and therefore restrict trade between the two parties. Minister, if I may, I would like to ask you five questions. The first relates to money, which is notoriously the nerve of war. You are referring to a EUR 700 million fund made available to the 27 Member States of the European Union. What does this mean for countries? We realize that this is too tight a budget to help our businesses. What period of time will it take? What are the criteria? Above all, how soon will our companies be able to access this fund? Very concretely, how can we help them benefit from it? We know that bureaucracy – at both the European and the nation-state levels – makes it difficult for them. The effects of Brexit on the Member States will spread not for a year or two, but probably for a decade. Budget negotiations for 2020-2027 are under way on the EU Multiannual Framework. In this context, will money be allocated to prevent the long-term consequences of Brexit? What steps will be taken to boost our exchanges with the United Kingdom? For example, are there plans to send commercial attachés there? My second set of questions relates to agriculture. Phil Hogan, European Commissioner in charge of this matter - and who should become Trade Commissioner in the Von der Leyen team - guaranteed that the agricultural sectors most threatened by a "hard Brexit" could apply for European financial aid. Could you give us more details about this? Will such financial funds be able to support other sectors? The third question: the major European cities have tried over the last three years, since the announcement of this Brexit, to position themselves in order to attract British companies which, for various reasons, will need to have an anchor within the European Union itself. These companies will create jobs and growth. So, is there any idea of how many British companies are seeking to set up or will be relocated to Belgium from the perspective of Brexit? This is my fourth question, Minister. In case of no deal, all goods imported or exported will be subject to more extensive monitoring than today. Most actors ensure that if no agreement is reached, the customs situation will simply become unmanageable. We are talking about endless lines of trucks, and an impossible situation for the transport of fresh food which is perishable by nature. The Customs Service has engaged in recruitment. We know that. However, what other measures are planned to avoid these complications? Last but not least, if I may, fifthly, what about the impact on our colleges and universities? In the field of research, we know that the Erasmus programme has grown to an extraordinary extent over the last 20 years. Of course, the question is not about the movement of people. I will ask that question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but it relates, of course, to the economy that this Erasmus programme generates and its impact on our research. Do you have more details on these five areas? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u12	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the two speakers for the clear explanation we have received here. October 31st is getting close now. We still regret the British's choice to leave the EU because we believe that Brexit is a story of losers. The figures we have seen here clearly show that our country will be hit very hard, much harder than other Member States. It is therefore very important that we prepare ourselves well. In recent years, measures have already been taken to this end, including the creation of the Brexit High Level Group, the Brexit Emergency Act that has been adopted here and also the Impact Scan of a Brexit. So good preparations have already been made, but now it is five to twelve. We hope that there will be clarity soon, because uncertainty gnaws at our companies and employers. We also need clarity for our fellow countrymen, who are staying in the United Kingdom. It has been pointed out several times that the food industry, mechanical engineering and textiles are particularly hard hit. The Impact Scan is a very good tool. If it has already been downloaded 25,000 times, it can be said that this is a success. This downloading is a matter of course, but the question is whether it is prepared. Do you feel that they are going to work effectively to prepare themselves? Is there still a need to step up efforts in certain areas in order to improve the preparation of businesses? However, it is good that this is there and its success proves that it is a good tool. Not only must the companies prepare themselves, but also the government must be ready. It was therefore a good thing that an additional meeting of the Council of Ministers was held and that 450 additional vacancies were opened. Of course, we hope that these vacancies can be filled out quickly, because writing a vacancy is one thing but finding the right people is another. I am therefore curious about the figures on recruitment. We will certainly question the various ministers about that. Especially at the BFSA and customs there must be additional capacity because there will be much more work. It is feared that the additional work of customs will also lead to congestion at the borders of our country. Is that fear justified? If that's the case, how can we fix this? After all, we absolutely must avoid creating chaos with traffic congestion at our borders. Stand still is absolutely bad for trade. Maybe you have a visual on that, too? Can measures be taken to avoid congestion? Even when the Brexit arrives, trade will continue. We cannot just press the pause button and stop trading with the United Kingdom. It will take some time for businesses to adapt and customs will also have to do so. How is this going to be handled in practice? Will there be a kind of transitional period or will there be a tough attitude and the new regime be introduced as soon as the Brexit is in place? How is that going to work anyway? My final question concerns the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the Solidarity Fund. I understand the terms are still in full negotiation. I hope that the Belgian MEPs will all pull the same weight in order to ensure that Belgian companies will certainly be able to claim these funds. I hope that the conditions will be effective for our companies. It is important that we clarify this quickly. It is also important to have sufficient communication about it so that the companies affected and eligible for subsidies are accompanied to get them on hold. Have any measures been taken to accompany them? Finally, there may be one small point of light. It is possible that companies from the United Kingdom are coming to Belgium. Preparations have already been made for this. As chairman, I recall that you took a trip to London with the former Minister of Economy to talk to companies active in the insurance and chemical sectors. We have recently adopted measures to make the industry in Belgium more attractive. For example, the Code of Companies and Associations has been reformed to make our country more attractive to companies. Is there any idea of which companies will come here and what their impact will be? Of course, that would be a bright spot for the Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u13	Mr President, today we are discussing the economic consequences of Brexit. For my group, this exchange of views should also be an opportunity to hold a substantive debate on the future of Europe. On the question of Brexit, let me quote Ken Loach, who, too, opposes Brexit: "I will vote to stay but with a very critical attitude towards the European Union. Because we want another Europe." European specialist Geert Mak said: "If a majority of the British spoke to leave the European Union, it was a revolt against the elite." [[He's right.]] The people who voted for Brexit were fed up with social dumping, the liquidation of their industry, the jobs that are disappearing, because their railway was destroyed by privatization. They were afraid that the same would happen to their health care system. This is the result of Margaret Thatcher's very tough liberal policy in the 1980s and then Tony Blair's policy, which continued to dismantle social rights and public services. For the majority of the British, the European Union did not offer any social alternatives. People everywhere want the same thing: decent jobs, good wages, good health, affordable housing and opportunities for their children. This is not what this European Union brings them, in which British workers see even more competition and social dumping. Indeed, all hard anti-social measures, austerity, privatisation, expenditure standards and budgetary controls are enshrined in the European Treaties and are imposed by the European Commission. As the European Union failed to offer a real social alternative, the British people rejected it. We are talking about the consequences of Brexit, but can we first talk about the causes? Will we continue in this Europe of competition? The PTB wants another Europe, democracy, transparency and solidarity. Rather than social dumping, we need a high European minimum wage and instead of tax havens, we need a European millionaire tax that makes the ultra-rich contribute. What we need is a profound transformation of Europe. This begins with a questioning of the current European treaties in order to be able to break out of the neo-liberal straitjacket. Rather than privatisation and liberalisation, we need public investment in employment, infrastructure and public services. So I am speaking to all the traditional parties: are you ready to get out of this carcan? Minister, to help Belgian companies prepare for the consequences of Brexit, I have the impression that the government is mainly in contact with employers' organisations. Have you ever met and heard from trade union organisations in this context? Are they involved in the discussions? The monitoring report states that Brexit is a losing-losing situation for the economies of the United Kingdom and the European Union. The United Kingdom will be significantly more affected by Brexit than the other 27 members. But some open economies, such as Belgium, will also be severely affected. Since 2008, we have seen how workers have systematically had to pay, in different ways, the consequences of the crises of capitalism. For us, it is clear that the economic consequences of Brexit cannot be a pretext for further attacks on workers' rights, neither here, nor in the United Kingdom, nor elsewhere in Europe. The question is, therefore, what you are going to do to avoid once again that it is the workers who pay the price, in the form of wage cuts, job losses, greater insecurity and insecurity in their work or new savings in public spending. Finally, in the progress report, I was particularly struck by the chapter entitled "Le Brexit, an opportunity to gain market share for Belgian companies". Beyond the questions that can be asked about the logic of competition as such, I would like to know whether, in this context, you have taken into account the impact on workers' working conditions. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank everyone for their presentation. I'll fill in where possible. It is clear that the Belgian GDP will suffer a loss. It is very important that every European country should receive the support that is proportionate to its national product. Belgium has a smaller national product. A larger country could receive more support despite a smaller impact. I think that is very important. It is also clear that there will be job losses. In addition to the loss in turnover for Belgium, this is also a very painful matter, although there may be a bright spot. There are many bottleneck professions in Belgium. The sectors where there will be job losses are apparently known, but perhaps the technicality of the jobs can be looked at. Perhaps we can find a complement there for many bottleneck professions in sectors less affected by the Brexit. These bottlenecks are very difficult to fill in, which often means that there is no turnover either. This would give them more opportunities for growth. I also consider the Solidarity Fund's support for the larger companies which lose over 500 jobs to be important, but I would also like to hear about the professions involved. Perhaps, for example, accountants can be quickly deployed in companies in other sectors. However, I also think it is very important for SMEs to be helped, because they do not employ 500 people. Small subcontractors, who fight every day in the run-up to the Brexit, must also be supported to find the right path, something that is difficult for them. For the rest, I think it is important to ensure that other things, such as standards, can be kept as well as possible and that no unnecessary red tape is created. I'm curious about the opportunities to lure the British companies here. It is also important to prepare for the mobility crisis if borders are not working properly. That will certainly be the case around the ports. For West Flanders it is Zeebrugge. We must prevent all West Flanders from lying flat around Bruges. If things don't go well around Calais, all these highways will be filled quickly. It is therefore important that those logistics players who are not prepared do not present themselves at the borders if they know that they will be in trouble. Go for a soft Brexit. Fight for that! That's my main message.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u15	I think I have heard all the groups and I will give the floor to the Minister and Count Buysse, who can agree among themselves which of them answers which aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u16	That is what we shall do, Mr President, as it should be a good team. Colleague, first of all, I would like to thank you for all the questions. These demonstrate a particularly strong commitment of the Members of Parliament. It is, of course, a very important issue and I suspect that it will not be the last time that we will discuss it in this committee. I will try, together with Mr Buysse, to be as complete as possible in the answers. I shall begin by answering Mr Depraetere's question on an aspect to which colleagues Van Bossuyt, Vanden Burre and Dierick also referred. Competition between the European Member States with regard to attracting foreign investment is, of course, very strong and has been stimulated in the context of the relocation of companies within the Brexit framework. Figures from the NFIA show that the Netherlands has made good use of its assets. According to the Brexit report published by KPMG in March 2019, the removal announcements related to the Brexit are distributed among European countries as follows. Again, these are the latest figures available to us and they date from March 2019. It is about 3 removal announcements to Spain, 7 to Belgium, 28 to Germany, 30 to France, 30 to the Netherlands, 63 to Ireland and 66 to Luxembourg. With regard to communication, the Dutch government has chosen to communicate now. In our country, the Regions have the habit of doing so on an annual basis, at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year. The High Level Group also includes a representative of the Regions, for example from FIT. Last week, in preparation for this sitting, we also discussed this with them. They will transfer the figures when they fit best. Furthermore, the attractiveness of the Netherlands should also be seen in the context of the tax holding statute. The question is how many effective jobs and added value this has brought. It is not because one surrenders a holding company, that one also creates economic activity or employment. There have been figures on this subject in this committee, but some reservations must therefore be made. Anyway, the question was asked about the Belgian figures and we will explain them clearly together with the Regions and the competent authorities at the planned time. As you know, in our country, the Regions are responsible for attracting and promoting foreign investment. That doesn't mean the federal government doesn't play any part in that. However, her role is limited. The FPS Economy is responsible for the secretariat of the External Investment Liaison Cell, which coordinates policy at regional and federal level. Its mission is to raise awareness of investment climate policy makers in Belgium and to maximise synergies between the different governments involved in attracting foreign investment. This unit was already established in 1995, on the basis of a cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Länder. The following federal authorities are represented: the FPS Chancery of the Prime Minister, the FPS Foreign Affairs, the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy. The rotating Presidency is held by the various regions. The FPS Economy does not have official figures of the number of companies that have moved from the United Kingdom to Belgium or of the number of jobs and investments currently added in Belgium. In the context of the reorganisation plans after the Brexit, a number of financial institutions have requested a Belgian licence or extended their activities in Belgium. We do have that list. It's about Lloyd's Insurance Company, QBE Europe, MS Amlin Insurance, Assurance Continentals, Continental Insurance, Ebury Partners Belgium, MoneyGram International, TransferWise and Euroclear. According to the data of the Belgian attraction barometer 2019, published by Ernst & Young, 2018 was a record year for Belgium in terms of attracting foreign direct investment. In total, 278 projects have been added, representing a 29 percent increase compared to 2017, with a job creation of no less than 7,363 additional jobs. Ernst & Young points out that Belgium is against the European trend with this increase. Indeed, the number of investments shows a downward trend in most countries. On the European ranking of foreign investment, Belgium rises by three places to fifth place, leaving the Netherlands behind. According to Ernst & Young, Belgium benefits from the uncertainty created by the Brexit and from the reorganisation of supply chains, which started several years ago across Europe. The number of investment projects in the logistics sector increased by 18%. The number of investment projects related to research and development and the establishment of headquarters more than doubled in 2018. Ernst & Young considers it reasonable to assume that a large part of these projects are Brexit-related. The change in the corporate tax system, which includes in particular the reduction in the nominal corporate tax rate from 29,58 % to 25% by 2020, will further increase the attractiveness of Belgium. So far, my answers to your first questions. I would like to give some other answers. First, I'm gonna go into the recruitments. It is true that the various services, both the FPS Foreign Affairs and the FPS Economy as well as the federal police, the FPS Mobility, the BFSA, customs, etc., have all opened vacancies. We will soon have a Council of Ministers to give the latest state of affairs. With regard to the FPS Economy, I can give you the figures. A total of 21 additional FTEs have been provided, 13 of which have already been recruited and 5 recruitments are ongoing. A lot of questions have been asked about the possibility of a deal, supplemented by the question and the call for a decent deal. I believe that everyone, Belgium and the European Union, is doing their utmost to reach a deal, but, as one says in English, it takes two to tango. If an agreement is to be reached, the partner must also be admissible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u17	Colleagues, everything has been restarted, so I think we can start. The minister's back, too. "Shutdown" appeared on our screen. That is what happens when the government does not give Parliament sufficient resources to ensure its functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u18	Of course, we always do it a little more subtle than the British.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u19	But we still have a Parliament that works.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been asked whether we are fully prepared. There is no need to say that there may be some uncertainties and surprises, but we are prepared to the extent that we can prepare ourselves. In the coming days and weeks, too, we will do everything possible to prepare ourselves further. Our Brexit scan is one of the elements in it. Reference has been made to the European Commission's Brexit scan, but they are complementary and coordinated. What is more, the European Commission has taken our Brexit scan as an example. In addition, there is the Brexit Act. That law is ready and intensive consultations are ongoing with the federations and the private actors, including within the High Level Group. Several colleagues also asked what the potential danger would be at our borders and how we could cope with it if it were to come to that. It is one of the factors of uncertainty that will happen. It is precisely for this reason that we, together with the Netherlands and France, have contacted us for customs cooperation in order to be able to take an outreach approach to Eastern and Central Europe. This approach means that we are trying to get the papers in order before they get into traffic, possibly with goods that have expired and become infected. We have already taken a number of steps in recent days to respond. A question was also asked about the two Funds, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the Solidarity Fund. The Solidarity Fund is normally intended for natural disasters. The government plays an important role in this. The Commission wants to open the fund's objective now, as the Brexit may be a disaster, but not a natural disaster. This is a question of possible co-financing, and there must also be additional funding from the Member State concerned. The total amount should amount to 0.3 % of GNI for Belgium is about 1.4 billion euros, but the European Commission will ultimately co-finance only 5% of that amount. In my view, this is an important issue that we will have to discuss further, in consultation with the Commission and, where appropriate, with the European Parliament. The second is the Globalisation Fund. This is a fund aimed at the companies in which the Regions play an important role. Today, the criterion is that 500 people are fired within the same company. The Commission is open to interpreting the criteria. This can be done, for example, by working in a multisectoral context. Here, too, there is co-financing of up to 60% by the European Commission. They asked about the economic impact of this and whether it could be measured exactly. There's definitely an economic impact. The recently published forecasts of the Planning Bureau put a 0.2 percent reduction in economic growth at the forefront. So they do foresee an economic impact, but just how strong it will be today is still watching coffee. The KU Leuven report has also shown this. One speaks of a broad gap - from a previously limited negative impact to a strong impact. This will depend on the finality. Are we going effectively to a no-deal and how will Britain behave afterwards? The impact of this is not yet exactly to be estimated. They also wanted to know whether Britain was prepared for a no-deal. For this I would like to refer to the report Operation Yellowhammer. They themselves made an assessment and allocated a budget of £4 billion to cope with the consequences of the Brexit. I have the feeling that a lot of companies have already anticipated the turbulence that will happen in the past few months and years. They have already moved business units or holding companies, or in some way anticipate what will come in terms of staff and strategy. The question of trade relations is a very good question. Everything will, of course, depend on the final agreement. Do we have to leave a no-deal or will we be able to come to some kind of deal? What's it gonna look like? What will be the transition periods? Theresa May's agreement also means that future trade relations will have to be negotiated. In all cases, that will be the case. A question has been asked about the flexibility and mutual recognition of products at European level. This is something that is regulated at European level. There is the element of preparing for a certain amount of speculation by the European Union. A no-deal will have serious consequences. Nor can we undo these consequences. Since December 2017, 93 technical advice to stakeholders and 5 communications on preparation have been published by the European Commission. 19 legislative proposals have been adopted and domain-oriented and general technical seminars are organised on a regular basis. So there is a lot of preparation there, but the ultimate answers will depend initially on the framework that is being put forward. A question from Mr. Vanden Burre was about SMEs and the initiatives that Minister Ducrame has taken on them. The latter complement the ones we have taken. Within the FPS Economy, therefore, it is of course ensured that these are fully aligned. I have already mentioned the trade agreements and the possible impact. I would just like to look at the various points that have been raised. A question has been asked about the Erasmus project and its consequences. The current Erasmus programme participants will be able to continue to benefit from their ongoing learning mobility activities involving the United Kingdom in a no-deal, provided that the programme was launched before the Brexit. In doing so, the European Union will continue to finance the Erasmus project in this context, provided that the United Kingdom also complies with its further financial commitments. There was a question about information dissemination. Many information sessions are organised by the Chambers of Commerce, FIT and the FPS Economy. That's what happens in most provinces. FIT, for example, has planned two Brexitinfo sessions in Flanders, together with UNIZO, on 1 October and on 3 October, where the customs and transport sectors will also be covered. In the framework of the Belgian Ports and Industry Days in Zeebrugge on 1 October an information session is also planned. Information gathering is therefore constantly taking place as far as possible, in order to mobilise the various actors. There was a question about the application. Suppose on 1 November we are faced with a no-deal, how do customs and others deal with it? They will, of course, depart from the good faith shown. Customs has a certain finality, namely control, ensuring that rules are respected and that abuses are prevented. Good will will be reckoned with. If it turns out that a number of formalities are not quite in order, which are not the result of wanting to respect rules but which are the result of the Brexit and unclearness, then I assume that the services will show the necessary flexibility. I would like to make one final point to the colleague of the Socialist Party of Labour. In Belgium, as well as with the United Kingdom, my predecessor has consulted the trade unions to look at the possible consequences and to see how we are best able to deal with them. We will continue to do so in the future. We are not going to convince each other, ideologically, of the usefulness or failure of the free market and free trade. However, the economic impact of such decisions shows that free trade has generally brought more prosperity, created more jobs and reduced poverty. So the file is actually a bad file for bringing an ideological story on the subject. After all, the single market has taught us a great deal in recent years and decades in terms of economic growth, jobs, prosperity and stability. The paradox is that we must now prepare ourselves for a decision which is fundamentally trying to counter it. Mr President, Mr Paul Buysse will now, if he so wishes, take the floor to give further additions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u21	You may, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be extremely brief. After all, Minister Beke explained the essentials. I would like to make a few comments. First of all, it is inconceivablely difficult to give you a clear, clear and clear view of the consequences that the Brexit will unmistakably have. The Brexit is not a win-win situation but a lose-lose situation. I have a friend in London who was Minister of Aid for Europe. I called him after the referendum and asked him, "David, what's happening?'. He replied, "It's a bloody disaster." A country cannot go to such a historically important event unprepared than we have seen today. It is therefore very difficult to provide a pragmatic, clear and well-ecologically underline answer to many of the pertinent questions. After all, I am impressed by the questions I have received. The Minister replied to the question about the new activities. However, we are also faced with companies coming to Belgium, but we are calling for their arrival not yet to be made public. We took stock of them three or four days ago, I believe last Thursday. We were given the figures at that time. We do not need to blush, especially in view of the fact that Belgium is already the seat of the European Community, of NATO, and of all the other international organizations present here. The question about intellectual property is very pertinent. This will become clear when the discussions continue to evolve and as soon as we know what position the United Kingdom is taking in relation to our position. It is therefore difficult to answer that question now. What do the British entrepreneurs think? That's another pertinent question. I made a very short trip to London, which lasted exactly two days, with a member of the cabinet and with the minister. It was very tiring. We spoke to five ministers. We've done the topo. Entrepreneurs are rabid. They are very dissatisfied – and the word is weak – with the attitude of their government and the political elite. They try to do exactly as we do, almost copy conform in several areas. Unfortunately, the political world probably does not listen to them. Ma'am, you asked a question about Zeebrugge. Joachim Coens is taking part in our meeting. No one keeps their finger on the wrist better than Joachim. Finally, on the sectors. Once there was news of the referendum, we invited the main sectors. Have we invited the large companies that were active in the sectors we identified as being very important? We had these contacts in camera and we tried to get all the information on the Belgian side. Subsequently, we held a meeting with all those who wanted to participate. We have targeted these sectors because they are particularly vulnerable. That is why we first invited the entrepreneurs of these sectors to work with them to set up a policy. The enthusiasm was enormous. You should know that at those 14 meetings, no one was ever absent. One time someone stayed away because his wife had just given birth to a beautiful baby, which I accepted as an excuse, toute blague à part. Everyone else was present at those 14 meetings. On the day of the referendum, I got a call from my bed at 6:00. We called the group together at 5:00 p.m. Well, at 5:00 p.m., everyone was there. I am not part of politics, I am standless, but this presence proves that politics can be very dynamic and very proactive. I thank Minister Beke for his support. I can tell you that three or four days after the reshuffle, when Kris Peeters went to Europe, I received an invitation from the newly appointed minister. We then, together with Kris Peeters and a number of other people, brainstormed further to conclude that we are continuing the group dynamically and passionately. Thank you, Mr Beke.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u23	Thank you for your answers. The last word is for Parliament. Let me see who else wants to replicate. We will follow the same order as before.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u24	Minister, Mr Buysse, I would like to thank you both for your answers. There are, of course, a lot of questions. I think your explanation has been very helpful to us, the members of this committee. Of course, it is impossible to fully prepare ourselves for what will happen in the coming months, as we all know very well, but I am glad that many steps are already being taken to prepare ourselves as well as possible. Mr Minister, you say that the figures of the companies crossing the border are very difficult to compare with the Dutch figures. I understand this is not so obvious. But measuring is knowing, so it seems to me relevant that these figures are kept as detailed as possible. I think that is the only way to prepare ourselves for what is to come. Finally, I have heard few answers to the questions about the impact on consumers, the impact on prices and the supply of products. With regard to the possible consequences of the Brexit, we are looking very quickly at the impact on companies, which is very important, but the impact on consumers is at least as important for my group. I hope that does not mean that you are not doing this and that several measures are already in place in case of a no-deal. I look forward to more information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u25	Can you answer that immediately, Minister? That might be easier for the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u26	Of course, companies are particularly important, but that is primarily a regional competence. The regional competent services will also communicate about this when they consider that it is necessary to communicate. This will probably be at the end of 2019 or early 2020, but it is not the case that we would not pay attention to this or that this will not be screened, together with the Regions. As far as European consumers are concerned, the impact on consumers will not be so much a shortage of products. This is different for the British consumer, where the problem of imports arises. A possible impact, especially in the first days, could be in ports and airports. There the consumer may feel the Brexit. It has more to do with services and less with products.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u27	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u28	Minister, you mentioned the potential impact on consumers, but I believe that the price of products can also increase. If there is a no-dealbrexit, that means customs controls and re-import and export tariffs. Take the example of BMW: pieces of BMWs often come from the UK, a bumper, for example, but they will have to pay certain rates, which will be passed on to the consumer. As far as the European Solidarity Fund is concerned, you said that the criterion for receiving funds from it is a dismissal of at least 500 people in a company. However, I fear for our companies, because we have very few companies of this size. We mainly have SMEs. I see that money is mainly going to the big countries, a fear that I have just expressed. Other criteria should be considered in this context, for example loss of a certain percentage of GDP or job losses compared to the number of jobs available. In my view, these are much more objective criteria for the countries affected than a resignation of 500 people in a company. To what extent can it be argued at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u29	I believe you mean the Globalisation Fund, not the Solidarity Fund. This is an effective issue that we need to discuss with Europe. How scary or how broad do we want to apply it? How flexible or how strict do you want to be? Will and can we also broaden it? The last word on this has not yet been said, but, if necessary, we certainly need to talk about it. Perhaps we can also discuss this with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u30	These could be good questions for the Commissioners when they come to the European Parliament to pass their exams. Maybe we should give our colleagues some inspiration there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u31	Mr President, I thank the Minister and Mr Buysse for their answers. At this point, we share the same expectation for the coming weeks. My group will of course relay the political will for a more in-depth dialogue to its counterparts in the European Parliament. That said, we know how difficult it is to measure the direct impact of Brexit on people's daily lives. I therefore propose a further exchange of views after 31 October. We could also hear the UCM as well as the trade unions and consumer associations like Test-Achats and thus know exactly how they feel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u32	We shall look into this later in the course of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u33	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Buysse for the elements of their response. I am somewhat frustrated about the number of questions asked and the few answers that have been provided. However, on an exceptional basis, I will not hold you to it, because after the explanation given to us both in the preamble and afterwards, we are well aware of the difficulty of answering precisely, today, questions which were sometimes very technical. Unfortunately for us and perhaps even more downstream for consumers and citizens, an artistic blurry remains. That's not reassuring. Among my many questions, I asked you about the consequences in the very short term. Minister, you mentioned one or the other. But here too, I have the impression that we have not been at the end of the predictability in terms of short-term consequences and that we have really gone into the long term. Mr President, the surplus will be discussed earlier, including the order of business. I believe, however, that it is essential to be able to meet again on the basis of current events. There are two key moments: the European Summit of 17 and 18 October 2019 and the hypothetical Brexit day of 31 October 2019. I invite you to remain very attentive to developments in the news so that we can see ourselves in connection with these two important meetings, with, I hope, more questions and a slightly clearer overview of the Brexit imbroglio.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u34	We will discuss it later, but of course I believe that we should be able to play ball with our committee shortly if necessary. In the meantime, oral questions can also be asked, if there are very specific questions about the Brexit. The committees shall begin their normal work and oral and written questions may always be submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u35	Minister, I find your answer on encouraging European leaders to reach an agreement rather lean. You say it takes two to tango and that's true of course. However, I do not think that the willingness of European politicians to negotiate further and reach an agreement is very great. We can say that there is a degree of resentment in Europe for the democratic choice made by the British. Europe wants to set an example very clearly and is afraid that more countries will follow. That seems to me to be more important than our economy. That's just the whole issue. When it comes to reaching an agreement, we are all about the hot stuff, but we are blaming the British. Europe clearly has a problem with democracy and cannot stand its loss. That only makes the negotiations much more difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u36	Mr President, I thank the Minister and the Chairman of the High Level Group on Brexit for their answers. I want to summarize the current situation with two proverbs. One who says that to govern is to foresee; the other who says that to the impossible, no one is bound. I have the impression that we are all in the middle of these two maxims, because of the many uncertainties mentioned earlier. Mr. Count speaks of disaster and says we're all going to lose. These predictions are extremely worrying for our consumers and businesses. Although the Ernst & Young study you mentioned – it would be interesting if we could analyse it in detail – is rather positive, since Belgium is taking advantage of this uncertainty at the moment – with the creation of 6,300 jobs and 278 investment projects – it will nevertheless be necessary to speak with European bodies, regardless of the level of competence, in order for them to tell us quickly what concrete aid will be implemented in the coming years, in addition to the Solidarity Fund. I think the Brexit is going to be felt on a ten-year horizon. While we are discussing the preparation of the European Union's 2020-2027 budget, we will really need more information to do our job, reassuring Belgian businesses and consumers about the real impact of this Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u37	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and Count Buysse for the extensive information and the answers we have received. It is clear that a lot of preparations have been made in recent years, but we will not see until after 31 October whether we are properly prepared and how the situation will evolve. It will be important that guidance and follow-up be continued and that, as soon as something happens, the ball can be played very briefly. I hope that we will soon be able to get feedback on this. I am convinced that we will often talk about the Brexit here. So this is definitely being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u38	[[Minister, I have heard the answer you gave us.]] I take note of the fact that you have met with trade union organizations in England. I'm waiting for a report on this. Excuse us, but we do not have the same vision of social Europe. You have a euphoric vision, but we don't share it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u39	I just want to stress that we need to look again at the bottlenecks in terms of job losses and job switch. Perhaps one could study which jobs could lead to an increase in turnover in another sector, to look at it positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-16-55-commissie-ic008x.u40	This will enable us to conclude this exchange of views. I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Buysse for their explanation. It will certainly not be the last time we address this issue.
