ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u1	The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u2	On behalf of my group, I nominate Mr Patrick Dewael as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u3	On behalf of my group, I propose Mr Van Peel as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u4	Are there any other candidates? [[No.]] Then I note that Mrs Van Peel and I are candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u5	Mr President, I would like to explain my group's voting behaviour, because we want to be very transparent about it. We take note of the fact that in the meantime there are two candidates for the temporary presidency. The 21 members of our group Ecolo-Green will wholeheartedly support Mr Dewael's candidacy. There are two reasons for this, which I would like to share with the hemisphere. First of all, our group greatly appreciated the way in which Mr Dewael managed Parliament's opening meeting. He did so in response to questions and concerns that lived not only with our group but also with many progressive and democratic forces in the hemisphere. Secondly, let us call a cat a cat: this vote and the fact that there are only two candidates today is the result of consultation. There were also other good candidates, such as Mr Verherstraeten and Mr Van der Straeten, a bridge builder, someone with a lot of parliamentary kilometres on the counter. Nevertheless, we have chosen to seek a consensus candidate and to support it, because we believe that this way the Chamber can show the way. Belgian politics need consensus and cooperation. Hence our support for Mr Dewael and our commitment to contribute in the coming months to a properly functioning Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u6	As the number of candidates exceeds the number of places to be filled, a ballot should be taken. Since the number of candidates exceeds the number of places to go, we must take a vote. For the purposes of Article 58, No. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, the youngest two members of the Chamber keep the call for names. Pursuant to Rule 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the two youngest members make the roll call. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? Thus shall be done. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. I would like to remind you that only ballot papers which mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more candidates than there are any seats to be filled are invalid. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. Are invalid votes cast on a larger number of candidates than there are vacant seats. I invite the youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u7	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. The vote is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have to suspend the sitting for a moment, pending the outcome of the vote. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u8	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u9	The result of the election for the President's appointment is as follows: These are the results of the secret ballot for the appointment of the President: Votes 143 Votants Blank or invalid 1 White or invalid Valid 142 Valables Perfect majority 72 Absolute majority Mr. Patrick Dewael obtained 101 votes. Mr Patrick Dewael has received 101 votes. Ms. Valerie Van Peel obtained 41 votes. Mrs Valerie Van Peel has received 41 votes. Mr Patrick Dewael, who obtained 101 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was elected as President. Since Mr Patrick Dewael obtained 101 votes, i.e. the absolute majority, I pronounce him President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u10	So I can invite myself to sit down with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your confidence. It is an honor to chair the Chamber, the House of Democracy. Let me be clear: I will be chairman of the full Chamber, of all political groups, and every voice will be heard. Colleagues, we are in a turbulent period, or should I speak of wind silence rather? The voter didn't shake the cards very well. There is currently no prospect of rapid government formation. The outgoing government in current cases has no majority in Parliament. This means that a very important role and responsibility lies with us. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to exercise our power of control rigorously, even this summer, if necessary. The committees will begin their work in September. The newly constituted House can fully carry out the legislative work. But this freedom goes hand in hand with budgetary responsibility. The aim cannot be to let the budget derail further. That is why I would like to propose that we call on the Court of Auditors to assess the quantified impact of the proposed legislation. Colleagues, we must not confine ourselves to daily politics. There is sometimes a perception that Parliament would only be dealing with the delusion of the day. I believe that differences of opinion are fundamental in a democracy. Each Member must be able to decide on hot issues, but we in Parliament must also have a long-term vision. How do we tackle global warming? What role does our country play internationally? How do we make our pensions sustainable? Let us also have debates on this, provide solutions for tomorrow and draw up long-term projects to restore confidence in politics. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years our Parliament has evolved over time, and that was necessary. But let us be honest, we must continue and accelerate this modernization. Let me give you some examples. We must keep the current classification of committees under review. For example, one of the committees still bears 'education' and 'agriculture' in its name, although these powers have largely been transferred to the Länder. There are new themes such as digitisation, which in turn are very little visible. Climate policy, another example, is spread across different committees, such as migration, nationality or social security. This can be more logical and I think that a re-location could benefit our debates and our workings. I am also thinking of digitisation and more transparency. Opening up more and more and reaching out to a wide audience. We must continue to deploy citizen participation, which has also already been foreseen by the Political Renewal Working Group. It is now up to us to put this into practice, so that citizens can launch and support online petitions, which can then be discussed in a debate in this Parliament itself. Colleagues, the government formation promises to be a very difficult task. Our country is entitled to a fully-fledged and forceful government. I would once again like to thank the Chamber for its confidence. I would also like to thank the candidates who have presented themselves for the Presidency. There were several candidates, but I know all three. We are talking about three very handsome thoroughbred Members of Parliament. One candidate has retained her candidacy until the finish. The other two candidates, who have withdrawn, also have my full appreciation. I would therefore like to thank them from here on. As I said, in anticipation of a fully-fledged and decisive government, the Chamber has already assumed its full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u12	The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. In accordance with Rules 3, No 1 and 158, No 1 of the Rules of Procedure, on the understanding that the Presidency is taken into account for the assignment of these functions, we shall appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many appointments as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau. In accordance with Articles 3, No. 1, and 158, No. 1 of the Rules of Procedure include the Presidency in the allocation of these posts and we appoint three Vice-Presidents and as many members as necessary so that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau. Therefore, we proceed with the appointment in the following order: - 1 member of the N-VA group; - 1 member of the Ecolo-Groen group; - 1 member of the PS group - 1 member of the Vlaams Belang group; - 1 member of the MR group; - 1 member of the N-VA group; - 1 member of the CD&V group; - 1 member of the PVDA-PTB group. Consequently, we shall appoint in the following order: - one member of the N-VA group; - 1 member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; - 1 member of the PS Group; - 1 member of the Flemish Interest Group; - 1 member of the MR Group; - one member of the N-VA group; - 1 CD&V-fractie lid van; - 1 member of the PVDA-PTB Group. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? - the N-VA Group proposes Ms Valerie Van Peel as Vice-President - the Ecolo-Groen Group proposes Ms Cécile Thibaut as Vice-President - the PS Group proposes Mr Frédéric Daerden as Vice-President - the N-VA Group proposes Ms Valerie Van Peel as Vice-President - the Ecolo Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance proposes that Mrs Cécile Thibaut be Vice-President - the PS Group proposes Mr Frédéric Daerden as Vice-President I declare Ms. Valerie Van Peel and Ms. Cécile Thibaut and Mr. Frédéric Daerden elected as Vice-Presidents of the House. I declare Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mrs Cécile Thibaut and Mr Frédéric Daerden elected Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u13	- the Vlaams Belang Group proposes Mr Tom Van Grieken as a member of the Bureau - the MR Group proposes Mr Philippe Goffin as a member of the Bureau - the N-VA Group proposes Mr Sander Loones as a member of the Bureau - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Nahima Lanjri as a member of the Bureau - the PVDA-PTB Group proposes Mr Marco Van Hees as a member of the Bureau - the Flemish Interest Group proposes Mr Tom Van Grieken as a member of the Bureau - the MR Group proposes Mr Philippe Goffin as a member of the Bureau - the N-VA Group proposes Mr Sander Loones as a member of the Bureau - the CD&V Group proposes Ms Nahima Lanjri as a member of the Bureau - the PVDA-PTB Group proposes Mr Marco Van Hees as a member of the Bureau I declare Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Mr. Tom Van Grieken, Philippe Goffin, Sander Loones and Marco Van Hees as members of the House Bureau. I declare Mrs Nahima Lanjri and Mr Tom Van Grieken, Philippe Goffin, Sander Loones and Marco Van Hees elected members of the Bureau of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u14	The following members of the Bureau are also members of the Bureau: - former Presidents, members of the House, in this case Mr. André Flahaut; - the presidents of the political groups: - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members. I give the floor to the chairpersons of the sp.a and cdH groups for the appointment of an associate member. The Office shall also include: - former Presidents, Member of the Chamber, in this case Mr André Flahaut; - the chairmen of the political groups: . Mr Peter De Roover, Chairman of the N-VA Group; . Mr Kristof Calvo, Chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; . Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Chairman of the PS Group; . Ms Barbara Pas, President of the Flemish Interest Group; . Mr David Clarinval, Chairman of the MR Group; . Mr Servais Verherstraeten, Chairman of the CD&V Group; . Ms Meryame Kitir, Chairman of the sp.a Group; . Ms Catherine Fonck, Chairman of the CdH Group; . Mr Raoul Hedebouw, Chairman of the PVDA-PTB Group; For my group, another member will be added by a vacancy which has arisen. - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who do not have a member of the Bureau. I give the floor to the Chairmen of the Spa and CDH groups to appoint an additional member.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u15	Mr President, we are proposing Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u16	Mr President, we propose Mr Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u17	I declare Messrs. Joris Vandenbroucke and Georges Dallemagne as associate members of the Bureau. I declare Mr Vandenbroucke and Mr Georges Dallemage elected members of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u18	That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnisgesetzt worden.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u19	Pursuant to Article 43 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, the Chamber shall decide on the validity of the electoral operations and on any complaints brought on the basis of the provisions of the aforementioned Law. In accordance with Article 43 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, the Court of Justice shall rule on the validity of the electoral procedures and any objections raised pursuant to the provisions of this Act. I propose that you entrust the examination of these duties to a special committee of seven members composed by lot. I propose that these assignments be entrusted to a special committee of seven members, composed by lot. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. We shall now proceed to the drawing of lots of the names of the seven members of this special committee. We shall now proceed to the drawing up of the names of the seven members of this special committee. Mr Emmanuel Burton, Ms Katleen Bury, MM. Marc Goblet, Koen Geens, Gilles Vanden Burre, Roberto D'Amico and Tim Vandeput are appointed members of the said Commission. Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mrs Katleen Bury, Mr Marc Goblet, Mr Koen Gees, Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Roberto D'Amico and Mr Tim Vandeput were appointed members of this committee. I propose that we have a short suspension so that the seven designated Members can carry out their duties. The meeting will take place in committee room 2. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u20	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. I give the floor to Mrs Katleen Bury, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the validity of election operations and complaints relating to the European elections of 26 May 2019. I give the floor to Mrs Katleen Bury, rapporteur of the special committee responsible for examining the validity of the electoral procedures and the objections relating to the European elections of 26 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u21	Your committee was instructed by the plenary session on Thursday 27 June 2019 to communicate today, pursuant to Article 43 of the Law of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament, its conclusions on the validity of the electoral operations of 26 May 2019 as regards both the elected members of the European Parliament and their alternates. Today, Thursday 27 June 2019, your committee was instructed by the plenary to communicate its conclusions on the validity of the electoral process of 26 May 2019, both as regards the elected effective Members of the European Parliament and as regards their successors, pursuant to Article 43 of the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament. At its meeting on 27 June 2019, your commission took note of the minutes of the election, drawn up and signed respectively by the members of the main offices of the Dutch electoral college, the French electoral college and the German-speaking electoral college, as well as the summary tables drawn up by the main offices of the province. At its meeting of 27 June 2019, your committee took note of the minutes of the election, drawn up and signed respectively by the members of the head office of the Dutch, French and German-speaking electoral college, as well as of the assembly states, drawn up by the provincial headquarters. Whereas the elected representatives justified the conditions of nationality, enjoyment of civil and political rights, age, residence, linguistic affiliation and registration on a list of Belgian voters, as laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the above-mentioned Act. Since the electors listed below have demonstrated the conditions of nationality, enjoyment of civil and political rights, age, residence and linguistic entitlement and registration on a Belgian electoral list, as laid down in Articles 1 and 41 of the said Act. Whereas no complaints have been lodged against the electoral operations; As no objection was raised against the electoral procedures; Considering that the minutes of the general count of the votes of the main offices of the Dutch, French and German-speaking electoral colleges do not require any comment; In view of the fact that the minutes of the general counting of the votes of the head offices of the Dutch, French and German electoral colleges do not give rise to any comments; Having regard to the report of the College of Experts on the Control of Electronic Voting, Counting and Collection Systems, of 7 June 2019; Having regard to the report of the College of Experts in charge of the audit of the electronic voting and voting system of 7 June 2019; In view of the above, your committee proposes to validate the election of the candidates who have been nominated as members of the European Parliament by: Finally, in view of the foregoing, your committee proposes that the election be valid for the candidates designated as Members of the European Parliament by:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u22	Open Vld - Verhofstadt Guy - Vautmans Hilde N-VA - Bourgeois Geert - Kanko Assita - Van Overtveldt Johan Flemish Interest - Annemans Gerolf - Vatlet Patsy. - The Man Filip. CD&V - Peeters Kris. - Franssen Cindy Green - The Sutter Petra. sp.a. - From Brempt Kathleen
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u23	Open Vld - Verhofstadt Guy - Vautmans Hilde N-VA - Bourgeois Geert - Kanko Assita - Van Overtveldt Johan Flemish Interest - Annemans Gerolf - Vatlet Patsy. - The Man Filip. CD&V - Peeters Kris. - Franssen Cindy Green - The Sutter Petra. sp.a. - From Brempt Kathleen
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u24	Ecolo - Lamberts Philippe - Bricmont Saskia cdH - Lutgen Benoît MR - Chastel Olivier - Frédérique Ries PTB - Botenga Marc PS - Magnette Paul - Arena Maria
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u25	Ecolo - Lamberts Philippe - Bricmont Saskia cdH - Lutgen Benoît MR - Chastel Olivier - Frédérique Ries PTB - Botenga Marc PS - Magnette Paul - Arena Maria
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u26	CSP - Arimont Pascal
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u27	CSP - Arimont Pascal and your committee proposes to validate the election of the following candidates, who have been declared alternates for the European Parliament by: and proposes that your committee declare the election valid of the candidates appointed as successors to the European Parliament by: Dutch Electoral College: Open Vld - The Bleeker Eva. - Stuer Vincent - Kroes Neelie. - Robert Evi - Ants Koen - Schelfhout Bert - Vandermersch Piet N-VA - About more Jeroen - Uyttersprot Katrien - Stroome Matthias. - Descheemaecker Marc - Caelen Anne - Minarikova Luba - Debyser Zeger. Flemish Interest - Vandendriessche Tom - The Gussem Veerle - Hoegaerts Dimitri - Dewinter-Verboven Lutgarde - From Beughem Nadia. - Troubleshooting Philip. - Beckers Rik CD&V - Thinking about it, Tom. - Maris Liesbeth. - Claesen Liesbeth - Tobback Karel - From The Pond Marc. - The Volder Jan - Kamoen Charis. Green - Matthieu Sara - Aelvoet Magda - Oloibiri Violet - Jans Thomas - Borremans Wim - Sabels Jordy - Luyts Jorge sp.a - Soens Tine - Ants Bert - Ulichki Kaoutar - Giovanis Yana - Marte Pereyra Karina - The Spirit Hannes - Vandekerckhove Maxim
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u28	Open Vld - The Bleeker Eva. - Stuer Vincent - Kroes Neelie. - Robert Evi - Ants Koen - Schelfhout Bert - Vandermersch Piet N-VA - About more Jeroen - Uyttersprot Katrien - Stroome Matthias. - Descheemaecker Marc - Caelen Anne - Minarikova Luba - Debyser Zeger. Flemish Interest - Vandendriessche Tom - The Gussem Veerle - Hoegaerts Dimitri - Dewinter-Verboven Lutgarde - From Beughem Nadia. - Troubleshooting Philip. - Beckers Rik CD&V - Thinking about it, Tom. - Maris Liesbeth. - Claesen Liesbeth - Tobback Karel - From The Pond Marc. - The Volder Jan - Kamoen Charis. Green - Matthieu Sara - Aelvoet Magda - Oloibiri Violet - Jans Thomas - Borremans Wim - Sabels Jordy - Luyts Jorge sp.a - Suns Tine - Ants Bert - Ulichki Kaoutar - Giovanis Yana - Marte Pereyra Karina - The Spirit Hannes - Vandekerckhove Maxim
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u29	Ecolo - Dewandre Nicole - Perrin Dominique - Huytebroeck Evelyne - Dupriez Patrick - Torres Cecilia - From Brabandere Luc cdH - From Monceau Cédric - Simonet Marie-Dominique - Langendries Raymond - Schumacher Juliette - Moucheron Savine - Erler Pierre MR - Glatigny Valérie - Dister Christophe - Bertieaux Françoise - Desille Géraldine - Flahaux Jean-Jacques - Jadot Jean-Claude PTB - Verbauwhede Michaël - Terranova Rosa - Muñoz Gomez Elisa - Monique Forget - Casillas Y Gomez Luis - Cavyn Jean-Philippe PS - Tarabella Marc - Ants Laurence - Cetin Nermin - Luongo Cassandra - Hardy Pierre - Niyonzima Haridi
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u30	Ecolo - Dewandre Nicole - Perrin Dominique - Huytebroeck Evelyne - Dupriez Patrick - Torres Cecilia - From Brabandere Luc cdH - From Monceau Cédric - Simonet Marie-Dominique - Langendries Raymond - Schumacher Juliette - Moucheron Savine - Erler Pierre MR - Glatigny Valérie - Dister Christophe - Bertieaux Françoise - Desille Géraldine - Flahaux Jean-Jacques - Jadot Jean-Claude PTB - Verbauwhede Michaël - Terranova Rosa - Muñoz Gomez Elisa - Monique Forget - Casillas Y Gomez Luis - Cavyn Jean-Philippe PS - Tarabella Marc - Ants Laurence - Cetin Nermin - Luongo Cassandra - Hardy Pierre - Niyonzima Haridi
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u31	CSP - Creutz-Vilvoye Patricia - Franzen Daniel - Frank Luc. - Dhur Marion. - Veithen Stefan - Tjandra Shirin
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u32	CSP - Creutz-Vilvoye Patricia - Franzen Daniel - Frank Luc. - Dhur Marion - Veithen Stefan - Tjandra Shirin The list of these elected representatives is contained in parliamentary document DOC 55 13/001, which has been made available to you. These elected representatives are included in the parliamentary document DOC 55 13/001, which was made available to you. It should be noted that Ms Patsy Vatlet, elected from list 9 (Vlaams Belang) of the European Parliament by the Dutch Electoral College, gave up her term of office by letter of 27 May 2019. It is therefore replaced, as the holder, by the first alternate, Mr Tom Vandendriessche. It should be noted that Mrs Patsy Vatlet, elected on list No. 9 (Flemish Interest) by the Dutch Election College, by letter dated 27 May 2019 abandoned its mandate. She will be succeeded as holder by Mr Tom Vandendriessche, first successor. It should also be noted that Mr Paul Magnette, elected from list 17 (PS) member of the European Parliament by the French electoral college, renounces his mandate by letter of 13 June 2019. He shall therefore be replaced, as the holder, by the first alternate, Mr Marc Tarabella. It is also noted that Mr Paul Magnette, elected on list No. 17 (PS) by the French electoral college, by letter dated 13 June 2019, renounced his mandate. He was succeeded by Marc Tarabella, the first successor. It should be noted that, in accordance with Article 7(1) of the European Act of 8 October 1976 on the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, the term of office of a Member of the European Parliament is incompatible with a term of office as a Member of a Government. It should be noted that, in accordance with Article 7 (1) of the European Act of 8 October 1976 concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, the mandate of a Member of the European Parliament is incompatible with a mandate of a member of a government. By Royal Decree of 26 June 2019, Mr Kris Peeters (CD&V) resigned from his post as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, Economy and Consumers, in charge of External Trade, Poverty Reduction, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, from 1 July 2019. By Royal Decree of 26 June 2019, with effect from 1 July 2019, Mr Kris Peeters (CD&V) shall be dismissed from his post as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Work, Economy and Consumers, in charge of Foreign Trade, Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities. By letter of 26 June 2019, Mr Geert Bourgeois (N-VA) informed the President of the Flemish Parliament of his resignation as Minister-President of the Flemish Government and Minister for Foreign Policy and Real Estate, from 1 July 2019. By letter dated 26 June 2019, Mr Geert Bourgeois (N-VA) announced to the President of the Flemish Parliament his resignation as Prime Minister of the Flemish Government, Flemish Minister for Foreign Policy and Real Estate from 1 July 2019. Your committee also proposes to adjourn the admission of Mrs Neelie Kroes, third alternate on the Open Vld list, who has so far not justified the conditions of eligibility. In addition, your committee proposes to postpone the declaration of validity of Mrs Neelie Kroes, third successor to the list of Open Vld (Dutch electoral college), who has not so far proved to fulfil the eligibility conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u33	I shall put to the vote the conclusions of the committee. I shall put the decisions of the committee to the vote. No one's opposed to it? [[No]] They are adopted. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] They're accepted. Accordingly, the Chamber proclaims the validity of the election operations relating to the European elections of 26 May 2019. As a result, the Court declares the electoral procedures applicable to the European elections of 26 May 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u34	We must make the appointment of the members of the Parliamentary Conciliation Committee. We must proceed with the appointment of the members of the parliamentary conciliation committee. Pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall appoint within it 11 members who shall constitute the parliamentary committee for consultation referred to in Article 82 of the Constitution and shall include the Speaker of the Chamber. The Chamber shall appoint an identical number of alternates. Pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber shall appoint eleven permanent members from among its members for the parliamentary conciliation committee referred to in Article 82 of the Constitution, including the President of the Chamber. The Chamber shall appoint the same number of alternates. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments are made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made in accordance with the proportional representation of the political groups. Here is the breakdown: - 2 members of the N-VA group plus 2 alternates; - 2 members of the Ecolo-Groen group plus 2 alternates; - 2 members of the PS group plus 2 alternates; - 1 member of the Vlaams Belang group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the MR group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the CD&V group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the PVDA-PTB group plus 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Open Vld group plus 1 alternate. The breakdown is as follows: - two members of the N-VA Group and two alternates; - two members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and two alternates; - two members of the PS Group and two alternates; - 1 member of the Flemish Interest Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the MR Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the CD&V Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the PVDA-PTB Group and 1 alternate; - 1 member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and 1 alternate. The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates: The group chairmen informed me of the names of their candidates: N-VA - actual members / Permanent members: Peter De Roover, Anneleen Van Bossuyt - alternates / Alternates: Frieda Gijbels, Yngvild Ingels Ecolo-Green - actual members / Permanent members: Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet - alternates / Alternates: Cécile Thibaut, Stefaan Van Hecke PS - actual members / Permanent members: Ahmed Laaouej, Frédéric Daerden - alternates / alternates : Caroline Désir, André Flahaut Flemish Interest - effective member / Permanent member: Barbara Pas - supplyant / alternate: Wouter Vermeersch MR - effective member / Permanent member: David Clarinval - supplyant / alternate: Philippe Goffin CD&V - effective member / Permanent member: Servais Verherstraeten - supplyant / alternate: Nahima Lanjri PVDA-PTB - effective member / Permanent member: Marco Van Hees - supplyant / alternate: Thierry Warmous Open Vld - effective member / Permanent member: Patrick Dewael - supplyant / alternate: Tim Vandenput. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The list of members of the House of Commons who will make up the Parliamentary Concertation Committee will be published in the Summary Record and the Full Report. I hereby declare elected candidates who have been nominated. The list of members of the Chamber who will be part of the parliamentary conciliation committee will be published in the Brief Report and in the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, we must now proceed with the appointment of the members of the standing committees. I would like to inform you of my intention to discuss this at 12 noon next Wednesday at a conference of the group leaders to be convened. I shall make an exception for the Committee on Finance and the Budget. We shall shortly be receiving the draft of the provisional twelfths from the government. I believe that this is scheduled for 4 July. The Committee on Finance and the Budget should then be able to start work immediately, because it is obviously intended that we can vote on this draft before the parliamentary recess, which starts on 21 July, in plenary. I therefore propose that we proceed with the composition of this committee today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u36	The Finance and Budget Committee is composed of 17 effective members (Art. 19, No. 2, Regulation) and 26 alternates (Art. 22, para. 1, Regulation). The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: The Finance and Budget Committee is composed of 17 permanent members (Art. 19, No. 2, Rules of Procedure) and 26 alternates (Rules 2 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure) 22, already. 1, Rules of Procedure). The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: N-VA 3 effectifs/ Permanent members 4 alternates / alternates Ecolo-Green 3 staff / Permanent members 4 alternates / alternates PS 3 staff / Permanent members 4 alternates / alternates Flemish Interest 2 staff / permanent members: 3 alternates / alternates MR 2 staff / Permanent members 3 alternates / alternates CD&V 1 effectif / 1 effectif / 1 permanent member 2 alternates / alternates PVDA-PTB 1 effectif / 1 effectif / 1 permanent member 2 alternates / alternates Open Vld 1 effectif / 1 effectif / 1 permanent member 2 alternates / alternates sp.a. 1 effectif / 1 effectif / 1 permanent member 2 alternates / alternates. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: N-VA - number of staff / Permanent members : Sander Loones, Jan Jambon, Kathleen Depoorter - alternates / alternates : Peter Buysrogge, Christoph D'Haese, Tomas Roggeman, Michael Freilich Ecolo-Green - number of staff / Permanent members : Dieter Vanbesien, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo - alternates / alternates : Albert Vicaire, Marie-Colline Leroy, Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre PS - number of staff / Permanent members: Ahmed Laaouej, Frédéric Daerden, Hugues Bayet - alternates / alternate members: Sophie Thémont, Malik Ben Accour, Patrick Prévot, Christophe Lacroix Flemish Interest - number of staff / Permanent members: Wouter Vermeersch, Erik Gilissen - alternates / Alternates: Steven Creyelman, Reccino Van Lommel, Kurt Ravyts MR - number of staff / Permanent members: Sophie Wilmès, Benoît Piedboeuf - alternates / Alternates: Didier Reynders, David Clarinval, Emmanuel Burton CD&V - effectif/ Permanent member: Servais Verherstraeten - alternates / Alternates: Leen Dierick, Hendrik Bogaert PVDA-PTB - effectif/ Permanent member: Marco Van Hees - alternates / plaatsvervangers: to be designated later/later te bepalen Open Vld - effectif/ permanent member : Christian Leysen - alternates / alternates : Egbert Lachaert, Katja Gabriels sp.a. - actual / permanent member : Jan Bertels - alternates / alternates [[:]] John Crombez, Joris Vandenbroucke. Since the number of candidates corresponds to the number of places to be filled, I declare the candidates nominated elected pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of applications corresponds to the number of places to go, I declare the candidates elected in accordance with Article 157. 6, of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u37	By letter of 18 June 2019, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community announces that it was constituted at its sitting on 17 June 2019. By letter dated 18 June 2019, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at its meeting on 17 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u38	By letter of 18 June 2019, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting. By letter dated 18 June 2019, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-06-27-55-plenair-ip002x.u39	By letter dated 26 June 2019, the Prime Minister transmits a copy of the Royal Order of 26 June 2019 entitled "Government – Resignation". By letter dated 26 June 2019, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 26 June 2019 entitled "Government discharge'. This letter concerns the resignation of Mr Peeters from the government. I have come to the end of our agenda for today. We shall see each other at the Conference of Presidents next Wednesday at 12 noon. At that conference we will also set the date on which the plenary will meet again. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
