ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u1	Mr Minister, you have probably read my question, so I will not read it completely, because, given the circumstances, that would not be helpful. However, I would like to know whether you can clarify whether the administration will follow the current case law or not and, if not, why not. Isn't it better to follow up on this? Do you think there is an impact on the new rules on VAT on short-term rentals? If so, in what way? How do you think you should check whether the active rental of holiday homes is subject to VAT? Is it sufficient that you can be reached by telephone and one can be reached on a whirlwind, for example next door, or is a fully equipped and separate room of reception required? According to you, can the costs of water, electricity, gas and internet be charged for a real consumption or should they be included in the price as a flat rate? Is final cleaning sufficient and should the cost of final cleaning be included in the price? Is it enough to offer a linen package, or should it be taken away? Is there a difference or is it separately settled or not? Do you think that a breakfast, barbecue or stuffed fridge can be provided at the customer's request?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u2	Mr Van Peteghem, the provision of accommodation in hotels or sectors with similar functions is excluded from the VAT exemption for the rental of immovable property in accordance with the VAT Directive. The definition of sectors with similar functions should be broadly interpreted in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice. According to the Court, the purpose of that provision is to ensure that the temporary provision of accommodation is treated equally in terms of VAT in a way similar to the way it is done in a hotel. The Court's case-law also states that Member States have a margin of discretion to determine which accommodations should be taxed in this way. The question of whether the provision of a room or a holiday home other than that of a hotel company is regarded as a taxed service is indeed a matter of fact. The administrative comments thus define a number of criteria on the basis of which an objective assessment remains possible. A new provision on compulsory VAT on short-term rentals does not apply to residential rentals, regardless of whether they are private or holiday homes. In order to be able to speak of a charged service in terms of providing furnished accommodation similar to what is customary in a hotel, the administrative comment states that the reception and presence on site must be assured for at least a large part of the day and that together with the furnished room or holiday home at a global price at least one of the following additional services must be provided: regular cleaning of the room, provision and replacement of household linen or provision of breakfast. As far as the reception criterion is concerned, it is sufficient, in the light of the factual circumstances of course, for a telephone or digital contact to be possible, in combination with at least one of the other mentioned services. However, the administration is still fully analysing the effects of the judgments cited and the way in which sufficient legal certainty can be created for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u4	Mr President, Minister, Mr Deseyn will be excused today. He has asked, however, to answer his question, along with mine. The UBO Registry was introduced with the fourth European Directive and the law of 18 September 2017. At the end of last year, the implementing decision on the modalities of the UBO register was also published. Since the exchange of the necessary information and the implementation of the system take time, the administration has already granted some delays. From the point of view of practice, I now hear that the UBO register still causes the necessary nervousness, especially with regard to the electronic mandate system. This system was only activated on January 14th and as a deadline to transmit the first information was scheduled for March 31st of this year. However, I hear on the ground that the time limit for putting this right is very tight. Mr Minister, can you clarify whether there have already been discussions with intermediaries and other stakeholders in practice to discuss the implementation of the UBO register and the electronic mandate system? If so, was it also pointed out at that time that the deadline is still tight? Secondly, do you think it would be appropriate to postpone implementation and exchange of information in a correct and, above all, legal way? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, the General Administration of the Treasury contacted the representatives of the economic professions in February 2018 to propose the UBO register. The General Administration of the Treasury has been in regular contact with these representatives since mid-2018 and also after the online publication of the application. The General Administration of the Treasury pays particular attention to this issue and does everything in its power to update the application and adapt it to the needs and feedback received. The technical integration of the mandate module has been operational since 14 January 2019. Meanwhile, the deadline for the information providers to register their UBOs for the first time has also been extended from 31 March to 30 September 2019. A new FAQ will also be published in the course of next week. Although Mr Deseyn is not present, here is the answer to his question. The information on persons who are considered as UBO of an international non-profit organisation is only available in the KBO for the first three categories of UBO, as described in the Law of 18 September 2017. These are more specifically members of the Management Board, persons authorised to represent associations and persons responsible for the day-to-day management of associations. For the purpose of administrative simplification and in accordance with the only-once principle, these data can be automatically charged into the UBO register and stored after validation of the legal representative of the non-profit organisation. The two UBO categories which are not available in the FBO and are therefore still to be transmitted to the register are the natural persons; or, under certain conditions, the category of natural persons in whose interest the non-profit organisation was established or is active and the other persons who have ultimate control over the non-profit organisation by other means. No other exemption from the identification and registration of UBOs for non-profit organisations has been established. The information must be provided only once. Any change must be updated within the month. An annual confirmation of the validity of the information is also required. The period of one year starts from the last validation or modification of data in the UBO registry. The General Administration of the Treasury also has monthly contact with Unisoc to help the sector meet its obligations and to adapt the register, whenever possible, to the specific needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I would like to make the following comment. I have noticed that the postponement has been granted since the end of February. I didn't check that out properly. However, it is a good thing that a postponement has been granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u7	Minister, we have recently learned that the Norwegian State Fund, the largest in the world, would withdraw from a series of oil and gas companies. The fund, which has more than USD 1 000 billion to invest, is used by the government to finance, among other things, pensions. The Norwegian Government's decision seems mainly motivated by financial considerations, falling oil prices, and less by climate concerns. In this context, oil companies such as Shell, Total, BP, Chevron and Exxon Mobil, which account for approximately 5.9 % of the stock portfolio, are currently being considered. When we look at Belgium, we get to the FPIM. The annual figures show that FPIM only invests 1%, or 0.8 percent, in sustainable investment, as opposed to 28% for aviation-related investments. So we can certainly also see in Belgium whether we can implement a position switch like in Norway. In addition, the ECB is increasingly being looked at in terms of climate investment. The ECB could focus its quantitative easing programme on green bonds, the so-called Green Bonds. This would, of course, also be a step forward within the current framework within which the ECB operates today. Minister, are you considering, like Norway, a position switch and proposing to the FPIM to invest more in sustainable investment? If so, have you already worked out and/or consulted on this? Can you confirm whether such a position switch has already been included in the renewed management agreement with the FPIM? Are you in favour of calling at European level for the ECB to focus more on Green Bonds within its quantitative easing programme? If not, does this intention not fit within the ECB's mandate? Can you tell me how much Green Bonds Belgium has already put on the market, how much money it has made and what investments it is financing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u8	The FPIM is already active in sustainable investment. Since 2016, the FPIM has invested more than 80 million euros in green initiatives. In addition to financial parameters, the management contract of the FPIM of July 2018 also pays attention to the societal added value of potential investments, including sustainability. The aim is to further develop the criterion of social added value and therefore sustainability in a strategic note and to establish guidelines by April or May 2019. The ECB shall be independent. This is a decision to be taken within the ECB itself. The Green OLO was published on 26 February 2018. This green bond was an ordinary OLO that institutional investors like to subscribe to, but the past has shown that the initial volume of at least 3 billion euros was always feasible for OLOs with a duration of 15 to 20 years. Low interest rates provide sufficient interest for longer maturity rates, which offer higher returns than the shorter-term loans. Of course, additional demand was expected from investors who are specifically looking for green investments. In this way, an amount of EUR 4.5 billion could eventually be achieved. The amounts collected for this Green OLO should be fully spent on specific green projects and expenditure. The first allocation report of the Green OLO will describe in detail what the funds were spent on. The issue was placed at a yield of 1.5 basis points above the rents that could be derived from the secondary market. This is 2.5 basis points less than the usual premium for the first issue of a new OLO. It can therefore be assumed that the difference in interest rates was 2.5 basis points. It was announced that the duration of the Green OLO would be at least 15 and up to 20 years. It eventually became a fifteen-year-old OLO, with due date 2033.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was three questions that we have brought together and all of them have to do with the green investment. The first element about the Federal Participation and Investment Company...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u10	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u11	Mr President, this is my reply. I was surprised. I reviewed the 2017 Annual Report, which contains a pie table. It says 1 %. If one looks at this for all the investments that happen, there are far less than 1% of sustainable investment. If we want to demonstrate that sustainable investment is also effective, we must make it clear in the drawing-up of these tables what is sustainable and, as you yourself say, what has social added value. I suspect that, in the long term, there will be a discussion about what our country is investing in, and then I think that we will not convince people with a table containing 1% of sustainable investment. As far as the ECB and the OLOs are concerned, I am pleased that this has been very successful and I think that we should continue to work on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u12	Minister, public investment has a strong positive impact on economic activity and on the productive potential of our economy. Public investment in Belgium and in many other countries is at a very low level. From recent figures I have requested, I learn that we are disinvesting rather than investing. Your predecessor always argued in favour of reviewing the way public investment is taken into account in the application of the European budgetary rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. A first proposal aimed at reducing in the short term the strict conditions for the investment clause in the Stability and Growth Pact. A second proposal aimed to revise in the medium term the way public investment is charged within the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact and to replace investment expenditure by depreciation on public investment when determining the budgetary balance to be taken into account. Minister, what is Belgium's position on European fora? At which meetings was the proposal discussed? Which Member States were in favour of the first proposal? Which Member States were in favour of the second proposal? What rules should be amended for the first proposal and for the second proposal? What is the expected timeline of the implementation of the changes? How would the market value and lifetime of public infrastructure be quantified? If a public investment can be written off over a longer period, this applies to the entire stock of public infrastructure. What is the estimated current stock of infrastructure? What would be the impact for Belgium of an extension of the write-down rules? Of course, I'm just asking for an estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u13	Belgium has always considered that both public and private investment play an important role in potential economic growth. The level of public investment in particular has proved to be a problem in recent years. It is therefore important to ensure a constant increase in the level of investment. The first proposal refers to the changes to the terms of the investment clause, so that it could also be used in economically better times. On a proposal from the European Council, the Commission introduced the investment clause in January 2015 to create more room for investment. Most Member States' economies were then affected by the effects of the crisis. One of the conditions for enjoying the investment clause means that the output gap must be very negative, which is not currently the case for our country and for many other Member States. The second proposal refers to the depreciation rules for public investments applicable under the European system of accounts. However, those depreciation rules are based on the international depreciation rules, which state that for public investments depreciation must take place within the construction period and cannot therefore, as for companies, be written off over a longer period. Belgium has asked other Member States and Eurostat whether they would agree to an adaptation of the rules. In the course of 2017, 2018 and 2019, Belgium submitted its proposals to the European Commission, Eurostat and the other Member States in a formal and informal manner. This was usually done within the framework of the Economic and Financial Committee and its sub-committees, as well as in contacts between members of the government and other Member States, the European Commission and Eurostat, and in contacts between Belgian embassies in the Member States. The proposals are also part of the recommendations under the National Pact for Strategic Investments. These were repeated at the March 2019 Ecofin Council during the Belgian presentation. All formal and informal contacts with Member States and institutions show that support for the Belgian proposals is very limited. Only Slovenia, France and Spain would be prepared to support Belgium. Most other Member States are more in favour of stricter rules and want less flexibility. Given the limited support for the Belgian proposals, it seems unlikely that both the investment clause and the depreciation rules will be changed. There is no question of a timetable at the moment. As far as investment clauses are concerned, there must first be a consensus among the Member States, which is validated by the European Council. Only then can the Commission make a proposal to amend the criteria to benefit from an exception under the investment clause. In terms of depreciation rules, there must also be consensus between Member States. Eurostat will then have to decide whether or not to change the rules. In view of the factors I have just explained, your other questions are not currently being discussed. Moreover, during a discussion with Commissioner Katainen on this subject, he reminded me that our country is the only country asking for this change. Personally, I think there is some logic behind this; we use the rules of cash accounting rather than business accounting. In a company, the notion of profit is an important element, while in a government the notion of profit is actually insignificant. At government level, cash flow reasoning is important. In short, I do understand the reasoning for writing off the investments in this way, but anyone who is familiar with the technique of a government budget realizes that the question does not really apply here. I do not see why one could write off investments in our kind of accounting. That's a personal addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u14	Mr President, your point is correct. The question is indeed how to deal with double accounting and cash accounting. The reason for my proposal is precisely because we want to make an extra injection into our investments and I saw a solution there to make that possible. Our investment pact is based on the fact that we get an exception from the European Commission to make these investments. The fact that we cannot do this now means that there will be no significant source of funding to actually achieve the investment pact.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u15	Mr van Peteghem, there is more flexibility when it comes to real PPPs. It's got to be real PPPs. Of course, it makes sense, but we almost end up in a kind of leasing formula. In that case, it is natural that depreciation should be spread over time. The difficulty is that the Commission does not regard some of the issues that we tried to include in the PPP category as a real PPP.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u17	They had the mouth full of invest, invest, invest. However, according to the National Bank of Belgium's Annual Report 2018, the share of public investment in Belgium decreased by 0,1% in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u18	Mr President, I asked that question a few weeks ago. We're disinvesting right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u19	A whole series of economists, De Grauwe and Moesen genre, states that deficits should be allowed in the light of public investment. The deficit of 3% is therefore permissible in the case of investments. But Europe does not accept that. Moreover, there is the question of what an investment is. It is easy to switch with current expenditure. This opens the way to referring to the achievement of the budget balance ad calendas graecas. Among economists, the 3% standard may now be exceeded, provided that it is for public investment. Europe does not, however, accept that view. That's food for the next few years. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u20	You're going to Flanders. There's plenty of money in the Flemish budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u21	Mr President, Flanders likes to invest when the federal government delivers the money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u22	Mr President, Minister, this is an important subject on which there are many questions in the field. Today, both customs and VAT administrations apply de minimis rules to exempt the import of packages from the VAT obligation if the value of the package is less than 22 euros and the customs obligation if the value of the package is less than 155 euros. In this way, consignments of negligible value can be exempted from VAT and customs formalities on importation into Belgium. These limits have been in place for some time and have been introduced to ease the administrative handling of consignments of limited value for pragmatic reasons. I can believe that this was necessary at the time of brick-and-mortar companies, but now the B2C economy is global and digitization and QR codes have allowed us to order packages in China, for example, and have them sent to Belgium quite cheaply. More and more Belgian retailers complain about this unfair competition with China, especially with companies like Alibaba, AliExpress and so on. Let me give you an example. A Belgian online retailer imports 5 000 small pieces of toys in bulk from Asia via the Antwerp port. The value per piece is 2.5 euros. So the Belgian retailer pays 1 euro each for shipping costs, administrative costs, customs formalities, etc. On top of that, he has to pay 3 euros in bpost to send the small package to the consumer. The Belgian retailer must sell such a toy at 6.5 euros, or 7.87 euros including VAT. You can see the same product available on AliExpress for the price of 2.5 euros. Thus, in principle, the initial value is the same, but AliExpress does not have to pay for the costs of transporting the factory in Shanghai to the Belgian consumer, nor does it have to pay import charges, customs charges and VAT because the de minimis rule applies to each individual package. In this respect, it is much more difficult for the Belgian retailer to compete with mastodons such as Alibaba, AliExpress and so on. I understand that in the area of VAT, it has been decided to reduce the limit value from EUR 22 to EUR 1 from 2021, but that will take almost three years, which is actually a very long time in e-commerce. In this context, I would like to ask you the following, Minister. Firstly, do you agree that a similar reduction in the amount of the border should be provided for for customs costs? If not, why not? If so, when will that decline take effect? Secondly, are you prepared to provide, during the three-year transitional period, that the limit value of EUR 22 per package should be revised in relation to VAT, regardless of whether the bulk consignments enter, via one container, through different containers or through thousands of separate consignments? If not, why not? Thirdly, will you also address this problem at European level so that we can have a uniform policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u23	Mr President, the current and future possibilities for digitisation largely undermine the reasons why exemption thresholds were introduced at the time. If it is possible for VAT and for the introduction of the new OSS system, it should also be possible for import duties. However, such a change of direction would require an adaptation of European Regulation No. Council Regulation (EC) No 186/2009 of 16 November 2009 establishing a Community system of reliefs from customs duty. The whole process of adapting an EU regulation must therefore be completed. As it is binding EU legislation, all EU Member States must therefore agree. Belgium cannot introduce this unilaterally. As in the case of VAT, the legal process will also require the necessary time to develop the necessary IT infrastructure. Customs today ensure that the conditions per individual shipment are respected. All consignments must meet the same conditions in order to benefit from the exemption from VAT. However, account should also be taken of the fact that economies of scale are not prohibited by, for example, grouping individual consignments into one container for transport. This has already been the subject of a judgment by the European Court of Justice in the past. I am prepared to raise this issue at European level, but, as I have already said, unanimity is needed in all Member States in order to change the existing rules in this area or introduce new rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u24	So, Minister, if I understand correctly, are you saying that you cannot lower the value of the exemption? This must be done at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u25	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u26	I can only ask you to do so at European level as much as possible. The example clearly shows that this creates an incredible competitive position that is detrimental to the small retailers in our country, who are trying to survive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1069x.u27	Minister, we are almost at the end of the questions. It is reported that Mr Bogaert is on the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions. I sent my associate there to ask him if he'd join us for questioning. I'll go over our schedule. The following questions are deleted: Debates of the European Parliament 2881 10, by Mrs Jadin, No. Question No 288, by Mr Vanden Burre: Mr De Vriendt, No 29065 29101 by Mrs Van Cauter and No. 29122 by Mrs Schlitz. The following questions are converted into written questions: President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Van den Bergh (Commission); Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh; Mr Van den Bergh Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van That concludes the sitting. You didn't have a large audience for your last performance, Minister.
