ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u2	I have received an amendment to the bill (Mr Benoit Piedboeuf, Mr Vincent Scourneau, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Olivier Chastel) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to increase the amount of tax exemption for volunteers in the public fire brigades and in civil protection, No. 3287/1. I received an amendment to the bill (MM. Benoit Piedboeuf, Vincent Scourneau, Gautier Calomne and David Clarinval, Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Emmanuel Burton, Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mr Philippe Goffin, Ms Kattrin Jadin and Mr Olivier Chastel) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, with a view to increasing the amount of the tax exemption for voluntary firefighters in public fire departments and voluntary civil protection agents, No 3287/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 February 2019, I propose that this amendment be sent to the Finance and Budget Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 February 2019, I propose that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendment in committee. Discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendment in committee. I shall pass the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u3	Mr President, there was indeed an amendment tabled by four parties. We will meet at 3 p.m. in the room Brel. We shall deal with the amendment there and hopefully approve it. I believe that this is not a political problem, not even for Mr Cheron of Ecolo. Then we come back to the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u4	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u5	(Conversation on the banks) Ladies and gentlemen, may I draw your attention to the speaker? They're watching. We're seen. We listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u6	Prime Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate your new Minister for the Interior, Pieter De Crem, on his position on nuclear energy, which he has just announced. Pieter De Crem is, of course, right: we must postpone the nuclear exit, scheduled for 2025 and written down in the law on the nuclear exit, if necessary, and even consider the construction of new nuclear power stations. I fully support him in that. After all, at the moment about half of our energy is imported and our energy bills are constantly rising. There will be questions on the agenda about the social tariff, which will rise again by 22%. It will take government money again to do something about it. We also note that wind turbines and solar panels work mainly on subsidies rather than on wind and solar energy. In this context, a plea for nuclear energy seems to be primarily a plea of common sense. In fact, today's climate classers are arguing again, and a pro-nuclear proposal seems to me to be a good thing, since nuclear energy is climate-neutral. If we had listened less to the climate psychopaths of Green in the past and invested a little more in the third generation of nuclear power stations, including thorium technology, then perhaps we would be much further away now, because we could now provide our own energy in a cheap way and also address the possible climate problem efficiently. Some people think that there is a kind of global thermostat and that by reducing CO2 emissions we ourselves can regulate the temperature on earth, while I believe, like Minister De Crem, that we should deal with what we do understand. That includes demographics, the rising world population. Two billion people added by 2050, leading to climate problems. There is also the fact that we must dare to engage in scientific research, including in the field of nuclear energy, and to put new technologies into practice, including in the field of nuclear energy. We didn't do that in this country, with all the problems of that. That is why I would have liked to have heard from you, Prime Minister, what your reaction is to the proposals, ideas or recommendations of Minister De Crem, who sounded like music to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, during this legislature, a political majority in Parliament adopted the law on the core exit in 2025. That is a decision of Parliament. Secondly, we have also worked with the Länder to provide a perspective for the future with our energy policy. That is our goal with our energy strategy. On the federal level, we have taken many initiatives to show that we are taking responsibility, for example, for investing in a wind farm in the North Sea. There are other concrete examples. We have three goals. The first objective is security of supply. That is a permanent challenge. We have worked hard and successfully over the last few days and weeks, so that we can be sure that we will not have any problems this winter. So much better. Secondly, we are aware that, given the impact on prices and invoices, it is crucial to develop a strategy that takes into account the effects on people's purchasing power and the competitiveness of companies. Thirdly, there is our international commitment. Our aim is to achieve these three goals at the same time, and that is neither easy nor obvious. I am very clear: this government in current cases does not intend to submit an amendment to the legislation in Parliament. However, we intend to do everything we can to ensure that the situation is properly monitored. In particular, it will be the responsibility of the various governments, both the federal government and the governments of the Länder, with different stakeholders, to monitor the situation on a permanent basis, so that we can ensure that the three objectives are achieved. The answer and our position are clear: the government in current cases does not intend to propose an adaptation to the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u8	Minister, I regret your reply. Energy prices are rising and the population has to pay, while we have to get more and more energy from abroad. However, we do not intend to amend the law on the core exit if necessary. That's too bad. If, in recent years and among previous governments, we have invested in new generations of nuclear power stations, in modernising and updating existing nuclear power stations, then today we should not tolerate thousands of climate skating in the streets of our capital city. We would then see them at the place where they should be, namely on the school benches instead of following Green's political agenda. Above all, we would have ensured that we have sufficient energy in this country, which is not the case now. In this way, we could also have ensured that the citizen as the final payer does not suffer from the inability of politics to opt for nuclear energy. We owe this to the Green Group and to all those who are following them. They almost accused us of criminality in the past when we dared to opt for nuclear energy. That is what the population is paying a high price for today. That's very unfortunate. Nuclear energy is not the past, but it is the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's national strike indicates – and it is an euphemism – a ras-le-bol in the head of workers who do not understand that the employer's bank offers them only 0.8% wage increase while the common union front – the three major organisations representing workers – recalls that companies, and the largest of them in particular, receive almost EUR 13 billion per year of wage subsidies. For the common union front, considering these 13 billion euros of wage subsidies, the wage gap is 2.5% in favour of Belgian workers compared to our three neighbouring countries. But the FEB does not want to hear anything and does not want to consider that, when you negotiate, you have to put everything on the table. It is therefore legitimate for the workers to make it known that it is time for you, as mediator, as conciliator, to take the bull by the horns and remind the FEB that it has been served rather well over the last five years and that it is high time that it shares, in another way, the cake of the wealth produced. I would add that our workers are among the most productive on the world scale, that for this reason they show their qualities, they also show that they have made a lot of efforts in the years that have passed. It is therefore legitimate to hear them. Prime Minister, are you actually going to hear the workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday there was action throughout the country. That national strike day was actually ordered two years ago, when a dragon of a law was passed in this House, the adjustments to the 1996 wage bill. It was a delight of bricolage to a law that proved to work well at that time. The aim of this high technology was to ensure that as little of the prosperity as possible returns to the workers, who are working hard every day, but who do not get prospects of a healthy career from this government. Colleagues, I doubt that everyone here is aware of this, but such a strike day is more than just annoying. Perhaps we should also dare to listen to the reasons why these people are taking action. Perhaps the government should dare to listen to the grievances of the people who came out yesterday. Colleagues, for five out of a hundred Belgians, their job does not mean a way out of poverty. Of the 4.6 million hard-working Belgians, 230 000 people are struggling to make ends meet at the end of the month. That is 230 000 young people, single parents and low-wage people. Some here in the hemisphere seem to be implying that those people only have to take half a precarious job. We fit in with these American situations. It must also be done with that misapprehension towards people who do their best every day, despite everything. Here, in this ivory tower, it's easy to talk. Prime Minister, you are the Prime Minister of all Belgians, including those who stopped yesterday. What's your answer to them? How will you ensure that social dialogue can take place again in an appropriate way? How will you give people with a minimum wage a little more breathing space so that they can make ends meet and not live in poverty, even though they do work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's strike was largely followed and it confirms a real social malaise that the movement of yellow vests or other strikes had already expressed. This strike is a reminder because there are deep inequalities in Belgium. Is it worth recalling that 2.3 million Belgians are at risk of poverty or social exclusion? This strike is also part of an international context of drifting from the distribution of workers' growth to shareholders. This drift is less important in our country than in other countries, particularly thanks to certain mechanisms at the heart of which social consultation is at the heart. Your government thought it could ease this social malaise with a tax shift. Wages are increased and replaced by a series of taxes on citizens. You've done nothing to ease this social malaise. Today, this negotiation of an interprofessional agreement is blocked. However, it is imperative that social dialogue be resumed. This is not only in the interests of workers but also of employers. It is also in the interest of all Belgians, because if you do not reach an agreement with the "green vests", the "red vests", the "blue vests"... it is with the yellow vests that you will have to negotiate. It is the responsibility of your government, even a minority, even in everyday affairs, to put oil in the workings and to make every effort to reach a substantial agreement so that it can come into being. Prime Minister, do you have the will? What are you going to do in practice to achieve this? Are you considering a relaxation of the current framework to facilitate an agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the trade unions, the legislature started as it ended, namely with a strike. Five years ago, at the start of the government, it was stopped and yesterday it was again of that. It's interesting to compare the slogans of that time with yesterday's. It seems to those people that nothing has happened in the last five years, that on the contrary our country has become a social cemetery. What caricature, what defeatism, what pessimism. The facts are different. In recent years, 220 000 new jobs have been created in our country and the employment rate in our country has for the first time risen above 70%. Yesterday, too, there were many people who were willing to work because of the actions of some courageous mayors, right, Mr Dewael? The reality is that our country has improved over the last five years, that people's purchasing power has increased and that income has grown. If profits are made, we also believe that people should be able to share in them. That is why we and the government have set up the system of profit premiums, which can benefit 50 000 workers today. When it comes to wage negotiations, it is also about more net wages. The trade unions and the opposition have reduced these debates to 0.8 percent, but what is the reality? The reality is that working people's incomes will rise to 6% over the next two years, thanks to the tax reduction, thanks to the indexation laid down in the law and the wage margin. That denial is populism, that's lies. Mr Prime Minister, we believe that everyone should sit back around the table and talk again, but on one condition, in particular, that the wage bill that this government revised should not be affected. Thanks to that law, we have been able to create so many jobs in recent years. Reverting that law will be without us. Prime Minister, I have two questions for you. How will you ensure that the social partners sit back around the table and come to an agreement? Can you guarantee us that this wage bill will not be violated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u13	Minister, what a day yesterday. There was a loss of 900 million euros yesterday, according to the great patronage. They lost so much wealth yesterday, Minister. The patterns apparently produce the wealth in our country, but if the workers do not work, nothing is produced. It is often said that capital creates wealth, but none of it. On a day like yesterday, people just feel that capital doesn't produce wealth at all. It's the workers who produce the wealth. They said yesterday: give us some more money. Last year there was 17 billion euros in profits for listed companies and a dividend flow of 12.5 billion euros. Part of that money can still go to wages. Please stop talking about that index. That is not an increase in purchasing power. You know that. What is the index for? If prices rise by 4 %, there is an increase in the index by 4 %. This is a real increase in purchasing power. This is the real debate we have here today. I note that the figures are interesting. Last week, we were talking about 0.8% and that figure was going to remain the same. Then arrived the Union of Middle Classes (UCM), and the pressure began to rise. We're going to encourage the workers to continue. The UCM reported a figure of 1.1%. The Planning Office then pointed out that, all accounts made, with indexing, inflation might be a little lower... I see that the figures are relative and that we use the figures that set each other apart. I would really like to encourage the workers to put pressure on the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you must take a stand. Either you continue to support those who go through the excavations - because the profits have never been as high as in recent years - or you take a stand for the workers. And taking a position for the workers means that we must stop ensuring that the policy mixes with what is none of our business, namely wage formation. This aspect must be left to the workers and the employers, who must discuss it, through the struggle if necessary. A law was passed not only in 2017, but also in 1996. I call on all colleagues, including colleagues on the left, to vote in favour of abolishing this 1996 law. The policy does not have to interfere with this, Prime Minister and Minister for Employment. This is an important point. Why are you interfering? Why leave the law of supply and demand for all goods in capitalism, but as regards defense...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u14	Please conclude, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u15	The question is very clear: can the 0.8% carcan be lifted, Prime Minister, and are you going to allow real freedom to negotiate wages, as it should be?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since day 1 of this government agreement four years ago and a few months ago, the top priority has been to consider that social cohesion requires structural reforms for more jobs and investment. I hear the lessons. There are now 220 000 additional jobs, a recovery in investment, a fall in unemployment and an increase in the rate of activity, as had not happened for an extremely long time. These are concrete results. Is everything all right? No, of course not! And we must make every effort to continue to stimulate economic development, strengthen social cohesion and seize the opportunity of climate debate to see how we can create even more values. That is the stakes and responsibility. Secondly, the interprofessional agreement. On day one after the fall of the government, as the first initiative, we organised a meeting with the social partners to ensure, even in current cases, that the welfare envelope of more than EUR 300 million in 2019 and more than EUR 700 million in 2020 is available for distribution among the most difficult people. We have made this commitment, with the support of Parliament, to allow for negotiations. We have seen, by being very involved, with the ministers concerned, including the Minister for Employment, that the trade unions have made the choice to strike. The freedom to strike is guaranteed; in my opinion, the freedom to work must also be guaranteed. Throughout the last few days and hours, we constantly encourage the social partners, employers and trade unions, to get around the table to negotiate. I'm optimistic. I am confident that dialogue can resume soon so that common sense can prevail. In terms of wages, the 1996 reform did contribute to supporting economic activity by reducing our wage disadvantage and promoting the creation of 200,000 jobs. Those who want to dismantle it actually act against employment, against purchasing power by creating jobs, by stimulating economic activity. Finally, I would like to reiterate that in the next few days, I am convinced, the social partners will recover from the table. In addition to the wage margin debate, it must also be possible to consider solutions to gross and net wages. It is also important for the purchasing power of workers. Initiatives are possible in the context of social dialogue, for example in terms of meal vouchers, mobility and participation for the benefit of workers. I once again call on the social partners to be responsible. We will do everything possible to encourage this negotiation so that it guarantees social peace, social calm, economic development and investment capacity. That's our goal. It's far from the many cartoons I've heard. I would also point out that the tax shift is not words in the air. This is an additional 40 euros since 1 January; in four years, one thirteenth to another 14 months for the lowest wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u17	Prime Minister, I don't think you understand the situation. You have before you the FEB, the big boss, which does not admit that, because of your policy, it has received over the last five years more than 18 billion euros caught on the payroll with the index jump and by reductions in the financing of social security: 18 billion taken directly or indirectly in the pocket of the workers! When we remind this great employer that every year he receives EUR 13 billion in wage subsidies, the only thing he answers is that it is not because of the resignation of the government but that it is entitled to that. He also forgets that if he creates wealth, it is also and above all thanks to the workers. Prime Minister, we are asking you for wage justice! The workers have been sufficiently involved in your austerity policy. Big bosses have received enough gifts and blank cheques. Today, it is time to return the wealth produced and part of the cake to the workers! This is scaring your ears, but it is the truth! You have chosen the camp of the great boss, it is time today to remind that workers too are entitled to a fair wage!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, here we go again. We are talking about 220 000 jobs, but you forget to mention that only 50 000 jobs are due to the Michel I administration's policy. Prime Minister, many studies have shown that your government could have done much better. With our proposal, for example, your government could have created 75 000 additional jobs. We're not the only ones who notice that. As far as unemployment benefits are concerned, I can only repeat them, and I have already pointed out here that the expenditure on sickness benefits has never been so high. Never before have so many people had to live on a living wage and never before have so many people come to the food bank in this country. Mr Van Quickenborne, for the workers who have to work for a minimum wage, real income has declined over the past eight years, particularly by 1.7 per cent. In this respect, we are at the very bottom of Europe together with Greece and Germany. That is the reality. These people don't belong at the end of the month, even though they work. Jobs, jobs, jobs, but jobs alone are not enough to get people out of poverty. They also need a decent income. I therefore propose that we finally make a serious effort to raise the minimum wage in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u19	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, let me tell you that it was not the government that created jobs. It's the employers. If you hadn't been there, they would have created them too, because when we look at the 2014 Plan Office projections, they're already the numbers he had given. I'm not saying you didn't do anything. Don't get mad, Prime Minister! We can't hear you, your microphone's not on. I'm not saying you didn't do anything, but there are observations that have to be put on the table. 2.3 million Belgians live below the poverty line. Should we recall that Belgium's goal for 2018 was to reduce this poverty by 380,000 people? However, the figures show that it has increased by 100,000. I have no doubt that the social partners will come back to the table, but the big question is what the government is going to do very concretely. To save our model of social dialogue, we must also allow each of its components to benefit from it. If you turn to the 0.8% standard, I still see that employers are more open. Thus, the Union of Middle Classes has made it clear that it is opening a bargaining space of 1.1%. This also clearly means that this space is possible and recognized today by at least one employers' organization. Prime Minister, wet your jersey because today it is your responsibility and your government's responsibility to finalize an agreement worthy of that name!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I am also hopeful that an agreement will be reached. This is also necessary for social peace in our country and for the prospect of more jobs. In the meantime, Mr President, I hear a bid on the left. The PS gets nervous when the communists start talking. When I hear what is going on, it seems that we want to reverse all the reforms and return to the times of that time. Colleagues, at the time under Mr Di Rupo, the wage margin was 0, with a total wage freeze. That happened under your responsibility! Moreover, there was no tax reduction or tax shift at the time, Mrs Temmerman. It was only about one thing: tax increases. That was the motto back then. We don't want that time back!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u21	Prime Minister, there are two points on which you are silent. Apparently, they're taboo. A first point is the profits, but you simply do not have a counter-argument for them. In 2017, listed companies made 17 billion profits, but that's taboo, nobody says anything about it. It is the political reason why wages can continue to rise, but you cannot answer that. Secondly, why should politics intervene? For three weeks I have been asking the liberals, who are always talking about freedom. However, on one domain you ask that the State intervenes authoritarianly and imposes 0.8 %. That is what the Liberals call one small exception. What the hell is that? You're for freedom, liberals, but then go! We must not intervene at political level; allow the social partners to negotiate. No one has defended any argument for three weeks. Prime Minister, you say you created 209,000 jobs. If we had stayed in the European average, we would have created 255 000. The question that everyone is asking is: what have you undertaken to reduce the average of 40,000 jobs? You're going hard, liberals! No, but it's true: we're below average. You're having a little trouble with the numbers... the MR campaign isn't gonna be fun.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u22	We have to close. Veuillez laisser M. Hedebouw terminer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u23	Yesterday I felt a determination of the workers' base to demand an increase of 2 to 3%. Ministers, you better listen to the people. The latter will not continue to accept that the rich become richer and richer in our country, while the workers become poorer when the pie produced is shared. I therefore ask you to allow the negotiations to go beyond the 2 or 3 % framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, the saga of the thawing of Libyan funds held by a bank in Belgium continues to take on particular dimensions. This constitutes a violation of international law and United Nations Security Council resolutions. In fact, a group of experts provided the Secretary-General of the United Nations with a particularly detailed account of violations of international law. A few hours ago, we learned that, even in Libya, the General Prosecutor's Office had decided to arrest two protagonists - the former President and the current President of the institution benefiting from the release of Libyan funds, the Libyan Investment Authority - the persons under whose presidency the funds were released to the investment fund. Prime Minister, I believe that your government can no longer simply say that this is a matter that is not our concern, which is managed solely by the General Administration of the Treasury, which is only a matter of the ordinary administrative treatment of a case of this kind. All this sounds wrong! Prime Minister, I'm just asking you one question. If you consider that, in this case, the seriousness of the facts reported, and in particular the conviction by the Security Council expert group, warrants investigations, in addition to the work carried out by the judiciary, you should invite the Ministry of Finance to refer the matter to the Financial Information Processing Unit (TIFU), in accordance with the law. Where there are suspicions of money-laundering, possibly for terrorist purposes, there is an obligation to report the facts to the supervisory authority, CTIF. Moreover, the United Nations report highlights this risk of money laundering, embezzlement and embezzlement. You no longer have the embarrassment of choice. Prime Minister, I ask you for a clear commitment: will the Ministry of Finance finally take this very serious issue before the CTIF?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u25	Prime Minister, I believe that our group's position on Prince Laurent is clear. He is an ordinary citizen and therefore deserves no dotation, but as an ordinary citizen he also has the rights of an ordinary citizen. That means that when he has an enforceable judgment, he must also be able to enforce it. That's how it works in a democracy. Or at least that's how it should work. We therefore consider his accusation of those Libyan funds to be entirely justified. Someone pushed a button somewhere to release those frozen interest funds. The only question is, who pushed that button? Current Secretary De Croo doesn't know anything. He doesn't know the file yet. He's a minister now. Ex-Minister Van Overtveldt doesn't know anything, because he's not a minister anymore. Minister Geens doesn't know anything, because he is now Minister of Justice. Former Minister Vanackere doesn't know anything, because he's chairman of the National Bank. And then there is Minister Reynders, who à la Reynders likes to say: I'm from Barcelona, I know nothing. In short, Prime Minister, since 2001 more than 2 billion in interest money that had to be frozen has simply disappeared. The question is, who pushed that button? Or was it the treasure chest? Did he act on his own? Because that was suggested this morning by Finance Minister De Croo. Isn't it? Mr Monbaliu was also not very clear. I'll come to the questions. First of all, let's get that straight. Second of all, where did that money go? If we can believe Prince Laurent, it has flowed to Libyan militias. Apparently, money has also flowed to a number of companies. Is that what this is all about? Anyway, no money went to the prince's vzw. Prime Minister, it is high time you clarified this. Who's responsible? Or do we live in a world where no one is politically responsible anymore? This time I'd like to get an answer from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u26	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2011, the UN Security Council decided to block all the capitals of the Gaddafi regime. After all, people were afraid that those capitals would fall into the wrong hands. In 2018, a leg-hard report from the UN will be on the table. The conclusion is clear: Belgium has violated the UN Security Resolution by releasing interest on those capitals. Prime Minister, with a few colleagues we have done what is supposed to happen in a parliamentary democracy. Parliament has to ask questions to the government and we have asked questions. Mr Laaouej, do we know who made this decision today? No, Prime Minister, we don't know that today. I am addressing the chairman of the Finance Committee. Mr Van Rompuy, do we know how many hundreds of millions or perhaps billions have left Belgium? No, Prime Minister, we still don't know that today. I am addressing Mr Dedecker. Do we, Mr Dedecker, know who this money came to? No colleagues, we do not know that. I am addressing Mr Dallemagne. Do we know what that money was used for? No, ladies and gentlemen, one and a half years of parliamentary work later, and we are still at the starting point today. Prime Minister, I'm addressing you. I would like you to make clear to your finance and foreign ministers the abc of parliamentary control. If a parliament asks questions, then it needs answers. I ask you, Prime Minister, to instruct your ministers to deliver all documents relating to the management of those Libyan funds under Belgian control to the Chamber. We will then do our job with the Chamber. I urge that, before this House is dissolved, we should be able to enter into dialogue with all the relevant ministers on this matter. A next parliament may set up a committee of inquiry, but we still have five weeks to do our damn duty as parliamentarians. I trust, Prime Minister, that you have not yet lost all parliamentary reflexes and that you will instruct your ministers and their administrations to cooperate with Parliament on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u27	Prime Minister, RTBF and VRT, in collaboration, yesterday did a remarkable reconstruction work on this issue, both on the French-speaking side, on Questions à la Fronte, and on the Dutch-speaking side, on Pano. In 2011, it was decided by Belgium, in contradiction with a UN resolution and in contradiction with a European regulation, to allow the release of interest of billions of Libyans frozen in banks located in Belgium. I am not proud to be Belgian when I hear such serious things and when I read the UN report. He made it clear that Belgium had failed to comply with the resolution. The United Nations is particularly concerned about the use of this money in the context of preparations for terrorist actions. Prime Minister, it has been almost two years since I asked the Minister of Finance, asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs, asked diplomats and representatives of the Treasury, without receiving any answers to fundamental questions. Who authorized the thawing of these funds? Who acted behind the scenes to promote it? Why is there a differential treatment between certain companies, to which Libya owed money and a certain ASBL, that of Prince Laurent? Above all, where did these hundreds of millions of euros come from? What was that money for? As Prime Minister, I ask you to help this Parliament do its job and put your weight on the balance so that your ministers can finally answer us. This is our responsibility today. Belgium is being pointed out internationally. We are the only ones who have acted in this way, and we must not be proud of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to speak on this subject two weeks ago. I actually read several reports yesterday on television. At this point, I can confirm the messages I gave at the time. It goes without saying that the government, as always, intends to cooperate well with Parliament and answer the questions put to it. Every Thursday afternoon, I never fail to answer the various questions. I'll take you as a witness. Work has taken place in the Finance Committee and can of course continue there. While it appears that questions give rise to interpretations, dissatisfaction, sometimes even contradictions, as yesterday, it is Parliament's responsibility and freedom to draw the consequences and organise its work. I am not talking about contradictions in the head of a minister. This is not where contradictions appeared yesterday in the messages given. I repeat that the government is fully cooperating with Parliament to enable everyone to understand the different developments. The starting point of the reasoning is, I recall, Prince Laurent and an ASBL for which he is responsible or responsible who conclude a contract with the Libyan authorities. Second act: the court decision which condemns, not the Belgian State, but the Libyan authorities to honour a contract. Thirdly, in committee, there have been discussions with the previous Minister of Finance on the issue of the freezing and thawing of assets in connection with a United Nations resolution. I note the assessments in this regard. On the basis of my information, the debate focused on opinions, not only of Belgian officials, but of European expert groups that participated in the interpretation of the relevant United Nations resolutions. This is the message given in committee. The answer may not be considered satisfactory, but it cannot be said that there was no answer on the subject. Mr Maingain, this is a situation in which, according to my information, there are a number of judicial investigations or proceedings. The separation of powers in our country provides that, in the event of a dispute in a judicial procedure, the magistrate must act not the government but the magistrate. That applies to every citizen in this country. I am thus aware of the fact that, with regard to the decision and guidance taken by the departments of the Department of Finance, administrative appeals to the Council of State have been brought by the person concerned - and they are still pending. Therefore, I assume that no one here has asked the Prime Minister to interfere in court or administrative proceedings. Again, I would like to state that we are fully prepared to share the information in our possession. Every Thursday, I make it a point of honour to communicate information to Parliament, on the basis of the questions put to me. It goes without saying that, if committees meet again on this subject, the various ministers concerned and I myself will ensure that we continue to share the information with you. It can give you a smile. This is not the first time we have discussed the separation of powers. We will ensure that it is respected. Neither the Prime Minister nor the Government is an investigating judge or a magistrate in the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u29	Prime Minister, the separation of powers does not allow you to make fun of Parliament. Similarly, it does not allow you to evade the obligations of the law. Today, information has been gathered in an expert report of the United Nations Security Council. Let me tell you that it is not to the honour of Belgium, and in particular of those who have been forced to take the decision to release Libyan funds. In addition, there is evidence on a daily basis that the risk that these released amounts have been used to finance terrorism - or in any case, to engage in embezzlement and money laundering - is being confirmed. You therefore have an obligation to enter the TIF, the Financial Information Processing Unit. That's the question I asked you. By not responding to them and by not giving the impetus necessary for an independent body entrusted with investigative powers under the law to fulfil its legal obligations, you are simply becoming an accomplice to those who refuse the truth to break out!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u30	I mean, that's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, I cannot thank you for an answer. Mr Van der Maelen, you asked for answers. We didn't get them. In the meantime, however, we are already used to that. Prime Minister, you always use the argument of the separation of powers when it suits you. In the other cases, of course, it does not apply. However, Parliament has the right to have an answer. Apparently, that doesn't have to happen anymore. Mr Prime Minister, you simply do not understand the seriousness of the situation. You just don't see it. We have zero control over financial flows that flow abroad here in Belgium and for which we ourselves are responsible. We don't know about beating or blowing. I don't understand. We are violating all UN sanctions against Libya. That's no problem at all. Prime Minister, you have said that you want to be on the right side of history. In that case, you will do the same in this case: clarify and clarify the matter. Or do you perhaps want to cover up the issue and ensure that all ministers, apart from those few ministers who can still be here and still be questioned, do not suddenly know anything about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, claiming that this government has worked fully with Parliament in recent months is very much exaggerated. I will tell you what Parliament has received from the administration of finance. That's five pieces of paper. Some of those documents and e-mails clearly show that they were cut off when and to whom they were sent as well as who was in CC. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which plays a central role in decision-making through the Relex working groups in the file, we have one e-mail today, which we have received from the Treasury. That is what you call working with Parliament. Prime Minister, I repeat that we want to have all the documentation on Libyan assets and decision-making here in the Chamber between 2011 and 2017. Prime Minister, I don't know if you realize it. I don't know what happened to those resources. What I do know is that nothing good has happened to it. If the money had been used to build schools, hospitals or roads, we would have known it by now. The fact that an Omerta has been summoned on the file within your government means that something must remain hidden. A Parliament that respects itself demands clarity and clarity in such an interesting matter on the part of the government. That starts with giving us the documents and will end with an interrogation of the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u33	Prime Minister, I really think you underestimate the seriousness of this issue. Belgium, a member of the United Nations Security Council, is the only State in the world that has failed to comply with the collective decision to freeze Libyan assets, and that is very serious. When you say that the government has worked fully with Parliament to clarify this issue, you are mistaken. You must also require the current Minister of Foreign Affairs to respond appropriately to parliamentarians when they have questions about what he did at the time to allow for the thawing of the funds in question. You say this is a problem of separation of powers. It has a good back, the separation of powers! This is a matter of political responsibility. As stated in the report of the United Nations experts, it is not clear what this money has been used for. The report aired last night referred to an amount of 600 million euros that would have arrived in the wrong hands in Libya. What was that money for? Has Belgium been an accomplice in the preparation of terrorist acts? That is the question that arises today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u34	Prime Minister, we are approaching the end of the legislature and the question arises as to whether there will be a constitutional revision in the next legislature. Our Constitution, when proclaimed in 1831, was one of the most liberal in the world. It contains a number of fundamental principles, such as gender equality, freedom of expression and the right to association, which are today under pressure from people who have come to live in our country and place their own religion above the law and the Constitution. These principles are also under pressure in the European Union, because they are sometimes swept away by them in countries such as Poland and Hungary. Moreover, the Foreign Minister has repeatedly argued in the Chamber that it was necessary and necessary to act against it in a European context. What will we do to better protect our own Constitution and its principles and fundamental values? My group does not want to have a debate on a constitutional review that has always been done in the past, namely from the point of view that we must once again reform the state and talk about institutions and structures. No, we need to revise the Constitution on a number of points and give it some kind of preamble or introductory text to clarify what society we live in. So can we talk about rights and freedoms, can we talk about our fundamental values? My group has in any case listed a number of articles which it would like to make subject to revision. Prime Minister, I have a very specific question. Your government is in ongoing business. In normal circumstances, the government comes to Parliament with a statement on a series of articles, which it then asks to join. Will you do that this time? There are precedents for that. Mr President, you said that at the moment there is actually no margin in Parliament for a declaration to revise the Constitution and that you do not set any ambition. My proposal is to reverse things: if the government does not come up with a list, it is, of course, the freedom of the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution of the Chamber and of the plenary, and then of the Senate, to establish a list that the government could join. I do not think, Mr President, that it would be a good idea to go to a constitutional status quo when there is effective work on the table, for the reasons I have explained. Prime Minister, will you come up with a list? A contrario, if you do not come up with a list, I conclude that Parliament has the freedom to record that list. That will certainly inspire my group to initiate the debate on this in the Constitutional Review Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, Article 195 of the Constitution sets out the procedure for revising the Constitution. That procedure consists in the need for a statement with a list. According to my information, it is common practice that a government in current cases is unable to establish a longer list compared to the current list. An exception to this principle was only made in 2010. As far as I know, that was the only exception to that principle. Secondly, an amendment to the Constitution requires three lists: one of the Chamber, one of the Senate, which is a detail, but also one of the government. For the time being, we have not opened a discussion in the Council of Ministers on a possible list or a possible declaration for revision of the Constitution. With a government in current affairs, the Chamber and the Senate are, of course, free to draw up such a list. That is a political possibility. It does not necessarily mean that in current cases the government is obliged to follow the list of the Chamber or Senate. In my view, the Constitution is clear in this respect. There should be a minimum agreement on a mixed list of articles, between Chamber, Senate and Government. Everyone knows my personal opinion on the future of our country. A debate on the revision of the Constitution may address not only institutional aspects, but also more common aspects. In short, some articles offer the opportunity to open the debate on institutional aspects, but also on human rights. I realise that you have worked hard with other colleagues in the Chamber over the last few months on possible initiatives in this area. What happens with this is in Parliament's hands. In any case, the government will have to determine its position in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u36	Prime Minister, I understand your answer. It's careful. I do not need to describe to you how much work was done in the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution and how there was discussion about the need for a preamble and about rewriting and refining of fundamental fundamental rights. Let me mention them again: the right to self-determination, the separation of Church and State, the freedom of association, the equality of men and women, the fundamental values that we have established today in many countries. Nor is it our group's question to hold a major debate on the umpteenth stage of state reform and to talk about the institutions and structures. It is our question to talk about people's rights and freedoms. Mr Prime Minister, I understand your caution, but if there is a consensus in the Chamber and Senate to declare a number of constitutional articles subject to revision on that basis, I cannot imagine that the government would not take note of that parliamentary consensus in current cases, which should normally initiate the debate, and that it would not agree on that basis to allow the constitutional review. That is what I am inviting Parliament to do now and in the coming weeks. I hope that the government will be a fair partner in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u37	Mr Laaouej, I give you the floor to speak on the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u38	Mr President, to be clear, the question is addressed to both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy. So I guess they'll answer together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u39	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u40	It is, however, included in the picture. It's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u41	Mr. Chairman, perhaps there was a miscommunication between my firm and your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u42	Apparently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u43	I'm sorry. Having said that, we understood – but this is not the message that came to you – that Kris Peeters and I would answer in duet to the question of the inter-professional strike, but that was not the case. Yet we were both ready to answer. We also understood that we would answer these questions as a duet. Indeed, there is a component relating to the price of electricity and the impact of the increase in bills and a component relating to the social tariff which relates more directly to Kris Peeters' skills. We are ready to respond in duet, if this can be acceptable to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u44	In this case, we will hear the response of Minister Peeters and then that of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u45	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, my question is addressed to you, Prime Minister. Indeed, on 8 October last, during your speech on the state of union, you made a very clear promise to all our citizens. Indeed, you had clearly stated that it would be ENGIE Electrabel who would pay for the increase in the price of electricity caused by breakdowns, shutdowns, closures in nuclear power plants. And you promised that households would be spared. But what do we learn today? Since 1 February, the social rate for electricity, which affects the most vulnerable households, has increased by 22%. It should be noted that 450,000 households are covered by this scheme and that the 450,000 households experiencing the most difficulties will see their social rate increase by 125 euros per year. This means that these families will have to make more sacrifices and face more difficulties in closing the end of the month. It goes without saying that, for the Socialists, this increase in the bill is unbearable. The balance sheet of your promise is that on the one hand, ENGIE Electrabel did not pay any euro and that on the other hand, 450,000 households are pushed even further into precariousness. The Socialist Party proposes concrete solutions: on the one hand, this symbolic operation of the reduction of VAT on electricity bills from 21 % to 6 % and, on the other hand, the freezing of the prices of electricity bills, as was done in 2012 in a similar context. My question to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the government is simple. Are you prepared, yes or no, to take these two priority measures (deletion of VAT and freezing of invoices) to safeguard the purchasing power of households? I want to tell you: for once, make a flower for our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u46	Mr President, ministers, according to the CREG, the social tariff is expected to increase by 22% for electricity and by 29% for natural gas in the first half of 2019. Let us admit that the situation is important and that the percentage increases are more than serious! The situation is indeed dramatic if it were to be confirmed for the beneficiaries of these tariffs which are already very precarised and for the CPAS who fear an explosion of the unpaid ones. Part one. Part two, Prime Minister, with regard to the price of energy and its increase following the unavailability of ENGIE Electrabel's nuclear power plants, in October 2018, you mentioned in your speech here in session but also in response to questions: "Electrabel's management of the nuclear power plant has lacked the most basic foresight." You also said: "The price increase due to the abnormal unavailability of the nuclear fleet will have to be charged to ENGIE Electrabel." Prime Minister: a first rise in energy prices in October-November, a second one now - potential, as we learn that this could eventually be changed. Even in a federated entity, we've been made announcements that fall within your jurisdiction. It's a little surprising. Do you confirm, Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, that the social energy tariffs will be frozen? If so, for how long? How long? Indeed, because people who are precarised live in the short term and have this fear of growth in the long term. It seems to me that it is illusory to think that the price increase will be limited to such a short period. Did you, Prime Minister, ever estimate the cost of this freeze? How much is it worth? How will part of this cost be funded? What is the state of the negotiations with the incumbent operator regarding the taking over of this extra cost of the energy price following the unavailability of power plants in October-November 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u47	Mr.President, Prime Minister, in October 2018, we were already seeing electricity prices rise because of the unavailability of nuclear power plants. You said here: "I understand well – it is the intransigent message that I personally addressed yesterday to Electrabel and ENGIE – that their responsibility will have to be assumed for security of supply but also for the impact in terms of abnormal price increases that is linked to this unavailability of the nuclear fleet." You said, "I'll come back!" Prime Minister, I haven't heard anything since. As a result, I will give you this and you will be able to stick it over your sink as you will think about it every day – normally. On the other hand, Prime Minister, what I am hearing is the rise in the price of the social tariff, a 22 per cent increase that follows the increase that all households have experienced on average by more than 25 per cent. It is the electricity itself that increases and not the costs of distribution or transport. What can be observed is that in this reference period this increases sharply in Belgium but not in France, Germany and the Netherlands. So, unlike wages where other countries are called upon to block wages, when it comes to blocking prices, there is no way of looking at what is happening in other countries. This situation, which is specific to Belgium, shows that it is the unavailability of nuclear power plants that has led to an increase in prices. Whose fault is it? To Electrabel and ENGIE of course, but also to that of this government which has extended nuclear power to the benefit of Electrabel. It should also be noted that citizens and households have received two slaps from your government, Prime Minister. The first was 21% VAT on electricity. The second is a 22% increase in the social rate for electricity. Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that this was also one of your promises: "Give up VAT on electricity from 21% to 6%, promise kept!" I'll give it to you, too. This way, you can place it over your washbasin to think about it every day. Prime Minister, when will you make Electrabel pay, as you promised in October? What will be the amount? Will VAT on energy finally fall to 6%? Finally, in the alternative, is 6% VAT on electricity included in the MR programme for the next elections?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u48	Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, a lot of people are unfortunately having a hard time paying their energy bill. Fortunately, in Belgium, we do have a unique system in which people and low-income families or people in sensitive situations are supported or protected through the social tariff. The social rate is considerably lower than the current commercial rate, but we unfortunately found last week that the social rate increased by as much as 22%. Minister, as soon as you heard that news, you and Minister Marghem took an initiative to consult the CREG. At that time, you instructed the CREG to examine by today whether the sharp rise in the social rate could be reversed. Is the CREG report already in place and can the social tariff be effectively reversed? If so, how can we best do that? We all know that such a reversal has a financial impact. Do you have a visual on that financial impact yet? How can we wear it? In future, Minister, we must avoid such sharp increases. Do you have any suggestions or possibilities to reform the calculation of the social tariff?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u49	Gentlemen, one in five families live in energy poverty. Over a hundred thousand families need a payoff plan to pay their energy bill. The energy bill of a Flemish family has increased by over 300 euros since 2015, due to the increase in VAT to 21 %. Due to the imminent power shortage, the invoice threatened to increase by 100 euros in the beginning of this winter. Prime Minister, you said at the time that you would claim compensation from Electrabel, but we have not heard from them since. As a blow to the head, ladies and gentlemen, the social rate is now rising by 22%. First this government gave 1 billion gifts to Electrabel and now the most vulnerable families will pay 22% more. That is unacceptable, unjust and scandalous. Minister, you are also Minister for Combating Poverty. You always say you're the social face of the government. You're gonna have to hit the chest with this! This is outrageous and beneath everything. The government can perfectly block the automatic rise in the social tariff. By the way, you, Minister Peeters, were going to get an opinion from the CREG today. My questions now are: what does that advice say? But above all, will you block that absurd, scandalous price increase for the most vulnerable among us?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will deal with the issue of social rates. Then the Prime Minister will answer the other questions. It is true that the increase in social rates of 22 per cent and even 28 per cent has never been so high as to cover the most vulnerable group in our society. You know that we have a gas and electricity law which includes these social tariffs and that there are ministerial decisions of 30 March 2007 which give the CREG the power to calculate them. In practice, this is an automatic system, which calculates social rates on the basis of the formulas contained in the Ministerial Decision. We have asked: the increase has never been as high as it is now. Together with Minister Marghem, I requested the CREG on Monday to explain and explain what we can do to respond to this high rise. We have put two specific questions to the CREG. Firstly, what is the financial impact of the social tariff freeze? It is therefore the increase envisaged and normally applicable from 1 February. What possibility is there to freeze that, so not to let that happen? A second question was whether the freezing could take effect retroactively from 1 February. Together we have drawn up a ministerial decision, in which we address the clear demand for a freeze on the increase in social rates. Today, the opinion of the CREG must be received. I got the message that the advice came in this afternoon. There is still an agreement to be reached by the Minister for the Budget on the budgetary impact of that freeze. It is our intention to bring this to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible and then to discuss it with colleagues. I will do everything I can to respond to this too high increase. As Mr Dierick has pointed out, this is the first time we have faced such a peak. We must give the CREG time to ensure, as we have asked, that in the future people who are already having difficulties are prevented from experiencing such a sharp increase. In the coming weeks and months, a new system and a new ministerial decision must be drawn up to ensure that this can no longer happen and that this increase is stopped if necessary. It was also asked to reflect on the method of calculation and to formulate a new approach, but that will take some time. The most important thing is that we immediately took action to respond to this too high increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we were confronted a few months ago with information that nuclear power plants would not be available. This has led to a major concern about security of supply. A task force has been set up and initiatives have been stepped up to ensure that this security is ensured throughout the winter. It was a top priority. You have just echoed what I have said on behalf of the government in this rostrum. I persist and I sign: it is ENGIE Electrabel who must bear the consequences of the abnormal unavailability of several nuclear power plants. The government immediately instructed lawyers to work on hypotheses to base, with a legal argument, this claim with ENGIE Electrabel. CREG was also asked to draw up a report in order to be able to objectiveise the proportion of the increase - and also its duration - related to this abnormal unavailability of nuclear power plants. A first report has been received by the CREG and we expect another important report shortly, since it should, with the hindsight over the whole winter, identify the precise impact in terms of price increases. I confirm the intention of this government in day-to-day affairs to continue the work once we have received this supplementary report from CREG, to ensure that the commitment made when we were not in day-to-day business can be mobilised. At that time, I hope to be able to count on Parliament's support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u52	Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The words fly away, but the writings remain. You confirm your promise that ENGIE Electrabel will pay the price increase due to closures, breakdowns and so on in nuclear power plants. According to my information, the main cause of the increases is that. You tell us - but this is all to be confirmed - that you are studying retroactivity. At the moment, nothing is concrete in the answers we hear. We will see in the coming times. But of course, the increase will apply to all consumers. The question of the social tariff is one thing, and I hope that will be done. It's important to know that your promise was that among all consumers, including people who don't have very high incomes, the middle class, none of them would have to suffer the price increases due to breakdowns or closures of nuclear power plants. We stay a little on our hunger. We will see, but there is not much time left for this to happen. Until now, ENGIE Electrabel has not yet contributed to the financing of these price increases. I think that the question of purchasing power is at the heart of the message that is expressed in the street with the movements of citizens, yellow vests and others. They ask us to work on the issue of purchasing power. We reiterate our request that VAT on electricity be reduced to 6% instead of 21%. This would be a very strong signal to the purchasing power of citizens in the coming times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u53	Prime Minister, thank you for your response and for confirming your commitment here last fall. However, I would like to point out that no matter what happens, companies and households have pre-financed this increase in energy and that they were in some way the bankers of ENGIE Electrabel for this amount. I understand that your commitment is being respected and I will ensure that it is. Mr Minister for Employment and the Economy, I do understand that you are doing everything you can to take a decision in order to freeze, if possible, the social tariff. I hope that your commitment is real, because you say you're going to do everything, but that must indeed be the case. I would like to remind you that the situation of the poorest is perpetual and does not end a few months after the elections. I therefore mean that you are quickly putting in place another mechanism and long-term measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u54	Prime Minister, what is a commitment on your part worth? In October, four months ago, you promised us to charge ENGIE Electrabel. You asked for a report from CREG. When you received this report, you asked for a second report. After the second, will you ask for a third? When will it be available? After the dissolution of the Chambers or after the May elections? We ask you a little serious when you make commitments, Prime Minister. In fact, before 2014 and the arrival of your government, a Belgian household paid its electricity bill on average 46 euros less than in neighbouring countries. Today, a Belgian household pays 160 euros more than in neighbouring countries. That is the reality, Prime Minister, and the effect of your policy! The PTB circulated a petition which collected 250,000 signatures in favour of a 21 % to 6 % reduction in VAT on electricity. That's what people ask and you don't hear. We also demand the imposition of a maximum price, as is the case in other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u55	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that you very clearly agree that such a significant increase is absolutely unacceptable to those who are already in a very difficult situation. After your answers, I am still hopeful that you will take measures in the short term to reverse that increase and that you will look to the future. This is the first time that there has been such a significant increase. Let's be clear, it's got to be the last time for us, too. We really need to see how we can recalculate the social rate. The affordability of the energy bill is certainly a focus for CD&V. Two weeks ago we adopted a bill here on the retroactivity of the social tariff. However, we have long advocated the introduction of an energy standard for families and businesses. We also call for attention to be paid to this. We hope that your Energy Minister will take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u56	Gentlemen, thank you for your answers. Yesterday thousands of people stopped because they were angry, because the water was on their lips. That 22 % means for many the drop that makes the bucket run over. Prime Minister, I hear from you a commitment. I hope you'll do the same. Mr Peeters, I hear from you a cautious yes, when I was actually expecting a full yes. I hope you will carefully turn that yes into a full yes. Surely the budgetary impact cannot be stopped by a government that has 1 billion auctiones for Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u57	Today, Minister, a foreign job seeker in Belgium is only entitled to unemployment benefit if he has worked here in Belgium for three months. In the Michel administration, there was an agreement to increase that deadline to six months. Last summer, the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union put on the table a proposal to reduce these three months to one month. You, as a representative of Belgium, quite rightly opposed this and did not approve that regulation. Unfortunately, this was approved by qualified majority, which is now before the European Parliament for discussion. In addition, there is now a new text, which would be reduced even further to one day. In November, you replied explicitly to a question from my colleague, Mr Van der Donkt, that you would oppose by all means the three-month reduction to one month, and that you were counting on the support of Commissioner Marianne Thyssen. We are therefore surprised when we heard that yesterday, in the tripartite talks of the Commission, Parliament and the Council, the three months were reduced to one month. There is even talk that these Belgian unemployment benefits can be taken abroad, to the country of origin. That is a cause for concern, because that undermines the basic principle of social security, the contribution and the benefit of our social security system. As a representative of Belgium, will you continue to defend the three-month condition as a minimum? Have you already sought support from neighbouring countries such as France, the Netherlands and Germany, which have taken that position? Is it true that Mrs Thyssen left her initial three-month work proposal and that she is currently supporting the one-month compromise proposal? What concrete action are you planning to take to halt this worrying evolution in the dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u58	Mr President, Mr Spooren, I understand your concern and I hope that I can reassure you. As far as the coordination of unemployment rules is concerned, the trilogue is running. I would also like to stress in advance that anyone seeking access to unemployment benefit must prove the same number of working days within a given reference period. You have already referred to the fact that until 30 September 2016 it was sufficient in Belgium to have worked one day to include foreign periods for the calculation of the required number of working days. You know that since 1 October 2016, foreign periods can only be counted if there is at least three months of employment in Belgium and the foreign benefits were provided in a treaty country. I would like to confirm once again that I continue to defend the Belgian position, namely at least three months of employment. I continue to oppose a reduction in that period. I do not want workers from other EU countries who have only worked one day in Belgium to be able to benefit from a Belgian unemployment benefit, and I believe that you can support this. The principle that one has to contribute before one can accept social rights is fundamental to the stability of our social security. The three-month period that we are now using seems reasonable and fair to me. The same deadline was included in the original proposal of the European Commissioner, Marianne Thyssen. Two weeks ago there was a DGE on this particular point, a meeting at European level, at which all the Regions were represented. My cabinet confirmed this position once again at that meeting. So we are doing what we can. Our position is clear. Together with a number of other countries, which share the same opinion, we will defend this position at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u59	Minister, I am glad that we are all on the same page here, but it does not entirely remove my concerns. It is good that you are determined and that you continue to defend that view from Belgium. I hope that you will be able to do the same and that we will find enough partners to do so, because I think we agree that social security tourism in the European Union should be avoided. The free movement of workers is good, but it must not be the consequence of undermining our own social security system. That is not the social Europe we want. It not only undermines funding, it also undermines the public support for these signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u60	Mr President, Minister, excess profit rules are a tax system that allows, under conditions of investment and job creation, subsidiaries of foreign companies to pay tax as a separate entity. It is a system that attracts businesses, stimulates the economy and creates jobs. On 11 January 2016, the European Commission had considered the Belgian system to be a state aid scheme, which led to an action for annulment by the Government, considering that it was not a general scheme but a two-tier scheme with a study of each case in particular. Today, the judgment of the Court of Justice states: "The Court of Justice considers that the Commission wrongly considered that the Belgian system relating to the excess profits of multinational companies constitutes an aid scheme." This is obviously an important moment because we heard of it wrongly and through the legislature, believing that the state encouraged multinationals not to pay taxes, when it was an intelligent system for creating jobs, creating economic activity and developing investment. Of course, this decision will have consequences. Minister, what are you going to do about this decision? What consequences will companies be able to draw from this judgment? What follow-up will be given to this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u61	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment this morning finding that excess profit regulation (EPR), within the meaning of Article 185(2)(b) of IARC 92, does not constitute an aid scheme. They are therefore not classified as illegal state aid. In that judgment, the Court annulled the European Commission's decision that Belgium should recover the tax advantage which had been granted. However, for the time being, it is not clear whether Belgium will return the amounts recovered. Indeed, two cases are still possible. First, the European Commission can still appeal. We'll know in two months. If she refuses to do so, it is clear that we will return the amounts. Second, she appealed, and the decision was upheld. In that case, restitution would take place. This judgment shows that there is still legal stability in terms of the tax rules that we apply, especially in an international environment. In addition, I recall that the BPRs date back to 2004. In the meantime, we have undertaken a reform of ISOC, which is based on a shift tax and a reduction in facial rates. So we are in another period. Nevertheless, it seems to me important that the European Court of Justice should rule that Belgium was not wrong in taking this measure, which was then good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. When we read the judgment, we find that the Commission went into trouble a little bit by believing that it was a general scheme, whereas it was a one-off scheme, since it consisted of checking, on a case-by-case basis, whether jobs were created and investments made. I am pleased that the government's position, which was so defied on the left, was legitimate. Of course, we must now await the continuation of the procedure. In any case, it is reassuring that we can give our confidence to arrangements put in place which are the result of a pact with companies. We know that the tax administration regularly challenges the rules. Once again, we see that a ruling is an agreement, a partnership with a company, and that we must honour our commitments. We'll see what happens next. Thank you, Minister, for confirming that the government is working tirelessly to combat real tax evasion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u63	Minister, this morning in the press, we discover amazing information about which it is important that we obtain clarification. The European Court of Human Rights, for example, condemned Belgium on 8 November last, in the Boze case, for violating Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is linked to respect for the rights of the defence. In this case, the lawyer would not have assisted his client during the hearings. At this stage there are 27 appeals pending before the European Court of Human Rights for similar reasons: violation of the rights of the defence, absence of lawyers at certain hearings, the interviewees would not have been told that they had the right to remain silent or not to self-condemnify themselves as responsible. These people were reportedly sent a letter inviting them, against 3,000 euros, to abandon their appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. I'm sure that's a question. We are sometimes bombarded with information that is not entirely correct. This one seems surprising. Is that correct? Who's behind this deal? How has the State been informed of this, if there has been a deal? Who's gonna pay? The issue of respect for the rights of the defence is highlighted, as a result of these Salduz provisions that honour our country, because the rights of the defence are an essential element of freedoms for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u64	Mr Goffin, first of all, let us stress that this is an old case. It concerns a problem that has now been resolved following the entry into force of the Salduz Act. The titles in the press must also be nuanced. You'll probably have already done it. The initiative taken towards these 27 convicts is not from the State but from the practice of the Court. Indeed, any case has three possible outcomes. The first is the amicable settlement, which allows the Court to remove the case from the role if the parties agree on a remedy found to be in conformity with respect for human rights. This regulation does not require explicit recognition of violations, but does not constitute an obstacle to a possible request for the reopening of criminal proceedings. This is important for your last question. Unilateral declaration is the second method. It requires recognition of violations in addition to reparation. Nor is it an obstacle to a possible request for the reopening of criminal proceedings. Thirdly, the exchange of observations between the parties would result in the same result if the State were to be condemned, with the Court remaining faithful to the amount proposed at the non-contentious stage of the proceedings. In the present cases, the amount of EUR 3,000 has been fixed by the Court, which, in view of its clear case law on the assistance of a lawyer in the pre-trial stage of criminal proceedings, hopes to reduce unnecessary proceedings and debates a priori. This lump sum is intended to compensate for the moral damage suffered by the complainant, given the lack of access to a lawyer at all stages of the proceedings, but without prejudging the outcome of the trial if the proceedings had been followed. In the 27 cases in question, Belgium, like the applicants, has until 12 March to communicate its position on a possible amicable settlement. At this stage, the Belgian State has not yet opted for defence or non-dispute settlement, but in the latter case has the habit of paying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u65	Minister, it is good to respond clearly, because it prevents the dissemination of information that is conducive to the spread of the disorder among the population. This is the normal application of existing procedures. Within our judicial system, we must ensure that the rights of the defence are guaranteed at all times in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u66	Madam Minister, you have been working for a long time on a support system for the nine new gas plants you want to build to complete the core exit. Over the last few weeks, we have heard several times that this would cost EUR 9 billion. In your story, this money must be coughed up by taxpayers, consumers and businesses. In the meantime, you've responded. In a single interview, you said, firstly, that that amount was wrong, secondly, that it still had to be calculated and, thirdly, that you had already heard figures but did not want to put them in the microphone. Madam Secretary, let's face it, these three things can't be right at the same time. You need to know what it's about. Yesterday an interview appeared in the press with someone from the CREG in which the same amount came up again. It said that, in some scenarios, the total cost of the support mechanism for the planned gas plants is effectively up to EUR 9 billion. Madam Secretary, we need to know what's going on. We're not playing "The Three Wise Men" here. People at home shouldn't decide which of your answers is right, that's what you should do. So we ask you very clearly and simply, so that you can give a concrete answer, whether you are aware of calculations that EUR 9 billion is needed to support the system. Or isn't that the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u67	Mr Wollants, at the moment I do not have a comprehensive estimate of the cost of CRM, except for PwC in their study of March 2018. Based on the model developed by the company, the updated total cost of the CRM (capacity rehabilitation mechanism) over 15 years is 5.4 billion euros, not 9 billion euros. That amounts to 344.9 million a year. In the study, PwC also explains in detail how it came to that cost and what the different sensitivities are. His hypothesis and methodology were also presented to the guidance committee of the study, set up by the FPS Economy and consisting of representatives from among others the CREG and Elia. The CREG has also recently expressed some figures and arguments in the direction of a cost possibly exceeding EUR 344.9 million per year. The CREG believes that the required volume would be much lower than the one on which PwC bases its calculations, which would further reduce this cost and place it below EUR 344 million. Elijah, too, would have made his own estimate. Elia comes out at a cost of the same order of magnitude as PwC's. At a recent event, Elia also pointed out that the benefits would be higher than the costs, so that a well-developed CRM would in fact be cheaper than the current system of strategic reserves. I still don't have the details of the calculations to the last hundred and, momentarily. It is still necessary to look at the extent to which this new study takes into account the changes made to the CRM in the context of the exchange with the European Commission. Indeed, PwC's study does not take this into account. So there are different figures circulating in the media and I have nothing to do with it. But I would like to point out that PwC's study for the cost of EUR 344.9 million per year is the only study available to date. As a result, a range of €166 to €454 million per year was proposed in this study. You must know that when the auctions are launched and when in 2021 the quality of the bids made in this auction and the price of electricity - since these auctions are based on a cost and support flexible according to the price of electricity - we will have the exact price. But no exaggeration and not anything like figures launched by some in the press!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u68	Thank you for your reply, Minister, but allow me to say that I am not entirely reassured. You told a part of the story here. You referred to the CREG to say that the cost would fall, but you know as well as I do that at the end of January the CREG expressed a number of reservations about the discussion with Febeliec. The conclusion of the CREG was not, as you said, that the cost will fall, but that the cost will have to be higher than PwC has calculated. Madam Secretary, we will remember what you said here about cost. I am convinced that we will continue digging in the coming weeks and months. We are particularly concerned about the enormous cost that is coming towards us and which will be borne by our citizens and businesses. That is why we will be playing the ball here shortly. We will work on this and eventually the right figure will come up. We need to know what is going on, because in the end we are all paying that cost and the N-VA is watching over it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u69	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u71	I refer to the written report with Mr Vercammen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our hospitals are facing major challenges today because of the growing needs of an ageing population, an aspect that we can rejoice at, but also because of the evolution of technologies, which are increasingly expensive. Unfortunately, and even if you try to challenge it by all possible means, minister, the root cause of this phenomenon is the growing underfunding of the hospital sector. The observation is not from us, but from the hospitals, which report savings – as they mentioned during the hearings in committee – of 500 million euros, which you put on them during this parliamentary term. You will therefore easily understand the financial fragility of many of our hospitals, once again confirmed by the latest MAHA study. Some hospital officials have commented on this study in the words: "We are in a hurry like lemons, but by virtue of being, there is nothing left to come out." This fragile situation has direct consequences not only for hospital staff (nurses, doctors), who say they are under increasing pressure and whose health is even compromised, but also for the quality of care provided to patients, who are sometimes no longer cared for in some hospitals because of a lack of resources. Such a situation is obviously inconceivable. It is the responsibility of the policy (i.e. ours) to put an end to this negative development. Madam Minister, let us be clear: for my group, the need to reform the landscape and hospital funding is a certainty. The reflection on this far-reaching reform had already been initiated at the time by our colleague Laurette Onkelinx. It is indeed a reform that is essential for the sustainability of our system, its quality, its effectiveness and its accessibility, for the benefit of all patients, but also for the proper distribution of the resources available among hospitals, among hospital workers. This is our vision for future reform. However, with respect to your own vision of the future of health care in health care institutions, I am sorry to say that we still do not know it. Is there a fiscal reform that will eventually lead to a rationalisation of the number of hospitals, thereby reducing jobs in the sector, reducing access to and quality of care? Or is it in the context of a reform which, as we understand it, is primarily qualitative in favour of the institutions of care and ultimately of the patients? Today, we still have no answer. In your presentation, you said that the idea was "to do better and more with the same budget and that it should therefore be expected that certain services would be closed down through a revision of the activity thresholds, for example." It sets the tone for your intentions. You describe this reform as a response to the financial difficulties of hospitals, implying that the reform is supposed to be a source of savings. You're mistaken, Madam Minister. Indeed, this reform may produce economies of scale, but in the long term and sometimes even in the very long term. For to get involved in these rapprochements – and you know that – hospitals first need to invest; they need resources. And you, instead of guaranteeing them a stable budgetary framework that they call for with all their wishes – as we have seen during the hearings – you are saving on their backs, as was again the case this year. You have removed recycling premiums that allow hospitals to reorganize their services by preserving employment. In order to respond to the structural underfunding of hospitals, it would also have been necessary to make further progress on the reform of hospital financing and to consider a reform of the nomenclature, which is far from possible, you will agree. I come back, Madam Minister, to the draft as submitted to us. This is a project that we consider to be untabotious, unsightly and cruelly lacking in vision. Madam Minister, what you are telling us with this text, or rather what you are telling the hospitals, is that they must come together to form a maximum of 25 networks across our territory by January 1, 2020, so tomorrow. For the rest – I want to say – they will have to manage. Do I have to remind you that at the start of our discussions, you did not even agree on the distribution of these 25 networks among the different regions? This agreement was presented to us much later, an agreement that was incorporated as it was through an amendment to the bill, while, according to information provided to us, some elements are still under discussion within the federated entities. I am thinking in particular of the approvals that we have had the opportunity to discuss in committee, such as the Council of State. On the other hand, I continue to ask myself questions about the hospital networks which will be made up of hospitals which fall within the competence of several Communities and which will have to take account of different or even irreconcilable standards of accreditation. Questions about this text are not limited to these elements. Far from it! They cover an important set of elements which are not included in the project and which, however, could have a considerable influence on the formation of these networks. The Council of State itself considers: "The full scope of the reform will only become clear when implementing orders are adopted." It is therefore not possible to have a clear vision or to understand where we are going for hospitals, for patients and for workers in the sector. First of all for hospitals, the first concerned, we know that there will be regional local care missions that will have to be available in all networks but not necessarily in each hospital. The supra-regional care missions will not be offered in all networks. Of these missions, we do not know anything today because they are absolutely undefined. We also know that new programming must come into being. This applies, for example, to maternity services or to emergency services. However, today we have absolutely no idea what this new programming will look like. Finally, we still do not know what will happen to collaborations between private and public hospitals. However, the plurality of our offer of care must be ensured. The public and secular nature guarantees the accessibility of care to each patient, regardless of his or her income, and guarantees the philosophical and ethical neutrality of the care institution that participates in the public service. Again, there are still questions about the legal structure, budget management and human resources within these mixed networks. How, then, will the minister, without these essential elements, be able to carry out a quality reform by allowing hospitals to group together in an optimal way? I was saying there's no global vision for hospitals first. The same applies to patients who must always be the focus of our concerns. The patients who are very little mentioned in this bill seem to be at the heart of our thinking. We therefore have no guarantee of geographical accessibility for patients. Indeed, without a precise definition of care missions and future programming, it is impossible to know whether hospitals will regroup in such a way as to ensure this accessibility to patients. We also have no guarantee of freedom of choice for patients, as the network will be exclusively competent for the network's address policy. Finally, we have no guarantee of financial accessibility, as this networking will, for example, lead to more travel for patients and therefore more costs that are not known how they will be covered. No clear vision for hospitals. No clear vision for patients. And no clear vision for the workers in the sector. Let's not face it! This reform will result - you have never denied - in the closure of certain services. Some workers will have to change their place of work or trade. Some workers may also have to work at several hospital sites. In other cases, as a result of increased home hospitalization, they will move from the hospital sector to the outpatient sector. The issues of geographical mobility, occupational mobility and training are therefore, rightly, very numerous. And yet, Madam Minister, you don't give them any answers. You send the hot potato back to your colleague, the Minister of Employment, and you move forward, while the least you can do would be to be able to provide them with answers so that they can engage calmly in the reform. There are also all these questions concerning the unification within the same network of the statutes of doctors, nurses and staff in general, knowing that the system of remuneration may differ from one hospital to another. These questions also remain unanswered. Madam Minister, for all the reasons I have mentioned and as we have done in committee, my group will abstain from this proposal today. We call on you to take the royal decrees necessary for the enforcement of these laws as soon as possible, to allow hospitals to make good choices and to guarantee patients access and quality care. This reform was long overdue. Announced at the beginning of the legislature, you have finally presented us a completely inabouti text, clearly lacking consultation and coordination with the federated entities and which engages the hospitals in a game of which they do not know the rules. If it were just a game, we could accept it, but it is the future of our care institutions and the accessibility and quality of care for our citizens that are at stake. It therefore deserved a quality reform that we do not think we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u73	Mr. Chair, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us reflects a portion of the 2014 government agreement that provided for significant reforms in the hospital landscape. In the approach plan of April 28, 2015, you announced that "in order to prepare the hospital sector for the future and for the long-term maintenance of quality, accessible and affordable care, clinical collaboration between hospitals is now essential. This collaboration is not an end in itself, but it is a lever to achieve a better quality and more rational hospital offer by optimising the resources involved." Here we go. The bill is an important step in the implementation of this reform of the hospital landscape. Hospital networks and locoregional clinics will be the new centre of gravity in the organisation of this landscape. The aim is, of course, to encourage hospitals to work together, with other care facilities, more closely and frequently, in order to better coordinate transmural care, always for the benefit of patients. Everyone admits that everything can no longer be done everywhere. The hearings showed that the objectives were shared by all. The actors are convinced of the need to reform the hospital landscape. Twenty-five networks will provide patients with locoregional hospital care, i.e. those who, for various reasons - prevalence, cost, urgency - must be accessible in the vicinity of their home. Contrary to what some claim, the setting up of networks does not impose or induce any merger between hospitals that will form a network. That's an important point. It is also clear in the bill that individual hospitals will retain their legal personality, accreditation number and financial responsibility. These are elements that have been the subject of intensive discussions in committee, but we are now certain of them. Each hospital will be able to maintain its identity, its policy and can even strengthen it by specializing in specific locoregional missions. They'll just have to be part of one of the networks. He is not affected in any way by the principle of the therapeutic freedom of doctors, nor by the patient's freedom of choice. This is obviously a fundamental aspect, which I have not yet heard of today. Ultimately, it will always be possible for the patient to be treated in the hospital of his choice, provided, of course, that he finds there the specialty required by his pathology. Nevertheless, we had identified two or three pitfalls during the hearings in committee: collaboration with the federated entities, the lack of deep programming and the legal structure as such of the network. However, I will allow myself to rule out one of these criticisms. Indeed, some questioned the fact that the current state of Walloon legislation does not expressly permit cooperation between a subordinate power - common, province, public welfare centre - and a private legal person. In this regard, Minister De Bue has just announced the approval of a draft Walloon Government Order to secure all forms of rapprochement, including those provided for in the federal policy for the creation of hospital networks, by setting a clear framework for health care institutions to do so. In addition, the Interministerial Health Conference is obviously essential in the context of network development. The competence of the federated entities includes the accreditation of networks and the development of minimum standards which they will have to meet in order to be approved. The different levels of power are encouraged to move in the same direction. The memorandum of understanding of 5 November constitutes, moreover, the beginnings of this agreement. With regard to the concept of "geographically continuous area", the explanatory memorandum describes the contours of the area in detail. We also hope that some flexibility may be necessary. It is, of course, up to the federated entities to operationalize this principle. We also appreciate that no specific population limit has been established in the law. This is in line with the wishes expressed by the sector and, certainly, the patients. Ultimately, and this will be my last point, networking will have to transcend ideological pillars. This is a fundamental aspect, but a change in mentality is likely to be necessary to carry out this extremely important project. In any case, it is an objective that the Reform Movement defends. It remains to be seen how the land will be organized. He made a request and showed good will. Now we're going to have to put all this into music. To do this, a lot of understanding will be needed. Mr. Chair, Minister, the MR Group will naturally support the bill, as it lays the foundation for the clinical collaboration that is essential to tomorrow's hospital landscape and to affordable and, above all, accessible quality care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u74	Mr President, Minister, when I look at what I have written on my magazine, that is actually a summary of what Mr Thiéry has just said. So I'll be brief. I think we are taking a very important first step here today. In 2014, we indeed had three major yards in mind around the hospitals. A first yard would be about the reform of the hospital landscape, which we are doing today. A second yard would be about financing our hospitals. We have also taken a first important step with the low variable care. A third yard, but that has not only happened under your policy, also under that of your predecessor, is the re-evaluation of the nomenclature. That's always been hard. Your predecessors, too, have made little progress in this regard. What is before us today is an important step. I think everyone is convinced that we have very good health care today. We score brilliantly in terms of accessibility and affordability, including internationally, but also in terms of quality, we must take steps to maintain that good health care in the future. We are convinced that we are doing too much in too many places, which reduces our quality. With what we are doing here today, namely working together, we are working very hard not only on this quality but also on the financial health of our hospitals. We must optimise, both in terms of staff expertise and in terms of equipment and infrastructure. What is also important in establishing these networks is that everyone can do so at their own pace. One can go from a light version to a maximum version. Anyone can do this in their own way. We know that we are moving towards a maximum of 25 networks from 2020. When I look on the Flemish side, I see that most networks have already formed today and are already looking at how they can work together. They didn't have to wait until today. A lot of initiatives could already be taken, such as cooperation in clinical labs. We can see that there are a lot of positive incentives around that, but at some point a legal framework is needed to go further in order to continue this cooperation. That's what's on the table here today. For CD&V it remains important that the engine of that reform remains the individual hospital, especially for the basic concerns we offer in the regions. Within these networks, we must look at how we will work together for other competences and, for the more specialised issues, we must also look outside the network at how we will work together supraregionally. I support the question put by the two colleagues. It will be important for the coming period to be clarified within the framework of the programming. It is not so much about supra-regional tasks as about basic tasks. "Mother and child" is one of those orders, urgency is another. I feel that there is a need for clarity from the field of work, because this is also quite essential for the way in which we want to work together in a network, especially as regards the relationship between individual hospitals. Colleagues, we are taking a first step here. We now have a good year to continue working on the ground. The Communities are now also on the move. The recognition must be done. I am also looking at Flanders, where we have already started to draw up regional care strategic planning. It is also important that the first-line actors are involved. Today we are faced with a rather revolutionary reform of our hospital landscape, in which we are taking a first, important step today. My group can only support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, hospitals are at their financial limit. They moan under savings and 40 percent is in the red numbers. What was thought would never happen: two Dutch hospitals have now gone bankrupt. In Belgium we still finance beds, not people's health. There is now a framework law on networking. Let me be clear: we agree with the great philosophy of cooperation and networking. By the way, I started in Antwerp 15 years ago with ZNA, the first network around hospitals. We then put eight hospitals in one network. I can also say that we've handled everything in those hospitals, everything from the biggest systems to the smallest items. That took eight years. I am absolutely aware that this is not an easy dossier. The difference is that there was no system then, no legislation to do so. We had to deal with the existing legislation very creatively at the time, and we went on the verge of looking for what could and could not be done. So you should not convince me that networking is the right finality, Madam Minister, but that networking is only an instrument to ensure that everyone in Belgium can continue to receive affordable, qualitative care in hospitals within a given perimeter. We have to work on this together. Madam Minister, you are welcome to look at the committee reports, but when you started five years ago, I told you that too. I would have liked us to be much further away now. Only the Portuguese are with us now. In five years we could have done a lot, but then we had to give gas. So I am disappointed in the result. There's not enough on the shelf. There's a framework law, but it doesn't go into force until next year. There are still implementing decisions to be taken. There's probably gonna be a new government. Will it begin to discuss this again? When will the new law become a reality? For it is feasible, we will eventually be eight years further, if all goes well. I am also sorry that we do not find out much about the other care, such as outpatient care. It should also be linked to the care regions. I don't see how it's gonna work. You will, of course, say that this is still to be negotiated, but that takes time. In fact, they should have worked on several tracks at the same time, after which they could come together. I am also concerned about the cooperation between the partners. With two, that's usually not easy, like in a marriage, let alone with some. There are always those who have more power than others, for all kinds of reasons. Will the little ones be protected or will they be plucked out, will they take the cherries off the cake and leave the little ones with the crumbs? That is not what is being decided. In order to work together and to realise new things, Madam Minister, there must be confidence, but there is also a need for money. Working out of poverty is usually not that easy. I know the sector very well. The wallet is a priority for many partners. So it would have been better if one could have given some sort of certainty to all the partners who are at the table. Networking, of course, serves to optimise, not to clean up. Restoring means giving less money and saving less money. This is about working better and differently with the same resources. Is the proceeds of this optimization going to the patients, the hospitals or the doctors? Actually, that's not clear. That is what everyone is waiting for, and everyone is defending their interests in this respect, because it is still the case that we are dealing with a performance medicine. I am not against performance, for the sake of clarity, and the more performance one delivers, the more money one receives; that is why we have too many CT scans, antibiotics, beds and so on. One of the questions is what will happen to the possible savings that there will be if we work together and therefore perhaps need less resources at different levels and areas. Is that taken away or is it given to do what is considered priority or important? So there's got to be a stimulus somewhere. If we are to work together and if we are to do more with less resources, then we must also get that piece that has been won. If one does not, there is no incentive to work together unless one is in love. If we work together, we also need new instruments. Think, for example, of a file that needs to be forwarded to another hospital. This requires good connections, ICT, programming and communication tools. Hospitals also need to do much more audit and accreditation. They must also develop and monitor quality systems. 18 percent of this has been financed. That will also be necessary, because one creates larger entities, which means more control. That's the downside. However, we do not see much of that. I don't read anything about that. However, these are concrete obstacles to the smooth functioning of cooperation. This is only about clinical cooperation, but the support and facility services are also included. Think about the clinical lab and the internal transport. If eight hospitals work together and in three of them one can treat a particular condition, then one has to transport the patients. How are you gonna do that? How are you going to finance that? I'm also thinking about the pharmacy function. Is that on the network level? How are you going to repay that? How are you going to stimulate that? Madam Secretary, the main reason why sp.a will abstain is the increased advice of the medical board. At present, this medical board can require a weighted opinion for five or six issues, if 75% of doctors so request. That will be possible in the future for 25 issues. If there's a weighted negative opinion, the case is blocked for six months. So you're gonna work together to make sure the doctors can block the hospitals on almost all issues. I know you had to find a consensus, but now I'm really speaking out of reality. That's what I'm holding my heart for. Madam Secretary, you should have taken advantage of this to not only make hospitals healthy and ensure affordable care for patients, but above all to get more hands on the bed. Staff costs in a company bring with them the highest costs. If one has to clean up a business, the temptation is very great to clean up there. If one combines this with a shortage of nursing, it is obvious that there are fewer hands on the bed. Everyone knows that less hands on the bed means less results. Madam Secretary, you give absolute freedom to the strongest and that is why paying attention to the wallet is impossible. You could have made better choices. This framework law is a missed opportunity. Too little too late.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u76	Mr President, I have already said it in committee, the design of this law is very good. Networks promote much-needed cooperation between hospitals. As colleagues have just said, this is an important first step. This is good for the patient, for the quality of care, for the efficiency of the organisation of care, for the cooperation between the different types of hospitals and hopefully also for the cooperation between the hospitals and the outpatient care providers. My concern is with the feasibility of the law, as there are still many uncertainties and many implementing decisions still need to be taken. Think of the feeling of great legal uncertainty about labour law and tax aspects when hospitals enter such a network, the problem of posting, the mixer of various statutes, the VAT transfer. Madam Minister, you have already given answers in committee, but I would like to reiterate the concerns of the sector in this respect. Nor is it clear what the supraregional tasks will be. Only when this is settled will the desired efficiency gains become apparent. Some colleagues have already mentioned it: this umbrella medical board can block things, the meeting time will increase. The sector itself believes that too much power is concentrated. The possibility of organising the ombud function at network level may result in a reduction in the class's less good pupils. The place of the first line, which is very dear to me, is indeed not clear either. Colleagues also talked about hospital funding and the fact that this should have been done in parallel, but it remains a first good step. However, no steps have been taken with regard to the re-evaluation of the nomenclature. However, this is a much more important lever than the networks, although these networks are needed. So for our group it is a yes but, and so we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u77	Mr President, I wish to apply Article 5 of the Code of Ethics of Members of the House of Representatives. I must admit that I was hesitant at the committee and I am referring to it after consulting the Ethics Commission. Based on this article, I state that I am an administrator at Saint-Luc University Clinics in Brussels. I know that other colleagues are administrators in hospitals, but they have not referred to this article 5 of the Code of Ethics. The Chair of the Ethics Commission wrote to me to state my status as an administrator. I would point out that I sit on a strictly voluntary basis and not for political reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u78	Let us be clear, if there are other members in the same case, I would ask them to mention it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u79	Mr President, I suspect that even more colleagues are drivers in a general hospital. I myself run the AZ Delta in Roeselare.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u80	Mr President, I am not a member of the committee, but I am the administrator of a general hospital in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u81	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u82	Mr President, I am also part of a board of directors, namely the General City Hospital in Aalst.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u83	Mrs Smaers, Mr Vercamer, you are asking for the floor? One thing leads to another.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u84	Mr President, it seems that we should come forward. I'm a driver at AZ Sint-Dimpna.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u85	Mr President, I am the director of the AZ Oudenaarde.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u86	Mr. Chairman, I intend to provide you with a copy of the letter signed by the Chair of the Federal Ethics Commission, even if it was addressed to me in my personal capacity. We may have an opportunity to discuss this on another occasion, for example in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u87	Those who want a copy can have one. I have just learned the existence of this opinion. We're going to look at what's in it. Apparently, the Ethics Commission spoke about being both a member of the Chamber and a director of a hospital.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u88	Mr President, we will be discussing this in the Conference of Presidents, but what is happening here makes absolutely no sense. Whether we are an expert in the field or not, we are parliamentarians first and foremost, and so we have not only the opportunity but above all the duty to discuss everything of a federal nature that is of interest to our Parliament. Later, we'll talk about justice. I'm a lawyer and that's not why I have to make a statement that, as a lawyer, my interest can go one way or another. We are representatives of the people, no more or less. That is all I wanted to say, but we will see the debate again in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u89	Mrs Onkelinx, we will indeed discuss this further in the Conference of Presidents. What is being said here is the first thing I hear of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u90	Mr President, I am only applying and following the opinion of the Federal Commission on Ethics, on the basis of the Code of Ethics that is required for all parliamentarians in this House. I didn't want to make it a whole lot, Mr. President, I assure you, but simply follow the rule. Minister, if I were to summarize this bill in a few words, I would say that it is missing the essential. Indeed, I have the feeling that your project is first and foremost based on a purely economic logic, and not at all on a public health logic that would be based on the needs of patients. To make it a success, it would have been necessary to do otherwise. I had hoped that you would have put forward five great conditions that are not in your bill. The first is the logic of patients. If there is an issue in a reform of the hospital landscape, it is that of new needs, the satisfaction of which must be guaranteed. Whether it is the lengthening of life, the ambulatory turn, the upstream and downstream of the hospital, the transmural care, the logic must first be to accompany the patients. We must also do this before and after the hospital, leaving a purely hospitalistic logic. We need to work with a logic that involves patients, different caregivers and different institutions, from home to hospital, to other types of institutions, such as nursing homes and nursing homes. Also within the framework of patient logic, we must guarantee the patient's freedom of choice. Although this has been added to the bill, there is still no clear way (at least in this project but also in the field) to ensure that it will indeed be a real freedom of choice for the patient. Patient logic again: in terms of accessibility of care, recognize that the logic of multiple sites may complicate patients' lives, not only in terms of geographical accessibility and consistency of care, but also in terms of financial accessibility. From the moment that the organization of care ensures that patients are transferred from one site or hospital to another, from one hospital site to another within a network, this will obviously entail significant costs. This point, which is absolutely not provided for in your bill, may indeed not be a problem if it is an autonomous patient, but not all patients are self-sustaining. In terms of ambulance transport costs alone, the situation may give rise to a number of issues which, today, have not been addressed or resolved. As far as the evolution of care is concerned, still in the patient's logic, you know today that the lengthening of life also requires a repositioning and questioning of the conversion of a certain type of service. One could even, why not, imagine - following the closure of beds or sites which your project will automatically entail - a conversion of sites or services in certain hospitals, for example in the form of specialized services, a real intermediate structure between the hospital and the institution or downstream care, whether it is the home or the nursing home. All this missing link on the downstream and after hospital in the present sense could and should have really been developed, certainly in conjunction with the different levels of power. I regret that this has not been achieved. The first logic, that of the patient, was, in my view, forgotten. The second aspect is quality and supervision. Through this networking, if there is one element that must be considered and on which progress must be made, it is nursing in hospitals. I could also talk about home nursing, but it's not the project we're dealing with. However, as far as nursing is concerned, should we recall that the European average is one nurse for eight patients versus one nurse for eleven patients in Belgium? Nursing teams are under pressure, even more so given the short stays that are becoming more frequent, the pathologies that are increasingly heavy, and the patients that are getting older; this is all the more important given the fact that the prognosis of patients and the quality of care are directly related to nursing supervision. This much worse framework in Belgium in quantitative terms compared to the European average therefore increases the risk of death and reduces the quality of care. This network project should have clearly addressed this fundamental point. If I talk about it, it's obviously because I'm linking it to the issue of hospital funding. That is the third aspect I would like to mention. This obviously goes hand in hand with the nursing team component I have just mentioned. My colleagues have already mentioned today the recognised and demonstrated underfunding. The MAHA study, in this case, has re-emphasized it recently. This isn't the first time. The situation is getting worse because, during this legislature, you imposed indirect savings, both by increasing burdens and new needs, by baraemic increases in staff that were no longer assured, by a decrease in the standard of growth and by its structural blockage, and by the failure to meet the objective of the growth standards that you yourself had set out in the government declaration, not for the last year but for the years before. A series of political decisions are also only partly, if not at all, financed, in addition to the application of European directives. I would like to offer you a series of examples that I will not repeat here. I will mention just one, namely the new low variability care system, which poses enormous problems on the ground. But there is also the situation of newborns who find themselves in intensive care. This is about the "n" centres. These children who are intubated with complex, heavy care are not taken into consideration since there is only one consideration via the mother. For the field teams concerned, there is an extremely severe damage. This is the result of the choice you made with the new funding for low variability care. This is an example, but there are many others. This is in addition to the indirect savings that have been applied to the hospital sector. All these savings have a direct impact on the patient, but also on the teams and especially on the teams of nurses. For your bill, you have based yourself on a 2017 study by KCE (the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise) which provides for a reduction of 1,063 beds by 2025. As hospitals and field workers say, the new savings will result in closures of services or even hospital sites. The emergency was mostly elsewhere. Reforming the hospital system, yes, but ensuring sufficient funding, proposing a clear vision of multi-annual funding, also ensuring stability to avoid direct and indirect savings that are imposed every three months, every six months without the hospital level having a clear financial vision. This would allow them to truly work calmly, but above all to work to develop future projects. Indeed, it is important that we can continue to work within each hospital on such projects. So many things that you have not done and that obviously will have to be radically changed under the next legislature, starting, first and foremost, with multi-year funding on which hospitals can really rely. The fourth major condition that you have not fulfilled and that poses a problem to me is the clarification of the rules that are still not known by the healthcare teams and by hospitals, particularly as regards the locoregional aspects and the programming. How many beds for a pediatric service? How many minimum births per service? You're not answering anything. During all our debates, you sent us back to future royal decrees and at the same time, you said to the hospitals: "Get out of the way and hurry! I'll give you the numbers later." It is still complicated for hospitals to build networks with certainty without even knowing what rules will be imposed on them afterwards. My logic, as a personal one, has always been to do bottom-up and not top-down. This requires sufficient flexibility and, above all, clarity. Your bill, in some respects, is an artistic blur that does not facilitate the establishment and implementation of agreements and networks on the ground. Everyone negotiated with everyone behind everyone's back. I'm afraid you're going down at some point with rules. I would also like you to clarify things today. Yes or no, are you going to release new royal decrees about hospital networks near or far before the end of this legislature? It is an element that you must convey to us in a transparent and very clear way today. The fifth major component you're going through is improving hospital governance. More and more, we have a vision that remains too pyramidal while we need more horizontality. Only hospitals are not involved. It must be noted that when caregivers are closely involved in hospital governance, and as they should be in the governance of tomorrow's networks, there is a much more positive dialogue between physicians and managers in both directions. Among the members who may be associated with the network board of directors, it would have been necessary to provide that, among the caregivers, the medical director, the institution's doctors, a general practitioner, and a nursing representative, who would, for his part, improve the management of the networks and a permanent dialogue with the caregivers. The goal is not to transform the board of directors into a bargaining place, but to ensure that everyone takes on a full director role. It is a pity that in your project, they are very little associated. This is far from enough for me. You may cause endless ping-pong games between boards of directors and medical boards. Internal tensions could have been avoided. I have tabled amendments on the various issues I have just outlined. They cover both funding, nursing supervision, clarification of rules and changes in the composition of network boards of directors, i.e. governance. For all these reasons, minister, we will not support your project and we will abstain. Before concluding, I would like to mention one last important subject for the Brussels-Capital Region, but also because we must respect, as legislators, the various articles of the Constitution and provide for legislation that respects both the rules of competence and the principle of equality. You have introduced, in committee work, an amendment incorporating the memorandum of understanding reached at the Interministerial Conference on the distribution of the 25 clinical and locoregional hospital networks between the entities responsible for accreditation. As far as the distribution of these 25 hospital networks is concerned, I fully agree with this proposal for a protocol. If I address this, it is absolutely not for the distribution of the 25 networks - up to thirteen for the Flemish Region, up to eight for the Walloon Region and up to four for the Brussels Capital Region, but which may include hospitals outside the Region. Of these four Brussels-Capital networks, three can be carried out in connection with the French-speaking federated entities and one with the Flemish Community. Parliament has sent an amendment to the Council of State because several colleagues and I consider your text to be a twofold problem, confirmed by the same body. Why? First of all, if your project is to be interpreted as allowing the Flemish Community to accept the Flemish Brussels network alone - if it includes one or more hospitals covered by the COCOM - then it ignores the rules governing the distribution of competences. Indeed, de facto, this network should be approved by the Flemish Community, but also by COCOM. The second problem with your text is the following. If it is to be interpreted as prohibiting Brussels hospitals under the jurisdiction of COCOM from belonging to the Flemish Brussels network, even though they may be included in a Brussels network with Walloon hospitals in the French Community, in this case it ignores the principle of equality. The Council of State clearly identifies this twofold problem, thus recognizing the relevance of the amendment I had tabled. It is simply intended - without in any way modifying the agreement on the distribution of networks - to amend your text so that it respects the Constitution and that a network constituted by the Flemish Community, which would include a hospital in the Brussels-Capital Region which is non-university and dependent on COCOM, is logically - and this is confirmed by the Council of State - approved by the Flemish Community as well as by COCOM. We completed the second reading in committee in November. At that time, you were not aware of the advice of the Council of State. In the meantime, you have been able to review this opinion. I therefore call on you to take a position on the basis of that opinion. The amendment I am proposing is very simple and does not call into question the memorandum of understanding on the various political aspects and on the number of networks to be allocated according to the different levels of power. Madam Minister, if this amendment is adopted – and the Constitution is therefore respected – no appeal against your law can be successful. I therefore propose that you secure your law from a legal point of view. Conversely, if this amendment is rejected and appeals against your law are brought, they will have a 100% chance of success. If this amendment is rejected and there is no appeal against your law, any attempt to create a Flemish Brussels network consisting of hospitals covered by the COCOM but which would not be approved by it would necessarily be annulled by the Council of State, following the request of a party which would be deemed to be aggrieved. I do not know what you have done since no member of your former majority has returned to the advice of the Council of State. I therefore do not know what you are going to do with this amendment. I call on you to choose the path to the legal soundness of this law. The Council of State gives me full reason and I am therefore reassured even if my amendment was rejected, since it gives your text the only interpretation in conformity with the Constitution. However, in your place, I would insist that this amendment be adopted, because it will protect you from appeals. You have nothing to lose in adopting it and everything to gain. It will ensure the soundness and legal certainty of this part concerning the Brussels-Capital Region. On the other hand, you have everything to lose by rejecting my amendment and those who, on the ground, experience instability following appeals. The latter, in the end, would undermine the whole process of networking. Finally, patients, especially those in the Brussels-Capital Region, would also lose. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen – since you are going to vote – I would therefore like to insist. Be careful that the Constitution is respected, but above all that the reality of the Brussels-Capital Region is respected, whether it be Dutch-speaking patients and hospitals or French-speaking patients and hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u91	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, as my colleague Anne Dedry has mentioned, we agree with you on the need for this bill and on the objective it pursues, namely, to increase collaboration and networking in the hospital community. However, we have a number of comments to make. The first concerns the procedure for the entry into force of the text. The entry into force of the text was set for 1 January 2020, which is an extremely short period of time, as it leaves only ten months for hospitals to organise themselves and to negotiate the concrete organisation between them of the different networks, the territorial organisation and the link with the first line. For our part, this leaves us only ten months to ensure that the work has been well done and that the health care needs of the population are met. We have therefore tabled an amendment to postpone the entry into force of the text on 1 January 2021. I invite you to vote for this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. The following remarks relate to the substance. Many of them have already been raised, and I wanted to dwell on three points in particular. First of all, I deeply regret the lack of link and inclusion of the first line in this plan. Then comes the question of network financing, which is absolutely not planned. In this regard, we will support the Socialist Party's amendment, which provides for a royal decree on the financing of the network. Finally, one issue that is not addressed at all in this text is the question of the reimbursement of travel expenses by INAMI for patients who will have to go further in order to obtain treatment. As a follow-up to this point, the important issue of the first line which will have to follow up the patient, who will have to be treated in a hospital located further away from his home, will also not be addressed. After the substantive questions, I come to the method. As usual, minister, the sector bitterly regrets the lack of consultation and listening. It's a great classic. I stress this once again. We also deplore the lack of linkages with other recent health-related issues, such as the recently passed governance legislation that could have assessed impacts and identified optimal aspects related to the current project. It's once again quite specific. We are in a partitioning dynamic where we isolate the elements, arguing that they have nothing to do with each other. This was again the case yesterday in the Health Committee on the Quality of Care Bill. We regret it. Health care policy is not built in a compartmentalized manner, without connections between the various elements. We can only regret once again the lack of a comprehensive public health policy vision that is shared with health care actors and with citizens-patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u92	Mr President, our group will also support what is going on here, but we would like to add a small comment at the request of our colleagues from Brussels. According to the draft, up to three networks of up to four Brussels networks will be recognised by different public authorities. They will be jointly recognized by several authorities, namely the Walloon Region, the Joint Community Commission, the French Community Commission and the French Community. The N-VA wishes to point out that the language regime is different for hospitals approved by the Joint Commission than for hospitals approved by the Walloon Region, the French Community Commission and the French Community. The hospitals approved by the Joint Community Commission should have care in the two languages, not only in French but also in Dutch. The hospitals approved by the Walloon Region, the French Community Commission and the French Community are monolingual French. This can have an impact on the care offered to the Dutch-speaking inhabitants of Brussels. Suppose, for example, that one of the Iris hospitals approved by the Joint Commission offers a service of urology. That service is then legally bilingual. However, within the framework of the network, it may be decided that this service of urology is centralised in the network in a hospital which is monolingual French for reasons of rationalisation. It is clear that this would undermine the bilingual nature of care in the Brussels region. Without blowing up the issue, we would nevertheless like to stress that, in the context of the networks under which bilingual hospitals, under the supervision of the Joint Committee, coincide with monolingual French hospitals, the recognition of such a network should not prejudice the existing bilingual care provided by the hospital recognized by the Joint Committee. This is also a legal prohibition contained in Article 5a of the Special Law of 12 January 1989 concerning the Brussels institutions. That Article provides that orders, regulations and administrative acts must not affect the bilingual nature of the proceedings or the existing guarantees which persons of the Dutch and French language are entitled to in the municipalities of the Brussels Region. This article is interpreted in a very broad sense and aims at the whole of the provisions currently in force which introduce specific rules for the benefit of individuals and, in general, all the provisions which protect individuals. Consequently, an order, regulation or administrative act cannot in any way depart from the rules currently in force for the benefit of Dutch speakers in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had very long discussions in committee in two readings for several weeks. The design has long been awaited on the site. They're organizing themselves there. In Flanders, the networks, in Wallonia, where they started later, are now also moving forward with tgv shipping. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed reform is in the best interests of the patient. If we continue to organise our hospitals as before, the quality of our care will be under pressure. The patient has the right to the best care. A similar reform took 20 years in Denmark. We have another method of organizing. We must consult very much with all the structures involved. Moreover, in our consultation model, this consultation is carried out through the inter-ministerial committee, in view of our complex state structure. A lot of work has crawled into that. There is indeed a vision in the design. It is about the fact that we need to organise hospitals differently in the area of specialised care, where competition is now under way. In basic care, the patient's choice is fully guaranteed. The free choice of the patient can always be guaranteed for the more specialised care. We must indeed work in a different way, and that means, as Mrs Muylle rightly said, that cooperation between hospitals is very important. We also give a lot of freedom; it is allowed, as I have underlined, to grow bottom-up. I do not want to be the mother-in-law of the networks, who have to organize themselves bottom-up. That is necessary, because the needs are different. Mr Thiéry has outlined it well: rural areas have fewer inhabitants than our capital. That is why we have also removed the criterion of the number of people. The yard on the financing of hospitals has advanced. The legislation on low variable care was adopted and has been in force since 1 January. Work is still under way on the truncation of the medication and the regulation of grafts. The nomenclature yard, to which several speakers referred, is also hard hit. A scientific team is in the process of drawing up a new baseline plan for the nomenclature. I also agree with the remark that it is the most difficult yard of all. It's been discussed for years. I raised the matter with Mr Vandeurzen when he was still in your place, Mrs Muylle. As far as programming is concerned, we have set up working groups on urgency, mother and child, and geriatrics at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Their reports are ready and completed. Work has been carried out with the Communities on this subject, but it will only be possible to work on it once the present legislative text has been adopted. Mrs De Coninck, you carried out a number of hospital mergers in Antwerp in difficult circumstances. That wasn't easy. It took eight years, but maybe that was harder then, because there was no legislation for it. There is a need for basic legislation on which to base itself. This is about better cooperation to achieve better quality care for the patient. Much has been said about so-called savings. However, I would like to point out the additional resources for hospitals. I am thinking of the IFIC, the SPD and the reduced staff expenditure from the tax shift. There was a one-time saving of 90 million euros. I really don't know where the 500 million euros are coming from. Where are the proceeds of efficiency gains going? For example, they can go to better care through more nursing hands on the patient's bed. I said from the beginning that this is not a savings plan. Expenditure on hospitals continues to rise, as does global spending. I've heard two bells here about the consensus model. Mrs Fonck said that the doctors do not have enough say and Mrs De Coninck talked about too much participation by the doctors. Let us say that we have found a good compromise à la belge in the consensus model. I notice that there are a lot of people here who are on board hospitals. They can establish in the field that it is necessary to involve doctors in the governance of a hospital. On the other hand, the governance of a hospital must not be limited to doctors. It's been a complex exercise. We know that the Knowledge Centre has provided a lot of supporting material. It is more specifically about a study that my predecessor, Mrs Onkelinx, ordered at the time. In the meantime, however, a state reform has been carried out and the recognition of the networks lies at the level of the Länder. However, the legal framework had to be regulated at this level, which required cooperation with the Länder. With regard to cooperation with the first line, the first-line zones were made, at least in Flanders, in such a way that they can develop in synergy with the networks. I assume that this will happen in the other Länder as well. Transmural cooperation in primary care is better for the patient. The patient always retains the freedom of choice. So the patient chooses the care he feels good about. In this context, in particular as regards proximity to care, there is a misunderstanding that has already emerged at the committee meeting. The closest care does not always mean the best care quality. For some things, for some interventions, one must have the courage to refer to where the expertise is. We know from supporting studies at the Knowledge Centre that this can affect not only the quality of the patient's life, but possibly even the fact that the patient survives his or her illness. It was also asked whether services would be closed. In the first instance, it is up to the networks themselves to reorganise themselves. If rationalisation is also carried out, e.g. removing services that are hardly occupied at the moment, then there will be more nursing hands for the rest of the patients. This can be ensured with the preservation of the sites. Standards were asked for. Mrs Fonck, for paediatrics, for example, you know that this is not possible. You've been a parliamentarian for too long, not to know, but I understand your little game. We must first vote on the law. As I said, these working groups have produced their report within the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Mrs Schlitz, you are talking about a lack of consultation. Others tell me I've done too many consultations! There again a misconception. Mrs Fonck, I come to the opinion of the Council of State. The amendments on which an opinion was delivered both deal with Article 6 of the draft law already adopted in committee. More specifically, the majority amendment No. 12 the maximum number of 25 hospital networks already laid down in Article 6. That amendment was adopted in committee and the majority amendment is a virtually literal copy of the protocol agreement approved by nine ministers at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health on 5 November. The protocol agreement in question was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 16 January 2019. Mrs Fonck's amendment is intended to allow the Brussels network for which the Flemish authorities act as approval authority to also be approved by the Joint Community Commission if this network contains bi-communal hospitals. This morning, I read in Le Soir that the Council of State apparently explicitly validated Mrs Fonck's amendment. I have also read the opinion of the Council of State. I note that on this 15-page opinion, the Council of State has only dedicated the last five lines to Amendment No 16. In these five lines, this validation is not mentioned anywhere, either explicitly or implicitly! After an in-depth analysis of the opinion of the Council of State, I note that the Council of State reaffirms once again and explicitly the powers of the federal government to determine a maximum number of networks and to anchor the distribution of this number among the recognised governments in a federal law. That is also what the Council of State said the first time. It is good that there is a protocol agreement, but anchor that in the law to get more legal certainty. There can therefore no longer be any discussion about this. It is logical that the Council of State does not have all the prior knowledge to grasp the nuances of the compromise reached within the IMC. The Council has therefore considered it advisable to ask a few questions about the correct scope of the text of Amendment No 2. 12. Following the answers to the questions, the Council of State concludes that the only possible interpretation of the text means that the Brussels network recognised by the Flemish Community can only contain hospitals within the competence of the Flemish Community. I therefore defended that statement in committee. That is also the question on the ground. The amendment expresses the wishes of the hospitals concerned and the sub-State authorities concerned in this respect. Contrary to Mrs Fonck's statement in her amendment, it is not true that it is possible to create a network between Flemish hospitals and bicommunal hospitals which are not approved by the Flemish Community. The division of powers simply does not allow this and this has been confirmed by the Council of State. The Council of State interprets the text of Amendment No 12 in the sense that bicommunal hospitals in Brussels are obliged to form a network with French-speaking hospitals within the competence of the French Community or the Walloon Region and that no network could be composed solely of bicommunal hospitals. However, the text clearly states that the other three networks will only be approved by different authorities "to the extent that the hospitals of a network fall within the competence of approval of different authorities". This sentence implies that all possibilities are possible and therefore also applies to a network composed solely of bi-communal hospitals. In any event, the protocol clearly states that the federated entities concerned will enter into agreements and will act fairly with regard to the composition of the other three Brussels networks. We therefore believe that the Council of State misinterpreted the existing text. The last point, I think, is that the best solution is to leave the amendment adopted in committee in its entirety. That amendment literally expresses the agreement reached with the Länder. Any adjustment would call that agreement into question again and, moreover, it would not be a good federalism for cooperation. Thank you for your work, colleagues. I hope that we will finally be able to move forward with all the work that is still on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3275/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3275/6) The draft law has 41 articles. The bill has 41 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u96	· 17 – Frédéric Daerden cs (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u97	· 16 – Catherine Fonck (3275/9) · 18 – Frédéric Daerden cs (3275/12) · 22 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u98	· 19 – Frédéric Daerden cs (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u99	· 23 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u100	· 20 – Frédéric Daerden cs (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u101	· 24 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u102	· 25 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u103	· 26 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u104	· 27 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u105	· 28 – Catherine Fonck (3275/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u106	· 21 – Sarah Schlitz cs (3275/12) · 29 – Catherine Fonck cs (3275/12) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u107	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15, 17, 27 and 41.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u108	Article adopted by article: 1 to 5, 9, 12 to 14, 16, 18 to 26 and 28 to 40.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u109	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u111	Mr President, as rapporteur, I would like to say that the report is very well written and that I have nothing to add to it. However, as a member of the PS, I have two brief considerations to make. Mr President, may I take this opportunity to express them here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u113	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I want to say that this 2005 Volunteer Rights Act provided for an evaluation after ten years, so that in 2015, at the end of the legislature, this bill was passed. It's very good, even if the calendar was a little dusty. But we are there and, as we said in Brussels, "Het was hoog tijd!" Secondly, we must thank the members of the Supreme Council of Volunteers for the work done to carry out this evaluation and to bring the content of the bill. They have done a really essential job, both in volume and quality. I wanted to report it. They are really the spokesmen of all the volunteers in this country. Finally, their role is to inform us, politicians, government and Parliament, on the adaptations to this legislation to be adopted, both on the basic law and on any other subject that concerns volunteers. Minister, I think the Supreme Council of Volunteers has played its part perfectly and fulfilled its role. He gave us valuable guidance that led to the consideration of this bill. We discussed it in committee. On some points, we have had some discussions, some amendments, but on the whole the content is quite positive. It updates this basic law of 2005. The draft reached consensus. It was adopted unanimously, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u114	Mr President, volunteering is very close to our heart, not only because it is very valuable to the volunteer himself, but also because it makes an important contribution to society. That is why it is best organised as easily as possible, so that anyone who wants to do so can do so voluntarily. There is therefore a need for a clear legal framework that provides legal certainty. The voluntary law of 2005 was a first step towards creating that framework, but after more than ten years, the law needed revision, as Mr Delizée rightly pointed out. The High Council for Volunteers has also fully evaluated the law and has identified three areas of work: the legislation needed to be clearer, the practice and interpretations by the various competent administrations needed to be clarified and additional measures had to be taken to finance studies and to raise awareness of citizens and organisations. The Supreme Court has made several recommendations on this matter in order to improve the law, for which, of course, thanks. The present draft law responds to these recommendations. It is better emphasised that voluntary work should be voluntary and that the only compensation that may be on the other side is an expense allowance. However, all real costs must also be reimbursed. It is therefore a good thing that those who volunteer for the transport of persons can also be reimbursed for all kilometres travelled. The fact that expenses are no longer subject to seizure is also positive. We are therefore very pleased that the revision of the law is before us today, which will create even more legal certainty for volunteers and organisations. We shall therefore fully support the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u115	Mr President, volunteering is very valuable in our society. For many it really makes a difference: for the volunteers themselves, for the people and/or the purpose or organisation that benefits and for our society as a whole. We therefore support any measure which encourages volunteering, inter alia, by clarifying the status of volunteers and further protecting them. The present draft law provides more legal certainty, clarifies the law and provides better protection and recognition of the important role of volunteers in our society, but we also endorse the comments made by the High Council for Volunteers. The text could have gone further for us, for example with regard to reporting to the RVA for the unemployed. At the moment, this is an unnecessarily cumbersome procedure, while volunteering can be of extra value to the unemployed. It offers them the opportunity to develop competences, build their self-esteem and self-confidence, if necessary, and build networks. All this has a positive effect on psychological and physical well-being and possibly also on re-entry into the labour market. Although the reporting obligation for us, as for the High Council for Volunteers, could simply be abolished, it is a step in the right direction that an administrative circular should be put in place to encourage the RVA to deal more flexibly with this reporting obligation, so that the unemployed no longer experience an unnecessary barrier to volunteering. Even if things were to go a little further for us, including in this area, we are aware that this bill represents a step forward and is very welcomed by the field itself. That is why we will approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u116	Mr President, I would like to add to what my colleague Evita Willaert has said. The principle of the text is a real step forward for volunteers, their rights and their work, which is important. We would have made other arrangements. I also wanted to make that clear, but we will support this text because it is a step in the right direction. I would like to take advantage of this speech in plenary to highlight the considerations of people on the ground, whom we consulted for the analysis of this text. I would therefore like to add two elements to the debate we are holding in plenary. The first tends to make a clear distinction between payment and tokens of presence, in order to ensure legal certainty for volunteers practising management and to prevent a problematic interpretation by the tax administration, drawn from the silence of the law. The second element I wanted to draw attention to is the legal certainty which must be brought to bear on the responsibility of the volunteers involved in management. We wanted to mention these two elements, which are the result of our contacts on the ground. Not everything is perfect in this law and that is why I wanted to insist on these two points, but it is moving in the right direction. Our group will therefore support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u117	Mr President, we will also support this text. That being said, I would point out that the High Council of Volunteers has advocated certain things that have not been followed. This text is far from perfect. There is a lack of clarity among a number of actors on the ground, including on legal certainty. This is the case with respect to the voluntary administrator. This is also the case with questions of civil liability, and the possible confusion between defraying and tokens of presence. This is still the same for the pre-NEO reporting component, which must be done by the job seeker before engaging in a voluntary activity. It would have been possible to facilitate access to volunteering. This is even one of the main demands of the Higher Council of Volunteers. This project does not take this into account. It is a pity for these different aspects. We shall, however, vote on the text. Nevertheless, it will be important to make it evolve further in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u118	Mr President, I believe it was necessary to make a thorough assessment of this law. I thank the High Council for Volunteers who have started to improve the rights of volunteers. I have already said in committee that the volunteers are more than 1 million in our country. They're actually the glue in our social fabric. Together with Mr Delizée, I was one of the authors of the original law in 2005. We are the dinosaurs of this committee. I am very pleased that other committee members have also cooperated in a positive way. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, we could have gone even further. However, we have not been able to reach agreement on this issue. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to improving the voluntary status and finding a solution to the semi-agoral work. The latter has always been a blind spot in this legislation. Is this the ideal world now? Is this all we can do? No, there is still work to be done, but that will be for the next government and the next minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u119	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3428/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3428/4) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u122	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Stefaan Vercamer, Griet Smaers, Roel Deseyn, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u124	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u125	Mr President, I would like to speak briefly without repeating the debate we have had in committee. I could have spoken at the time of the vote. I would like to explain why my group will abstain on this draft in the vote, recalling the points raised in committee that relate to privacy issues. These are questions that have been raised and which, unfortunately, I have not been able to answer. This project is a good idea because it actually aims at administrative simplification - but having a good idea is not enough, especially when it comes to circulating millions of personal information. It would have been necessary to win the support of my group for this law to be more precise, in particular on the question of what personal data will be exchanged and by which authority? We should have had answers on how citizens can give specific consent tomorrow when they have to give or withdraw this consent in bulk for all types of data and for all authorities. These are obviously not personal requirements. This seems to me to be just a response to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which has been so fiercely negotiated. In addition to this, the fact that this project confirms two trends which have unfortunately been largely initiated by this government: on the one hand, the fact that the private sector is entrusted with the protection of personal data held by the administration and, on the other hand, the fact that it is not responsible for giving extraordinary powers to the administration without having real democratic control. These are the reasons why my group will abstain from this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u126	Mr President, the project on the electronic exchange of messages through the eBox is really important for the citizen who must be sure that the data are properly protected. Since 25 May last year, we have worked on the basis of the General Data Protection Regulation. All elements of the latter were respected. The data is protected. Specific consent must be given by the user before the data concerning the user can be used. In doing so, I think I can say that we are strictly part of the GDPR. This aspect is, in my view, important. Indeed, the eBox can only function if the exchange is secure and if it is certain that the data are protected, which is the case in so far as the system effectively respects as much as possible the protection of data relating to citizens by avoiding leaks. It was very important for me to respect the privacy of individuals. That is what has been done with this project. From now on, we will be sure to have a legal basis for the exchange of information and electronic messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u127	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3442/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3442/4) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Leen Dierick, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3447/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3447/3) The draft law has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u133	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Karine Lalieux, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u134	Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of this text, which will be adopted today, no doubt unanimously. It is an important cultural element on the day of the opening of the Book Fair.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u135	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3478/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3478/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u138	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2261: Rita Gantois, Roel Deseyn, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luk Van Biesen, Nathalie Muylle, Carina Van Cauter, Jef Van den Bergh, David Clarinval, Leen Dierick, Sarah Smeyers - 608: Nathalie Muylle, Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh, Leen Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Roel Deseyn, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 January last, the Belgian Federation of Groenvoeders signed on its Facebook page: "We are not letting go of the VAT dossier'. The next day, it said, "We did it." Furthermore, it was also written: "This is a historic breakthrough." Yes, it's historic. After all, the VAT anomaly dossier, which has been perceived as problematic in the sector for years, has been in the Chamber for a long time. However, this sector accounts for around 8 000 companies, 9 000 employees and an estimated turnover of EUR 1.5 billion. It is therefore with conviction and great satisfaction that I am allowed to take the floor here today. We, too, have not let go of the dossier. What's it about? With the bill we bring the VAT rate for the sale of plantings by gardeners from 21% to 6%. I'd like to give some explanation. When a gardener buys plantings in a garden center, he pays 6 % VAT. He may have to charge 21 % VAT to his customer, but if the owner of the garden himself buys his plantings, he will pay 6 %. It's not hard to figure out which doors the system opened. In practice, we saw the customer buying the planting material himself, which he had picked up and planted by the gardener. Logically, a black circuit developed here next to the official. Indeed, it is difficult to bill the planting of non-officially purchased planting material. So those hours were done in black. Companies that worked correctly were pushed out of the market in this way. Socially, the bill also has an important function. The sector provides a great deal of work for risk groups such as young or low-skilled workers. In practice, gardeners who work officially pay more attention to safety standards and deal more carefully with, among other things, mileage allowances and reduced working hours. The bill can also give a positive boost to the greening of our society. Of course, this has a cost, but it is our sincere conviction that the reduction in the VAT rate will make the sector and the state treasury better in the long term. Now the treasury will undoubtedly lose revenue: VAT, RSZ contributions, income taxes. With our proposal, we are taking a step forward in the fight against fraud and in informing the sector. Attempts from the past to correct the problems failed. Well, today we are correcting the distorted situation and responding to the pressing demand and concern of the sector. I am very pleased to be able to put a text to the vote today. I would like to thank all those who have contributed positively, not least the former Minister Johan Van Overtveldt and his cabinet. Of course, I would also like to thank all the colleagues from the other groups. It took time, but the acceptance and will to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion grew, with today's final adoption of a text on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u141	Mr President, I just want to confirm what my colleague has just said. When my colleagues came to me and explained to me that it was a matter of correcting a VAT rate problem, as I was a tax adviser, I immediately realized that there was indeed a problem. It was a good idea to solve it. So, together with my colleague Clarinval, on behalf of the MR Group, we supported this proposal, which enables us to combat practices of distortion of competition by aligning the VAT rate on plants, bought in stores or implemented by a professional. It is true that this correction has a cost, but there will probably be a return effect since it will help to combat practices that are not official.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gantois has well outlined the importance of the legislative proposal that we are discussing and which will be put to the vote. I would just like to take the floor, because I would also like to speak on behalf of my late colleague, Paul Tant, who in 1999 initiated the VAT system for ornamental farming to 6%. That law, in 1999, actually created discrimination for gardening. Now, twenty years later, we have finally managed to lift that discriminatory measure. Last weekend, I talked to a lot of people in the sector. More than 16 000 people are employed in this sector today and more than 7 000 low-skilled workers, including in the social economy. The currently proposed VAT reduction offers a future perspective for those workers. After all, as my colleague said, the measure was highly sensitive to fraud. We also saw more and more that customers bought their plants from wholesalers themselves and that the garden contractors were only allowed to deliver the work. With the measure we are voting on today, we can once again give a future to that beautiful sector in Flanders. We must not forget that this sector is also very vulnerable. I have met companies that now export more than 50% to England. These companies therefore have a lot of questions about the future. With this measure, therefore, I believe that we are taking an important step forward for this sector. My proposal dates back to 2006. I would therefore like to thank those colleagues who have been my associates throughout all these years. In particular, I refer to Mr Van Biesen. I am therefore pleased that there is a very strong support for the adoption of this measure today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the agony in this House, which Mrs Muylle described beautifully and which began in 1999, lasted for 20 years. All honour goes to the late Mr Tant and Mr Denys, who together carried and passed the relevant bill in 1999 and who tried to convince the Members of Parliament. It was only twenty years later that it was understood that this was not an ideological choice or a great vision of VAT as such, but a fundamental anomaly in legislation. When a person buys a plant on the market, he or she pays 6 % VAT. When that man or woman asks someone else to plant that plant in his or her garden, he or she suddenly has to pay 21 % VAT. Especially for the urbanised and outdated districts, where all the front gardens used to be full of beautiful plants and herbs, we would like to take this proposal a step in the right direction, so that the gardens, front gardens and popular gardens, which we have seen have become too expensive and because many people have become too old to be able to maintain them themselves, can be restored back into their old glory. They can now appeal to a professional gardener at the same price as if they were buying the plants themselves. That's the essence of the story. The proposal eliminates an anomaly. I would therefore like to thank all those who have worked on this in recent years. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Muylle, with whom we tabled the proposal in 2006. I would also like to thank Mrs Gantois, who then really pushed through the proposal as a priority legislative proposal. During the discussion in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we received a great deal of support from the Greens, who suddenly noticed that plants were also part of their business. All madness on a stick, they have fully supported us, even during the decision-making process. In other words, I thank everyone, because it is happening now and because the anomaly is being eliminated. Let us all change Flanders, Belgium, Brussels and Wallonia and make them more beautiful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u144	Mr President, we confirm to the House that we have supported and that we will continue to support this measure because it is a labour-intensive sector and it is a question of re-designing our lands, planting trees and plants, which is essential for biodiversity. We can hope for an effect to combat a form of VAT fraud and support for a high-labour-intensive sector. Of course, it has a cost! We can hope for a return effect. I note, for the report, that colleagues at this end of the legislature are particularly generous. As ecologists, we will remain attentive to the balance of public finances. I have no doubt that Mr. Van Biesen et al. will be paying close attention to tax justice and the effective fight against fraud. I thank them already for supporting our next proposals in this area. Long live the sector because it plays an important role in improving our living environments and capturing CO2 by planting trees!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u145	Mr President, a debate on VAT is always an opportunity to remember the principles that govern the setting of rates. When one goes back to the history of the Sixth VAT Directive, which organizes the common VAT system in all the Member States of the European Union, one sees, in the reasons for applying a reduced VAT rate, the criterion of whether it is a good, a provision of services, a product of primary necessity. Among the criteria is to consider whether or not a product is of primary necessity, not only but certainly. This is why water or food benefit from a reduced rate of VAT at European level. The same Sixth Directive, which has evolved and has become a full-fledged directive, provides for the possibility for the Member States also to apply a reduced rate of VAT on electricity and precisely because of its essential character. That is why, in order to be consistent with what motivated the setting of a reduced VAT rate, we are tabling an amendment proposing that Parliament reduce the VAT rate from 21 % to 6 % on electricity. If we ask for a VAT rate on electricity reduced to 6%, it is because it is a basic product. That's the only reason. It's not a luxury to light up, just as it's not a luxury to heat up with gas. I do not understand that today some people consider that a VAT rate of 6% can be applied to plants and flowers or, more generally, to gardening - I can design it and understand the reasons - while refusing to reduce the VAT on electricity from 21% to 6%. I see something that is not justifiable and for which you have no arguments. The reduction of VAT on electricity is necessary for social justice considerations. People don't have to pay a 21% tax on electricity, a basic necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u146	Mr President, I would like to speak on two points. I would point out that it was my colleague Dispa who spoke in committee on this subject. We will support this project. It's Valentine's Day. I do not know if making this reduction of VAT on flowers today is intentional. Mr. Van Rompuy tells me he does. That's a great story! They're men who can talk to women. Let's get a little more serious. As much as we are in favour of a reduction in the energy bill - especially for those households that need it most -, honesty requires us to remind ourselves that the difficulty of reducing VAT to 6%, as you designed it in your proposal and in your amendment, is that it has a wage impact. Indeed, indexation will be slowed down. Such an option is therefore problematic. We are in favour of a mechanism that could either reduce VAT to 6%, but without any negative impact on income - as you have drawn up - or reduce the weight of the energy bill. On the other hand, we absolutely want to link it to everything about insulation in order to avoid a vicious circle of consuming more while the objective must be to consume less and better. Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues. A number of years ago, we tabled a bill to reduce VAT on glasses and lentils. The problems of visual acuity are indeed a real handicap for both children and adults with both learning difficulties, driving difficulties and work difficulties. Glasses and lenses are anything but a luxury. They are essential to see and therefore live on a daily basis. I have still not been able to pass this bill in the Health Committee. I therefore take this opportunity to bring this matter through an amendment aimed at reducing VAT on glasses and lenses. This is an important issue. I interviewed the minister yesterday. You were there, Mr. Van Rompuy. I've seen some colleagues in the majority nod to my head and say I'm right. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore all that remains to be done. I would like to add one more detail, not without importance. The European Directive fully permits the adoption of this bill. Moreover, if we look at the Member States of the European Union, we are among the last countries to apply such a high VAT rate on glasses and lentils. Some countries apply a 4% VAT rate on devices to correct visual acuity deficits. We are one of the Member States of the European Union where the cost of lenses and glasses is one of the highest. This 15% reduction with the change in VAT from 21% to 6% is a major issue for patients. Wearing glasses is essential for some. Whether it's for younger people or older people, it's really a basic product. Colleagues, thank you, who will have the audacity in this day-to-day business, for thinking more about the interests of patients than at government levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u147	Mr President, I would like to talk briefly about what Mr Laaouej said about the amendment he is tabling. Mr Laaouej, I would like to remind you that we rejected this amendment in the Finance Committee by a large majority. It is a pity that he has to deal with this bill, which is a bill that eliminates an anomaly and is not the subject of ideological discussion. Mrs Fonck, it is a pity that we have not discussed this in the Finance Committee so far. This bill may be pending in the Health Committee, but when it comes to reducing VAT on glasses and lenses, that is something that should in principle be discussed in the Finance Committee. Mrs Fonck asked that question yesterday in the Finance Committee. I am convinced that in our committee there is a willingness to discuss this, not only the reduction of VAT, but also the tax deductibility of glasses, which is a necessary instrument. I would like to remind you that the tax authorities today reject any purchase of glasses for employees or managers in principle from the accounts of each manager. In normal circumstances, being able to work with the possibilities that one has, whether or not using glasses or lenses, is something that can certainly be the subject of a discussion within the Finance Committee, and I am talking not only about VAT, but also about tax deductibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u148	Mr President, the intervention of Mr. Van Biesen doesn't surprise me. He spoke in committee. He did not understand that electricity was a basic commodity and that, for that reason, there was no reason for the State to levy 21% of taxes. Yes, Mr. Van Biesen, that's the difference between you and us. We think of households that have trouble with their electricity bills, of all those who benefit from the social rate, who see their bill increase by 22%, of the increase in the price of electricity due in particular to supply problems. In short, you do not understand that it is necessary today to help households and reduce their energy bills. It is a matter of principle: electricity is a commodity of primary necessity and there is no question of keeping the VAT rate at 21%. It has to be reduced to 6%. That is our position. Mrs Fonck, on the other hand, explains to us that she fears that there will be an increase in wages via automatic indexation, on the grounds that reducing VAT from 21 % to 6 % - which is exactly the opposite in reality - would prevent automatic indexation of wages and lead to a loss of wages. Is not Mrs Fonck afraid that she will be opposed to her own argument for the amendment she is proposing to reduce VAT on glasses? This can also lead to lower inflation and therefore to a delay in automatic wage indexation. I support your amendment, but I very much fear that others will oppose you as well. I take away an argument immediately: glasses represent 0.9% of the expenses in the housewife's basket; electricity is 4%. But when it comes to inflation, we are sometimes beyond the comma. It can be played at 0.9%. The argument that you are mobilising against electricity may be opposed to you with regard to the reduction of VAT on glasses. I will conclude by saying that this argument of automatic indexing is absurd. This can be seen with the Plan Office, which has just announced a carry-over of the Pivot Index to December 2019, with an effect in February 2020. This proves that the increase in VAT that you have decided has no decisive effect on the evolution of inflation, the household basket and, consequently, on automatic wage indexation. Your argument is absurd for a second reason, namely that the objective of good public and economic policy is to combat inflation and avoid an increase in the cost of living. By acting on the cost of living, you obviously allow this mechanism repairing automatic indexing not to intervene, because it is a repairing mechanism and the first fight is to fight against expensive life. But this, obviously, you do not want to hear it and you bow to an argument that is completely absurd.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u149	Mr President, Mrs Fonck's amendment comes from the motion for a resolution which was discussed and then voted away in the Committee on Health. We in the N-VA then explained our position and that has not changed in the meantime. Through the compulsory supplementary health insurance, the sickness funds already provide for a refund for glasses and lenses of between 40 and 50 euros per year. The people who are connected to the auxiliary cash won't get that. In the meantime, however, this group enjoys a lower annual membership fee. The N-VA would prefer it not to be regulated by compulsory supplementary insurance. However, a tax discount is not the solution for us. We would prefer to delete the compulsory supplementary insurance and replace it with a system whereby the benefits that are useful and evidence-based are refunded by the RIZIV. In this way, all benefits apply to everyone, including those who are members of the Auxiliaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u150	Mr. President, we don't buy glasses every day. We need electricity every day. We are told that the reduction of VAT on glasses will have the same impact on the reduction of wage increases via indexation as the reduction of VAT on electricity I no longer follow you at all. Correct your text and we will support it. In the absence of a correction to the text, we will abstain from your amendment. As far as glasses and lenses are concerned, my text is still awaiting a vote in the Committee on Health. You have to play on both sides. In adults, for example, we only have the support of health insurance when there is a loss of visual acuity beyond 8.25. I mean, you can't see anything! We must play both on the reimbursement and on the reduction of VAT, as almost all the Member States of the European Union have done. It is as if you were taking a medicine or if you had a device to accompany a disability: VAT is 6%. Mr Van Biesen, you could do two strikes with one stone today. With glasses, you could see the flowers better! Rather than postponing it, I suggest that you vote today for this reduction in VAT on glasses and lentils.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u151	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u152	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2261/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2261/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u153	Art. 2/1(n) • 1 – Catherine Fonck cs (2261/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u154	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 2/4(n) • 4 – Karin Jiroflée cs (2261/7) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u155	Sustained: the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u156	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u157	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u158	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Servais Verherstraeten, Patrick Dewael, David Clarinval, Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Stefaan Van Hecke, Marcel Cheron, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Laurette Onkelinx, Francis Delpérée.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u159	Pursuant to Rule 85 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee is taken as the basis for the discussion of the sole Rule. (2628/10) In accordance with Rule 85(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion of the single rule. (2628/10) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Biesen and Mr Flahaux, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when many researchers are hoping for a "dust removal" of the Constitution, we are responding to it in practice today but, of course, in part by amending Article 149 of the Constitution, which requires publicity of the pronunciation of judgments. As Mr Cheron knows, this advertising is obviously fundamental. It is also at the heart of the European Convention on Human Rights. Why is this fundamental? To ensure a fair trial. To protect litigants from secret justice beyond the control of citizens, but also to preserve citizens' confidence in courts and tribunals. That said, it must be noted that it sometimes takes some crazy time. There are judgments that make hundreds, even thousands of pages. In addition, there are other ways in the modern world to preserve the essential right to a fair trial, to the publicity of judgment, than simply public pronunciation. That is why, on behalf of the PS Group, I tabled a bill. I am very pleased that all the democratic groups in this Parliament have really wanted to support this dynamic. I want to thank them for that. Having said that, the Council of State told us: "It's beautiful, but you have a little problem with the Constitution. We have to change it." Both the European Court and the Court of Cassation had already said that a little more flexibility could be introduced. In any event, we have decided to "dust" the Constitution. There is obviously a need for publicity, but it is the legislator who must, in a way, organize this publicity – except in criminal matters, where the mechanism must always be given in public hearings. As you will see, but I am not going to talk about it for a long time here because the bill that was unanimously passed in the Committee on Justice will be promulgated next week or in fifteen days, we have taken the time to marry the various principles that can intervene. During his hearing, Sébastien Van Drooghenbroeck stressed in particular the need to take into account the right of litigants, who also want to know and understand the decision taken by a magistrate. There is the public interest to be able to access court decisions, in particular because case law is a formal source of law. But the protection of privacy involved in the court decision must also be ensured. In particular with digitisation: if the court decision is no longer pronounced but is published on the Internet, this could give rise to some difficulties with the extraneous use of this method. We have all worked together and worked so that at the same time we can marry a principle of efficiency of justice, save time for hearings, but also preserve the principle of fair trial and the need for litigants to understand what happens to them when a court decision is made. That is, in a few words, the meaning of this amendment to the Constitution. We have little time for this end of the legislature. After today's vote, which I hope will not pose a problem, the Senate will still have to vote. We are therefore in a race against time, but I really hope that with this common desire to review and see this bill become a law, we will have taken an additional and consensual step towards a better administration of justice, in accordance with the law of the litigants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u161	Mr President, the compromise on this proposal for a constitutional change that we have reached with several colleagues, for which I am grateful, stipulates in the last paragraph that the decision-making part is read out in public session in criminal matters. My personal preference was not to include that last paragraph in the constitutional article. Without that provision, it is perfectly possible to read the decision-making part of a judgment or judgment in criminal matters. Of course, judgements and judgments, when they concern public opinion or when the parties request them, must be read out, but above all for educational value rather than for publication. I find the compromise acceptable, because it goes beyond the codification of an existing practice. Many judges and counsellors deal smoothly with the current constitutional article. Indeed, there are now better ways of making judgments and judgments known. In particular, I think it is a good compromise, because it needs to be read together with the legislative proposal to amend the Code of Justice and the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the publication of judgments and judgments, as Mr Onkelinx said. The amendment of the Civil Code, in particular Article 782a, aims not only to read out the decision-making part of a judgment, but also to make electronic databases of judgments and judgments accessible by anonymisation, with due respect for the privacy of the parties. The immediate consultability of judgments and judgments by parties at the Registry is also very important. This takes over a good practice that already exists at the Constitutional Court and at the Council of State, by other courts. Citizens are entitled to immediate access to judgments and judgments which concern them. Public opinion also has the right, for various reasons, to have access to judgments and judgments in an anonymised manner, because it is an extremely important source of law. I would therefore like to thank colleagues and hope that, together with the Senate, we can complete the adoption of the proposal and the constitutional article before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u162	Mr President, we do not change the Constitution every day. A constitutional change doesn't just have to be about state reform. Fortunately, our Constitution also contains articles other than articles relating to the establishment of the state. There are also articles that deserve an update, such as Article 149. That's an old article. It has already been explained what the purpose of the amendment is. We have worked constructively on this, beyond the limits of majority and opposition. I would also like to thank the majority colleagues and the opposition for the constructive debates that we have had in the preparation and during the committee meetings and which will be followed up in the Justice Committee, because, of course, a law will have to be adopted to implement this change. In concrete terms, therefore, it will no longer be compulsory to read a judgment in its entirety. The decision-making part will suffice. That's gonna take a lot of time. There have been trials in the past, for example around Lernout & Hauspie, with statements of hundreds or perhaps even thousands of pages, for which three days in a piece had to be read by three magistrates of the appeal court or of the court of first instance. That is a huge waste of time, and that can be remedied in this way. What is important, however, is to reflect and ensure that the ruling can be communicated in a smooth manner, not only to the parties involved.......................................................................................................................................................................................... It is important that we also jump on the train of computerisation, which can help with this, but we must also take into account matters such as privacy. It will be further developed in a legislative proposal which will hopefully be put to the vote in a few weeks' time. It is an historic moment that this constitutional article can be amended. I remember the time when I was pleading as a lawyer. When we went to the Constitutional Court, a ruling was made and we left the courtroom, the text of the ruling was available on paper. That was not yet the official version, but an unofficial, unadjusted version, so that the parties could immediately take note of the content of the argument of the judgment, because the Constitutional Court also read only the decision-making part. We will have to introduce this way of working in the courts and courts. Then it will be interesting and a great advantage for lawyers and law seekers as well as for the general public. We will therefore strongly support this amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u163	Mr President, we have before us a proposal to amend Article 149 of the Constitution. We support it for reasons of modernity, legality and citizenship. I'll explain. With regard to the reasons for modernity, article 149 of the Constitution (art. 97 in its original version) addressed a concern to ensure that judgements were delivered and read in open court. The decision as a whole had to be communicated in this way. It is an obligation that is somewhat out of date at the present time. There are other means of information, other technical means to ensure the publicity of judgments and judgments. With regard to the grounds for legality, the first version before us stated that the publicity of judgments and judgments could be ensured "by virtue of" the law, which, in fact, left the executive power with a wide margin of appreciation, while we were in a matter that touched on rights and freedoms, and in particular on the protection of privacy, as the experts and the Council of State have told us. These are issues that must – not only can, but must – be settled by the legislator himself. The text has therefore been amended to provide for intervention "by" the law. The experts we have heard on this subject have joined this way of reasoning. Modernity, legality and citizenship, because if we have to – the expression has already been used here – relax the rules in this area, it seemed that an important exception had to be maintained, namely that the delivery in public of judicial decisions taken in law enforcement matters had to be maintained. These are the reasons why we adhere to the text on our table. I do not need to recall that the text was adopted unanimously by the members present in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u164	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal for a revision shall be held. The vote on the proposed revision is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u165	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Piedboeuf, Vincent Scourneau, Gautier Calomne, David Clarinval, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Emmanuel Burton, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Philippe Goffin, Kattrin Jadin, Olivier Chastel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u166	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Roel Deseyn and Ahmed Laaouej refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u167	I am reporting orally on the work done in the Finance Committee, where an amendment to the proposal has just been discussed. That amendment No. 3 is intended to correct a text which has been incorrectly amended, which could be a problem. The change in the Income Tax Code in order to increase the tax exempt amount for volunteers should also continue to apply to those working in a flexi job agreement. They were not included in the original misrecorded amendment. I believe that the new text solves the problem. In committee, Amendment No. 3 adopted by 8 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The overall Piedboeuf bill was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the chairman of the committee has pointed out, the text has been voted unanimously. Of course, we are all concerned about the fate of firefighters, paramedics and civil protection officers. For the most part, we are all municipalists or former municipalists and therefore know the essential role of volunteers in the rescue and fire services. As we found a small distortion in the flexi-job provision, which provided for an exemption of EUR 500 per month, the proposal aims to adapt the status of volunteer firefighters, civil protection officers and ambulance workers so that they can benefit from an exemption equivalent to EUR 6 000 per year. The difference is that, as we change the base amount, it will evolve according to indexation. This measure responds to a double need, which was both to find volunteers and to keep them active, even when they reached the old ceiling, which was about 4,800 euros. This proposal was immediately adopted by colleagues. I thank them all for this support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u169	Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for supporting our amendment tabled by Mr Deseyn. It is a problem that I have been addressing since 2015, namely the fact that voluntary ambulance workers working in an ambulance centre in the private sector or in a hospital were approached differently from those working in Civil Protection or the fire department, while they all received the same training. I am pleased that this discrimination has now been eliminated and that the compensation has been increased to EUR 6 000. In this way, volunteers are prevented from dropping out halfway through the year, because they are at their limit. I would like to thank everyone, because this discrimination has finally been eliminated, and I have been calling for it for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u170	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u171	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3287/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3287) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u172	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u173	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Daphne Dumery, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Nahima Lanjri, Stephanie Thoron.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u174	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf and Mr Luk Van Biesen, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u175	Mr President, this proposal, which was unanimously adopted at the committee meeting, does away with unequal treatment. Anyone who started working early will no longer be treated unequally when taking up the supplementary pension thanks to the present proposal. Under the current scheme, a person who takes up a supplementary pension at the age of 65 must pay 10% of the tax, but if the person concerned takes up the supplementary pension earlier, the tax is 16.5 %, 18% or 20%, depending on the date of withdrawal, even if the person concerned has a career of less than 45 years at the age of 65. Anyone who started working early and builds a career of 45 years before reaching the age of 65 is thus sanctioned by a higher tax burden than anyone who raises that capital at 65 years of age. There was no such problem in the past, but in 2017 we amended the legislation, which obliges those who retire legally to take up the supplementary pension at that time. Those who have reached a full career before the age of 65 are also charged with the present proposal of 10%, and no longer 16.5 %, 18 % or 20 % when the person concerned retires a number of years before the age of 65. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members who have supported and supported this proposal, as well as the Minister, who has cooperated with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u176	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u177	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2857/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2857/9) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u178	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u180	Mr President, I am sure that colleagues would like to have a full account of this report. But I feel that they are also eager to vote on all the good projects we have discussed today. I therefore refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u181	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u182	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3443/3+1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3443/3+1) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u183	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u184	Colleagues, we normally had to proceed to the vote on the appointment of the alternate members and the members of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In extremism, i.e. this afternoon, critical remarks have been made about the ballot. Because I want to avoid mistakes, I'm going to postpone this vote to next week. In the meantime, I am going to ask the services for advice, so that we are sure. We shall then vote on this next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u185	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals whose consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 February 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Law of 18 March 2016 on the Federal Pension Service, in order to authorise the FPD to grant subsidies to certain federations and organisations representing war victims and their rightholders, No. 3541/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and Mrs Evita Willaert cs) to improve the status of artists, No. 3543/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Spooren) for reform of the unemployment regulations, No. 3544/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri cs) amending the law of 4 December 2007 on the social elections, the law of 20 September 1948 on the organisation of business and the law of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work, No. 3546/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u186	- the legislative proposal (Mr Kristof Calvo cs) to reform the petition law, No. 3542/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Veerle Heeren cs) amending provisions relating to the integrated police, No. 3547/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u187	- the legislative proposal (Mr Philippe Goffin cs) laying down various provisions on computerization of justice and modernisation of the statute of judges in business cases, No. 3549/4.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u188	- the legislative proposal (Mr Dirk Janssens) amending the Code of Companies and Associations with regard to the donations and annual accounts of associations and foundations, No. 3550/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u189	- the proposal (Mr André Frédéric cs) amending the Code of Conduct for Members of the Chamber of Representatives, No. 3552/1; - the proposal (Mrs Monica De Coninck) to amend Rule 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives as regards the incompatibility of the President of the Chamber, No. 3553/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u190	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 February 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms Stéphanie Thoron and Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Act of 18 March 2016 relating to the Federal Pension Service with a view to allowing the Federal Pension Service to grant subsidies to certain federations and works which act in favour of the victims of the war and their successors, No. 3541/1; - the bill (Ms Véronique Waterschoot and Evita Willaert et al.) improving the status of artists, No. 3543/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Jan Spooren) to reform the regulation of unemployment, No. 3544/1; - the draft law (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri et al.) amending the Act of 4 December 2007 on social elections, the Act of 20 September 1948 on the organization of the economy and the Act of 4 August 1996 on the welfare of workers in the performance of their work, No. 3546/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u191	- the bill (Mr Kristof Calvo et al.) reforming the right to petition, No. 3542/1; - the bill (MM. Franky Demon and Mrs Veerle Heeren et al.) amending provisions on integrated police, No. 3547/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u192	- the proposal for a law (Mr Philippe Goffin et al.) laying down various provisions on the computerisation of justice and the modernisation of the status of consular judges, No. 3549/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u193	- the proposal for a law (Mr Dirk Janssens) amending the Code of Companies and Associations concerning the annual accounts of associations and foundations, No 3550/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u194	- the proposal (Mr André Frédéric et al.) amending the Code of Ethics of Members of the House of Representatives, No. 3552/1; - the proposal (Ms. Monica De Coninck) to amend Rule 5 of the Rules of the House of Representatives with regard to incompatibilities for the Speaker of the House, No. 3553/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u195	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also suggest that you consider: - the bill (Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down provisions on reimbursement of pharmaceutical specialities, No. 3555/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u196	I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down provisions for the reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products, No 3555/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u197	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u198	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgent consideration of the legislative proposal No. 3555. The bill is the transposition of the Bill No. 3535. It is good for the patient and for the treasury, because it imposes savings on the pharmaceutical sector and it will reduce the prices of medicines for the patient. These measures were decided by the government last year, during the budgetary conclave, in full powers and were approved by the General Council of the RIZIV. However, this is urgent: there are important budgetary consequences linked to the legislative changes that we are proposing here, and these changes were taken into account in the drafting of the budget. In order for the bill to be correct, we must implement these savings which, I repeat, benefit patients as quickly as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask for the application of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure to this bill in the interests of patients and health insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u199	Mr. Speaker, everyone has understood that this is a bill that has been transformed into a bill. I learned not to be naive anymore. I therefore repeat what I said in the Conference of Presidents. The Minister of Health must be present when considering this proposal/project as it is in fact a project. I also propose that, if there have been opinions (Council of State, medico-mut, etc.)), the various documents are transmitted to us in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u200	This was agreed in the Conference of Presidents with the agreement of the Government. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall first vote on a legislative proposal that we did not discuss this afternoon, but which we adopted last week. As a result, the vote on the whole had to be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u202	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 119 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the bill, as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1723/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill, as amended. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1723/10) Mrs Sarah Smeyers and Mrs Karolien Grosemans voted in favour. Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u203	Vote on Amendment No 17 by Frédéric Daerden cs inserting an article 5/1(n). (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Frédéric Daerden cs to insert an Article 5/1(n). (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[19]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (3275/9) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (3275/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 121 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf abstained. Anne-Catherine Goffinet voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 6. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 6. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 48 Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck on Article 6. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to Article 6. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 7. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 7. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[42]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Mr Olivier Chastel voted against. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck on Article 8. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Catherine Fonck to Article 8. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 36 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Frédéric Daerden cs on Article 10. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Frédéric Daerden cs to Article 10. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 30 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck on article 11. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Catherine Fonck to Article 11. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 36 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 11/1(n). (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 11/1(n). (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck on article 15. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Catherine Fonck to Article 15. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 15 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck on article 17. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Catherine Fonck to Article 17. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck on article 27. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Catherine Fonck to Article 27. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck on article 41. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 41. (3275/12) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u204	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 21 by Sarah Schlitz cs on article 41. (3275/12) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Sarah Schlitz cs to Rule 41. (3275/12) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 32 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 41 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 41 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 71 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3275/13) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3275/13) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3428/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3428/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3442/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3442/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3447/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3447/4) Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 120 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3478/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3478/4) Kattrin Jadin voted in favour. Mrs Nathalie Muylle voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u210	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (2261/7) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 2/1(n). (2261/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 49 Yes No. 71 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 2/2(n). (2261/7) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 2/2(n). (2261/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 123 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Bart De Wever voted against. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 2/3(n). (2261/7) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 2/3(n). (2261/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u211	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 2/4(n). (2261/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Karin Jiroflée cs to insert an Article 2/4(n). (2261/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 48 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 119 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mr Wouter Beke voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 93 Yes No. 6 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2261/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2261/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3287/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. Ella will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3287/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2857/10) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2857/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 71 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 52 Abstensions Total 123 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3443/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3443/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u216	I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for a revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes and provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for revision of the Constitution may be adopted, provided that two-thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its members adopt it. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The two-thirds majority has been achieved. Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal to revise Article 149 of the Constitution. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. (2628/11) The quorum of the presences shall be reached. A two-thirds majority is reached. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal to revise section 149 of the Constitution. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. (2628/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-14-54-plenair-ip270x.u217	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 February 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 21, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 February 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, February 21, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
