ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u1	On 4 April 2019, we passed a law here in the Chamber that creates a framework for a capacity compensation mechanism. It has been worked hard and urgently so that it could be dealt with in the Chamber. Much remains to be done, however, and implementation decisions still need to be taken to further develop the mechanism. There is also time to do so, as the formal notification procedure must be opened before December 2019 at the European Commission. It will then examine whether or not the mechanism is distorting the market. Madam Secretary, what progress has been made on the preparation of the implementing decisions? When will they be ready? Will it still be possible to initiate the formal notification procedure with the European Commission before the end of 2019? What else has to be done? Are we on schedule? According to Elia's study, the accelerated coal exit in our neighbouring countries will require additional measures from winter 2022-2023 to meet the additional capacity needs of more than 1 gigawatt. The adoption of the strategic reserve mechanism will run until winter 2021-2022 and the capacity compensation mechanism will only apply toa 2025. What measures do you think are still needed to bridge the gap? Can the mechanism of the strategic reserve be extended or not? What is your view on this? I hope I get a very clear answer to my brief questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u2	Madam Minister, Elia's planning to notify the European Commission of the various royal decisions to be adopted to implement the CRM is based on a notification on 15 January 2020. At the meeting of our committee on 15 July, you promised to do everything in your power to present the CRM to the European Commission by December. It is a set of six KBs, which must now be in preparation and on which there must be consensus. Article 7m of the Royal Decree on financing provides that the decision cannot have any effect if it is not ratified by law within 12 months of its entry into force. The government that develops the KBs has no majority in Parliament. Moreover, it is uncertain when a new government will take office, while the impact of these KBs cannot wait. How will you organise the consultation with Parliament on the content of the R &amp; D programmes and specifically on funding? Will the government meet the deadline of December 2019 or 15 January 2020? In any case, can the KBs be adopted in a period of current cases? The law of 22 April 2019 also adds an article on targeted auctions, 7duodecies, to be able to go faster if necessary, and an article 7tints on the development of new capacities, a kind of emergency item. The appeal to Article 7t also presupposes a royal decision, endorsed by law, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Are you also preparing the KBs on these two specific articles today? Is this discussed in the task force and in the follow-up committee? How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u3	As our chairman likes conciseness, I will skip the introduction. We have five questions about the CRM, of which two have already been asked. I would like to add three more points. It concerns the financing basis of the CRM. Which slopes are being investigated? By who? Has a consultant been appointed for this purpose? Who appointed it? In which body is funding discussed? If government formation is delayed for a long time, will support be sought for a certain funding mechanism in Parliament during this period of current affairs? Europe must present an implementation plan, our so-called last resort. In that we explain why we choose one or other CRM. Is that what you're working on? We haven't seen much of it. Who works on this? When will things be ready? If that's not the case yet, why not? This is an obligation imposed by the European Union. What partial aspects of the dossier are there in contact with the Länder? You have just heard me say that we believe that all parliaments in the country should be involved in climate issues, and thus also in the case of the CRM. How's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u4	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you have had an excellent holiday. I see to your questions that you are in full shape, so in my opinion we can answer it with the positive. For my part, I am in the same state of mind. For this first flight of questions that show an appetite, I have just pointed out, but also a pressing request to know what is happening, I may disappoint you somewhat because the timing of the work, currently, has gone back with a meeting of the stakeholders and a presentation of this timing by the CRM Monitoring Committee (Capacity Compensation Mechanism), which took place on 9 July. The new period before us extends until mid-December. I will now explain precisely what this is about. First of all, in order for you to have the ideas clearly in mind, the MRC follow-up committee – which was set up to work on the drafting of secondary legislation, i.e. royal decrees which, as Mrs Van der Straeten has pointed out, must be confirmed by Parliament, as many royal decrees in this matter, too – is composed of DG Energy, members of my cabinet, CREG and Elia. This committee is looking at the analysis of the measures to be taken to establish secondary legislation, enabling the framework law which was passed by your Parliament last April and which concerns the inclusion in our legislative arsenal of a mechanism to pay for capacity to be implemented. This mechanism must be neutral, but the main aim is, and this is the urgency, to strengthen our production capacity, our Belgian production stock. In this context, since we must anticipate and accompany the release of nuclear power in 2025, knowing that nuclear power plants will already be released in 2022 and 2023 and that Elia is carrying out a study of the adequacy over time so that we are as close as possible to our capacity needs, we continue this work also in the light of the evolution of capacity in our territory, on the one hand, and the evolution of capacity in the territory of neighbouring countries, on the other hand. On 9 July, we presented Elia with a plan to finalize the drafting of the secondary legislation by mid-December 2019, after periods of public consultation and opinion that are not yet set but that we must enter within this deadline which runs between 9 July for Elia and – at the moment I speak to you – September and mid-December. Mid-December will also be the timing for the notification to DG Competition of preparations and draft royal decrees in order to be able to discuss with DG Competition the adequacy of what we imagine to do to implement this mechanism of capacity compensation within the time required by the nuclear release. The European Commission is very aware of the urgency of our work. It has already greatly assisted us in establishing the framework law and will continue to do so with secondary legislation. Given this planning, we will still be in time to have operational legislation to launch the first public procurement contracts in 2021. That's our goal. What can be done in day-to-day business? What we do: we continue to work on a capacity compensation mechanism the principle of which was decided by the government when it was not yet in day-to-day business. Thus, we are continuing a work that is the result of previous decisions. Of course, there will be extremely crucial arbitrations to be carried out in the context of the preparations for these royal orders. These relate to the financing of this capacity compensation mechanism, as well as the guidelines. To help us, as well as the next government that will be the only one empowered to establish these arbitrations, the work done with the European Commission will provide us with a great deal of tools to continue to perfect as much as possible the texts of the secondary legislation and to be able to hand over to the next government and to the minister who will be appointed the work to be continued. It will be his responsibility to finalize the work with the European Commission and to endorse this legislation at Parliament level, so that it can enter into force and we can launch the first public procurement in 2021. It's September 2019, we still have a lot of work to do by the end of the year. In 2020, we will be in the final full year that will enable us to develop and finalize this legislation. The periods of public consultation and opinion will allow for an exchange with the stakeholders and/or civil society, as well as, of course, with Parliament. With regard to possible urgent problems, the framework legislation provides for the government to take the initiative itself and, since this is a federal responsibility, if it is impossible to respect timing for any reason, make sure that it is the promoter and the investor in additional capacity, to give in to private investors after the fact that the role of the state is not to produce energy on our soil. There you go. If I haven't answered one or the other question, don't hesitate to come back to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u5	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. You say that you are on schedule and that the timing will be respected. We hope so, of course. We also hope that there will be regular feedback to Parliament, so that we have all the information available. I also asked you whether the mechanism of the strategic reserve could be extended if necessary. Do you still keep that thought trail in mind? Or isn't that possible anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u6	With the permission of the President, I will allow myself to respond immediately. The European Commission has specifically asked us to amend our legislative framework for the strategic reserve, so that it is time-limited and tailored to meet the needs, should the market fail to meet these needs, with closer assessments. We shall therefore also ask this question in the discussions with the Commission. But I can't answer it right now. It is necessary to ensure our backs constantly in the very tight timing that we follow, according to the evolution of our production fleet, the neighbouring production parks and the development of the works, to which we are attached.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u7	I want to pick up on that last point. The extension of the mechanism of the strategic reserve is, of course, an option. Already organizing a pre-auction is another possibility. I am not expressing my opinion on one possibility or another. Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for your reply in relation to the set of royal decrees. On 18 September, the follow-up will be discussed in our committee. I believe that we should then continue the discussion. I have another question about the royal decrees relating to Articles 7d and 7i, two separate articles. Are they already being prepared, or is that for later?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u8	I cannot answer that point. I will come back to you directly after asking the question to my administration and to the CRM accompanying committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u9	So the answer will follow. Okay?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I didn't hear you say anything about how you think you're getting the funding. Can you still do that? The CRM is a last choice for many. Europe is imposing this on us, hence the implementation plan. We believe that all responsible governments should be involved so that they can contribute to security of supply. So I urge you to keep working on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u11	Funding is a crucial issue for many issues in this area of work. We have three possibilities that can be combined in a different way. It is therefore an arbitration by the new fully constituted government. Indeed, it concerns either the consumer, or the companies, or the state budget, or a little of the three or two out of three, according to a balance which is quite particular but crucial and which has repercussions on the regions, you are right. This balance must be studied by a full-fledged government - you will understand it easily - in consultation, if necessary, with regional governments. There is also a consultation platform called the Consultation Committee, the task of which is precisely to discuss this type of issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u12	Minister, your office seems to be committed to conflict of interest. The press has just revealed a new case, which is particularly disturbing. Mr. Ruben Laleman left your firm a few weeks ago to become ENGIE Electrabel's public affairs advisor. Within your firm, he was working on the Gas Power Plant Support Facility (GRC) project. On 9 July, at a meeting of the main players in the energy sector on this mechanism, he represented the French multinational. Minister, when did Mr. Laleman leave your office? Did you know he would work for ENGIE Electrabel on that date? If not, when and how did you learn? You told the press that Mr. Laleman signed a document when he left your office. What does this document contain? Can you provide us with a copy? Are penalties provided for failure to comply with the conditions for leaving your firm? What initiatives are you going to take with your ex-collaborator to prevent the conflict of interest created from favouring the multinational ENGIE Electrabel? Several members or former members of your firm (including MM. Warichet, Pardoen, Lerouge and Van Den Bulcke) have already been sources of conflict of interest. How do you explain this accumulation of problematic situations? On August 21, 2018, I sent you a written question asking what steps you were taking to avoid conflicts of interest in your firm? Why didn't you ever answer? Can you answer me today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u13	Minister, on July 15, I asked you about the problematic situation of a former advisor to your strategic cell who is now employed by Electrabel. You then indicated that you had commissioned a legal study on this subject. I would like to know whether you have received this study and, if so, what are the conclusions? You recalled that the aim was to protect yourself from any conflict of interest and porosity between the State and the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u14	Madam Secretary, before the summer recess, the switch from your cabinet employee Laleman to ENGIE Electrabel was mentioned in this committee. I understand you weren't very happy about that. However, you announced that you would have a legal study drawn up on the introduction of a legal cooling-off period for certain transfers of employees. Madam Secretary, has this study been ordered? What analysis can be drawn from this? Has your ex-worker had access to any sensitive information that might be of interest in the future? Will there be an initiative to introduce a legal cooling-off period? Can you provide the members of the committee with this analysis and legal study?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u15	Mr President, I would like to thank the parliamentarians who are asking their questions correctly and a little less those who want a still-born case to be mossed. As you know, Mr Van Hees, I had the opportunity to answer these questions last July. Not to you, obviously, since you had not introduced yours in time or because you were absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u16	Madam Minister, I am asking you today, precisely because your reply at the time was not satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u17	All right. So you're going back to a file that's already settled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u18	It's just because he's not, that I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u19	Yes, he is, Mr. Van Hees! Allow me to respond without interruption. Mr. Laleman left my office because he wanted to work for another employer. That makes sense. Then I had the unpleasant pleasure of learning the information in question indirectly – since I do not participate in the meetings of the accompanying committee that meets with the stakeholders. By means of the press, I pointed out very strongly that I no longer wanted to see the shadow of a toe of this collaborator during the discussions on the capacity compensation mechanism. In short, things have been clearly set out; there is nothing problematic. We are at the beginning of this file. Therefore, no business secret could benefit one competitor over another. Then, in a firm as specific as the one assigned to me in 2014, special skills are needed. But you can't find them under the hoof of a horse. This means engaging profiles that must have taken a healthy distance from their previous activities. In the case of Mr. Pardoen, whom you have recalled to make it appear that these are recurring problems, you may have retained that he had definitely left his employer in October 2014 to join my firm and has not, since then, maintained any relationship with him. So it's very clear. In this small country, since nuclear is obsessing you – and even if the lobbies also exist in renewables (e.g. with wind turbines) – we need to think about the possibility of a buffer period. In this regard, it would be interesting to scan the many representatives of associations found in firms. This will obviously require a high degree of anticipation for those who want to work in or out of a firm, in order to ensure the continuity of their careers. It is important, if one lives from one's work – which is the most logical thing when one has skills – to be able to live from it at any time, in continuity. It was in this sense that I had the issue studied. I don't have an answer yet. I wanted to know the possible avenues to allow highly qualified profiles to put their skills at the service of the general interest by working in a firm – even if they have developed their knowledge and experience in the private sector – and to return to the private sector, after their time in the firm, which is their right. I therefore protest against a logic that things would be permanently separated, without it being possible, in the course of a career, to make several experiments. It is enough to organize these experiences in time to avoid criticism of appearance, when there is no problem in reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers and your non-responses. In particular, you told the press that Mr. Laleman had signed a document when he left your office. What does this document contain? I didn't get an answer. I also asked to have this document available. You didn't give it to me. I also asked you why you never answered the question I asked a year ago. It was intended to know, precisely within a specific firm where it is a priori problematic, what steps you are taking to avoid conflicts of interest. I warned you, a year ago, against these dangers, on the basis of what we knew in other cases. I know the old argument that if you want to find competent people, you can only find them there. I protest against that statement. First of all, I think there are enough competent people in universities and in the public sphere, so that we don't have to go and look for them in the industry. And even in industry, we know that there are mechanisms, which you have cited, like buffer periods. You never applied them. The last case is clear. Indeed, it took only a few weeks for these people assigned to the CRM file to leave your firm and arrive at a meeting as Electrabel delegates on the CRM issue. And the fact that you're insurgent doesn't change the question since this person is still at Electrabel's and still deals with CRM files, even if he's not present at the meetings. So you haven't solved anything at all in this case and, most importantly, you haven't solved anything on the substance of the conflict of interest issue, a recurring problem in your firm. You never wanted to attack it. In fact, you justify these conflicts of interest by saying that we cannot do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you consider that conflicts of interest are limited in this case, given the maturity of the case. Let us still consider that what is at stake is not to have to react on a case-by-case basis, but to establish a mechanism which, structurally, will help to avoid situations of conflict of interest. In the Socialist Party, we encourage you to go as far as possible. We're not talking about anodizing materials here. There is a very important strategic dimension. The passages from private to public must also be considered in the light of these major strategic issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u22	Madam Minister, your answer does not show very clearly whether a legal study or analysis has been prepared. We had not asked you to do that, it was your words in committee before the summer recess. It is to your advantage and to all of us that such an analysis should be prepared in order to reassure us. We have already discussed the CRM today. It will be an important issue in the energy supply of our country, which will involve large budgets. We can therefore best avoid that these kinds of stories are being circulated and that people are being mentioned in the context of a possible conflict of interest. That reassurance is not here today. If you can provide us with this analysis in writing, we would very much like to know that there is no problem in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u23	Minister, a moratorium on commercial whaling was established by the International Whaling Commission (IWC) in 1982. Since then, Japan has continued to pursue negotiations for the revival of the fishery, while continuing to hunt this animal on the pretext of scientific research. The Japanese government finally announced its withdrawal from the international body in December 2018, with negotiations still stalled. Since 1 July, the same country has resumed commercial whaling in its exclusive economic zone. Together with Norway, Iceland and Denmark, it is one of the last whale-hunting countries on the planet. The Japanese decision is paradoxically perceived as an opportunity by associations defending these mammals. Indeed, by leaving the CBI and thus losing its veto power, Japan allows the same commission to vote for the creation of a whale sanctuary in the South Atlantic. Minister, how do you analyze Japan's resumption of commercial whaling since July 1? What are the guarantees that Japan is limited to its exclusive economic zone? Will Belgium take specific initiatives to advance the creation of a whale sanctuary in the South Atlantic? What are our country's other priorities within the CBI to address other threats to whales, such as plastic pollution of the oceans – which we have already talked about in committee – or collisions with boats?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decision taken by Japan to leave the International Whaling Commission and resume commercial whaling in its exclusive economic zone is quite regrettable, not only for the whales who find themselves at the heart of an international conflict, but also for the vain diplomatic efforts on this subject. We are witnessing a disturbing international trend, pushing countries to abandon multilateral agreements when they no longer agree, rather than continue negotiations. As a result of its decision, Japan was forced to abandon its hunting under a special permit, i.e. under cover of scientific research. In other words, it will no longer hunt in the South Ocean, especially in the whale sanctuary in that area, nor in the North Pacific. As a result, he will no longer be able to track the black whale. In addition, Japan is still under investigation by CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) for the marketing of meat from black whales. This issue was addressed at the last meeting of the CITES Parties recently held in Geneva. Unfortunately, the impact of commercial hunting in the exclusive economic zone is not yet clear, as Japan will set its own quotas without independent monitoring. Although Japan indicates that they will only hunt species that they consider to be sustainable for hunting, I quote, international scientists do not agree that these species are actually doing better than before the moratorium on fishing. Black whales are still on the list of endangered species. We lack information to have a clear view of the situation of the Bryde whales, but the greatest concern exists for the small whales, because today it is already a small population considered to be in danger. For Japan, with regard to safeguards, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its international relations are very important. In these various bilateral and multilateral forums, Japan has guaranteed that it will abide by international law and cooperate in good faith. It will continue to provide scientific data related to hunting to the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission (IWC). It will be important to analyze these data to maintain monitoring and measure the impact of this hunt. What is Belgium doing in this context? It is clear that our country will continue to support the creation of a whale sanctuary in the South Atlantic. I also used my participation in COP24 in Katowice to promote and advocate for the establishment of this sanctuary. Belgium will, of course, join the initiatives and approaches that the European Union could take with a view to the biannual meeting of the CBI in September next year. In preparation for this meeting, we will do everything possible to support the promoters of this sanctuary, namely Brazil, Argentina, South Africa, Gabon and Uruguay. With regard to Belgium's other priorities within the CBI, there are many threats to whales and cetaceans: collisions with boats, noise pollution, marine debris, pollution, accidental fishing, and the effects of climate change. That's why I, together with Minister De Backer, organized the High-level Conference on Climate Change and the Preservation of the Oceans on February 19, 2019. At present, there are more than 40 signatories to the Brussels Declaration, which is the text we signed at this high-level conference. The text deals with climate change and the preservation of the oceans, with a commitment from all these countries and from all those forums to ensure that our oceans are preserved. I will continue to advocate for action in favour of our oceans and their biodiversity in the various national and international forums. Within the CBI, Belgium remains committed to the conservation of cetaceans worldwide. We will continue to support measures to address the various threats to cetaceans and their cumulative impact. Belgium has, moreover, distinguished itself, in recent years, by the presidency of Bycatch Mitigation Initiative. An ambitious programme of work was approved to address the problem of by-catch. Each year, more than 300,000 dolphins and whales die trapped in fishing nets. The important role of the Belgian Commissioner in advancing this work was recognised both by the CBI Member States at its last meeting and by some 40 NGOs, who signed a letter expressing their positive appreciation. In order to support the implementation of this programme, I granted a subsidy of EUR 20 000 to these actions at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u25	Mr President, I thank the Minister for her answers. It is deplorable that European countries are pursuing this type of practice. A more direct and regular dialogue could perhaps take place with them. It goes without saying that efforts to preserve these animal species must be multiplied wherever necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u26	Madam Minister, this is a subject that has undoubtedly touched a number of anciens here in the previous legislature, including yourself. There were intense public debates on whether or not the extension of the lifetime of the nuclear power plants should be subject to an environmental assessment and public consultation. I remember when people rolled over the pavement and you said that the opposition parties, especially sp.a and Green, did not even respect the FANC's vision on this issue. Turns out what? A number of associations went to the Constitutional Court, which referred a question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. The European Court of Justice delivered an opinion on 29 July, an opinion that is not very nice for you. There is, of course, no ruling on the substance of the Constitutional Court, but the opinion is that an environmental impact assessment had to be carried out in the context of the EIA Directive and that, since it concerns plants situated at the border, a cross-border assessment procedure had to be established. The opinion also states that this can be restored and that this can even be done without the need to shut down Objectives 1 and 2. Another interesting point in that opinion is that one warns that the maintenance of the situation should not take longer than the time strictly necessary to put an end to the infringement of EU rules. Madam Secretary, how do you deal with this opinion? It is only an opinion, but it contradicts the legal interpretations you have always defended here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u27	Mr President, Inter-Environnement Wallonie and Bond Beter Leefmilieu Vlaanderen have referred the matter to the Constitutional Court by asking it to annul the 2015 law which allowed the restart and extension of the life of the Doel 1 and 2 nuclear power plants. Both associations believe that the absence of environmental assessment and of a procedure involving the public in the drafting of this law violates the obligations under the Espoo Convention, the Aarhus Convention and the provisions of several European directives. Following a question referred for a preliminary ruling, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment at the end of July on this dispute and gave the two associations reason. The case will now proceed before the Constitutional Court, which is responsible for deciding on the concrete consequences of this European judgment on Doel 1 and 2 power stations. However, it can already be concluded that the government was wrong not to follow opposition objections in the lengthy parliamentary debates that preceded the adoption of this law. Minister, what is your analysis of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and how will you regularize the situation of Doel 1 and 2?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u28	Madam Minister, as both colleagues have said, the European Court of Justice did indeed clarify this dossier at the end of July. In the past, we have always said that we felt that it was far too light-hearted that there was a need for an EIA procedure and a cross-border procedure regarding the extension of the life of nuclear power stations. Madam Minister, we think it is only logical that we should put the following questions to you. Will the government work on the environmental impact assessment? Will you do it now? What timing do you have in mind? Will a cross-border procedure be launched, as the Court points out? Do you also intend to clarify the legislation so that there is no longer any discussion about it? In the past, the government has often spoken about this. A lifetime extension was not the same as, for example, a new nuclear power plant. There is more clarity about that now. Do you agree that the ruling of the European Court of Justice is also important for the future? It is now clear that in future we will no longer be able to deal lightly with the extension of the life of nuclear power plants. Do you agree with me that that statement will have an impact in that sense? In what way will you demonstrate that the lifetime extension was indeed necessary for the security of supply in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u29	Minister, in 2015, you decided to extend the life of Doel 1 and 2 nuclear reactors by 10 years. Several legal opinions have already warned you, including the advice of the Council of State. The Greens also said it in this house. It was absurd for us to want to extend such old plants and also to be subject to repeated breakdowns, in addition, outside the legal framework. From a strategic point of view, the facts have given us reason because Doel 1 and 2 did not turn the past winter at all and will not turn the next winter either. And now, the highest judicial body in Europe is right about the legal opinions that had already been issued in 2015. On 29 July the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled. Under international and European law, prior to the extension of Doel 1 and 2, the government had to carry out a public inquiry and an environmental impact study. Now that things are clear and have been decided by the highest European judicial body, will Belgium start the environmental impact study and cross-border consultation as required by European law? In return for the extension of Doel 1 and 2, ENGIE Electrabel provides an annual fund dedicated to the energy transition of €20 million per year. Each year, an appeal is launched and candidates are, in principle, selected. But this fund, with 30 million euros, has been blocked for months. Where are we? Will these EUR 30 million, which are available and which we could use in the energy transition, still be able to be spent this year? Is it correct that you rejected the list proposed by the administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u30	Mr President, honourable Members, the lawyers of the Belgian State and I have examined the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union which answered the questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the Constitutional Court of Belgium concerning the Belgian law of 28 June 2015 extending the date of deactivation of the Doel 1 and Doel 2 nuclear power plants to 2025. In this 45-page judgment you have certainly gone through, the Court of Justice points out that, I quote, "the security of energy supply in the European Union is identified as one of the fundamental objectives of the Union's energy policy". I also quote: "the security of a Member State's electricity supply is a compelling reason of major public interest" whereas "Union law must be interpreted as meaning that a national court may, if national law permits, exceptionally maintain the effects of measures such as that at issue". You are aware that it is now up to the Belgian Constitutional Court to decide the question of the balance between the legal requirements of the environment and the requirements of security of supply of the territory. We cannot therefore "function" and set up procedures, certainly not in routine cases, but certainly not until the Belgian Constitutional Court has delivered its judgment. In the framework of the Government Agreement, the Council of Ministers created and implemented the legislative framework that ensured the country's security of supply until 2025. That is why we extended Doel 1 and Doel 2 not only until 2025 but also beyond. My specifications were a short-, medium- and long-term specification. The short term was the country's immediate supply. We reworked the release plan. As far as the medium term is concerned, we have decided to extend Doel 1 and Doel 2 until 2025. After 2025, for the long term, we voted for a legislative framework for a capacity compensation mechanism while developing offshore wind in the North Sea for an installed capacity of 2,200 MW by 2020, and a legal framework for public tender to double this capacity by up to 4,000 MW in the North Sea by 2030. As you know and as we discussed in previous questions, the capacity compensation mechanism must be launched in this context as early as 2021. I quote the government agreement: "Belgium must provide its production fleet with a clear, prepared and robust framework to ensure a smart energy transition for the country, allowing us to meet our commitments to reduce greenhouse gases and ensure its energy supply at the best price for citizens and businesses." It can be inferred from this that the reason for the government's action was that, that it was recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union and that it would be up to the Belgian Constitutional Court to take a decision in which it would make an arbitration between the country's security of supply and the legal environmental obligations, in order to maintain the sensitive and delicate balance. As far as the energy transition fund is concerned, there is indeed a difficulty this time. It lies in the assessment made by DG Energy and the financial audit which works with DG Energy on calls for tenders as they arise, and in this case for this year. The administration proposes to retain 17 projects while two of them do not fully and rigorously meet the requirements of the legal framework. I therefore consider that only 15 projects can receive the subsidy which is planned this year for an amount of 30 million. For your information, the royalties paid by Electrabel in return for the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, from 20 million per year, have been increased to 30 million last year and this year. Indeed, the timing of the vote on the extension law, in June 2015, and the legislative framework for the fund, triggered these calls a little later. To catch up with these possible subsidies and not lose them, we increased them, during three exercises if my memory is correct, from 20 million to 30 million. In the current fiscal year, $30 million can be allocated. The government has not yet decided to allocate them either to 15 or 17 or to more projects, based on criteria that need to be assessed. It is always a matter of being extremely rigorous and I plead for it. All project offerers should be kept in strict equality, and they should be able to report to everyone, to the proponents and to others on rigorously respected selection and award criteria.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u31	Madam Minister, the security of supply aspect is, of course, crucial for my party. I fully realise that the European Court of Justice also recognised this in its judgment. Moreover, I had referred to this judgment in the written presentation of my question. In any case, there will be a legal debate on the assessment of environmental impacts. The Constitutional Court will therefore have to strike a delicate balance. In any case, it is a signal and a possible precedent for possible extensions, which we will not immediately oppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u32	I have nothing to add, Mr. Chair, except to thank the minister for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u33	Madam Minister, we felt that the Court of Justice had been rather lenient in this matter for our country. We may keep the power stations open and continue to carry out interim assessments, but I do not understand your answer immediately. You say that the government cannot initiate this environmental impact assessment and cross-border procedure in current cases. Let me get this straight. You do not draw a clear conclusion, although that conclusion is clear to us. We believe that this statement confirms that in future it will be very difficult to allow further extensions. I would have liked to have had some clarification on these procedures. You're saying you can't start it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u34	That's correct. The answer is yes. I can't start this as long as the government is in business as usual. In addition, the Constitutional Court must issue its judgment, which will trigger an action in the head of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u35	Madam Minister, this was indeed a question for a preliminary ruling. The Constitutional Court has yet to rule. As for the need to conduct this impact study, evaluation and public consultation, there can be no doubt. I do not see very well how the Constitutional Court would come to ignore this obligation, directly linked to European and international law and finally to Belgian law. It is clear, according to the opinion of the European Court of Justice, that this obligation had to take place well in advance of the day-to-day business, well before the extensions of Doel 1 and Doel 2 plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u36	As you are trained in this, you know that we do not comment on the future decisions of a court or the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Everyone has their point of view. You're developing it. You're absolutely right to do that. I obviously respect your point of view while remaining neutral and cautious about the future decision of the Belgian Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u37	Question 141c by Mrs Tillieux is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u38	Madam Secretary, the construction of a new windmill park, in particular the plots 3 and 4 of the Dutch Coast wind farm, was now assigned to Vattenfal at our northern neighbours. The company will have to pay a rent on the seabed of around EUR 2 million per year and no subsidies will be granted. On 4 April 2019, the Chamber adopted a legislative proposal on the introduction of a competitive registration procedure. In the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal we read that the preparatory studies for the auction procedures will be carried out under the coordination of the administration and that the form taken by the competitive tendering procedure should also be further developed. Madam Minister, first of all, how is the system being worked out by your administration? Secondly, is a system of compensation to be paid for the seabed instead of the grant of subsidies envisaged? Thirdly, what steps have been taken in relation to the above mentioned studies? Fourthly, what do you learn from the case of Dutch Coast for lots 3 and 4 regarding the further plans off our coast?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u39	Madam Minister, I was delighted to see the Flemish press block lettering in February: "Are there going to be new Belgian offshore wind farms without subsidies?" I thought it was finally time. Mr. Wollants said it, too. The roll-out is ongoing after the Court passed a law on general principles on competitive registration procedures on 4 April 2019. That legal framework should allow the federal government and also your successors to achieve the proposed 4 gigawattuur of offshore wind energy in the inter-federal energy pact by 2030 at the latest. It is also important to us that the new law aims to achieve the highest possible share of additional offshore electricity production capacity after 2020 at the lowest possible social cost, including minimum costs for consumers. The aim is to reduce the cost of support by, firstly, organising competitive tendering procedures, secondly, placing larger lots on the market and, thirdly, preliminary studies charged to the administration whose results will be made available to potential tenderers. Madam Minister, what is the current state of play on the organisation of competitive registration procedures? Where are the preliminary studies announced by the administration? What preliminary studies are currently under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u40	The Royal Decree laying down the detailed rules of the competitive tendering procedure, pursuant to Article 6/3, § 3 of the Electricity Act, is in draft and will be announced and published in good time before the opening of the tender procedure. In this respect, regular consultations with the network operator, the environmental authorities and the energy regulator in the Offshore Tender Task Force shall be established with a view to preparing the tender. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Act of 12 May 2019, which introduced the new Article 6/3 into the Electricity Act, the following three options can be considered as regards the subsidies to be received or remuneration to be paid. Option A consists of a competitive tender procedure with so-called zero bid or a grant; option B opts for a competitive tender procedure with a fixed price and option C involves a competitive tendering procedure through an auction without subsidies, but with a remuneration to the public for the construction and operation of electricity generation installations. Under Article 6/3, § 5 of the Electricity Act, all necessary studies will indeed be carried out at the expense of the Federal Government. Once the required budget in the budget of general expenditure for 2020 has been approved by the Federal Parliament, the mandate to carry out the pre-studies required after the organisation of a public procurement procedure will be allocated to specialised private organisations where appropriate. An open invitation to tender is currently being prepared for the appointment of an external coordinator who will be able to assist the administration in some specific coordination tasks. The outcome of the tender Hollandse Kust Zuid 3 and 4 shows that the Belgian tender law of 12 May 2019 rightly encourages the federal government to seriously consider the three options mentioned above when laying down the rules of the competitive registration procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u41	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. If we want to achieve the timing set out in the federal energy strategy, I think that action will be needed. I would like to see which parties will feel called to sit at the table, or to speak in any way with the other side, so that at least a budget can be approved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u42	The answer makes just as much sense. After all, the Minister refers to the 2020 budget. So I would call this a work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u43	Madam Minister, in May BTK announced quite spectacularly that it would build four new gas plants and would not need support for them. If a newspaper is to be opened today, there has been some doubt about this investment. In De Tijd the mayors of Vilvoorde and Genk spoke. After all, these are the places where those power stations would be. The mayors said they hadn't heard from him in this file. The great sponsor Qatargas even felt it necessary to have it recorded in the press that the statements made by Mr Segers of BTK are incorrect and misleading. The owner of the land at Langerlo's plant said there's nothing about a sale at all. Moreover, the companies concerned would not even be found in the Luxembourg business register. In turn, Elia is considering adapting its regulations so that BTK cannot stand in the way of the development of other projects. The question now is what information you have in this file and this leads to a number of questions. What contacts has your cabinet had with BTK and its spokesman? What facts can you confirm about the planned power stations on the basis of information received as a minister? In the meantime, what official steps has BTK taken in this file in terms of production permits, applications for connection to the high voltage grid, applications for connections to Fluxys, and that's more. I very much look forward to the answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u44	Mr Wollants, you know that I must remain neutral in the contacts I have. I set myself this rule from the very beginning of my ministry. I have received all energy stakeholders and receive investors who are interested in the framework legislation of the capacity compensation mechanism. That is how I received the representative of this company to listen to what he had to say. What he said to me seemed quite special to me, since he claimed to want to build gas-fired power stations on Belgian territory, even without subsidies. I told him that it was very good news and that he would have to complete a file with my administration, Elia and the CREG and participate in the call for tenders. So I gave him the same information I gave everyone. You read it in the press, I was recently present at the signing of an agreement between Fluxys and Qatar, represented by my counterpart, the Minister of Energy of that country. I had the opportunity to discuss with him some files, including this one. It was confirmed to me that there was no contact between BTK and Qatar, whereas in my conversation with the person concerned there was a prominent link for the supply of gas from the same country. My position, as a representative of the federal government, is always the same: the greatest neutrality, the examination of all applications, wherever they come from, and the reminder to each intervener of the procedures and requirements under Belgian law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u45	Madam Secretary, it was about what I expected, that it seemed too good to be true, and sometimes it is. We will look into what might be left of the bus and then we will see when the applications come, but it seems that we should not rely too heavily on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u46	May I ask Mr Ravyts and Mr Wollants for something? I have to go to the Conference of Presidents later. Is it possible to put item 9 now and then item 8? Then I can ask my question and then leave. Can we do that? Thank you, Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u47	Madam Minister, we all know that the energy bill is a heavy burden for our families and even our companies. Studies have shown that for industrial consumers only the United Kingdom is less competitive than Belgium for countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, France and the United Kingdom. We absolutely must do something about that. That is why the coalition agreement stated that an energy standard would be introduced. This standard was intended to ensure that the different components of energy costs in Belgium would not be higher than in neighbouring countries. A similar system applies to the wage standard. We have been calling for this for a long time. In May 2019, the four Belgian energy regulators apparently launched a procedure for a preparatory study on the energy standard. That study would be carried out by a consultant. I have a number of questions about this study. What exactly is the purpose of this study? Who will carry out this study and what is its cost? When are the results of this study expected? Can you also tell us whether this study, in addition to comparing prices with those in neighbouring countries, includes recommendations that can be used for the effective development of the energy standard? Finally, for the federal level, you have looked at the costs of electricity, transport, the offshore surcharge and the federal contributions. What interventions do you think are possible to reduce the invoice? I'm looking forward to your vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u48	Madam Secretary, the energy standard is a term that has been going on for years. The energy standard has been announced by the various governments for years and is also part of the interfederal energy pact. As the colleague said, on 9 May 2019, the four regulators announced that they were launching the procedure leading to a preparatory study that could serve as a reference for debates on the energy standard. Through this study, which would be carried out by a consultant designated by a public contract, regulators will examine the annual evolution of the electricity and natural gas energy bill. I would like to add that last year the Flemish Government laid down the legal basis for the energy standard, at least as far as the regional part of the energy bill is concerned, and the link with energy-intensive companies. That invoice shall not be significantly higher than in neighbouring countries. I come to my questions, Madam Secretary. Has the consultant who would carry out the study been designated by now? When can the results of the study be expected? What is the cost of this public contract? What exactly do the regulators' press release mean by "a study that could serve as a reference"? Can the federal government, together with the Flemish Government, develop an energy standard on the basis of this study and therefore take further action on the federal components of the energy bill? Or is this study only intended to support the monitoring of the regulators? I would like more clarity on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u49	Madam Secretary, the federal energy strategy was adopted at the end of March 2018. One of the six axes of this strategy is the introduction of the energy standard. Recently, the VREG study showed that the public service obligations, the public service obligations, entail high costs and lead to a high invoice. UNIZO also announced last week that Flemish SMEs would pay some 24% more than their equivalents in neighbouring countries. On 8 May 2019, the four Belgian energy regulators launched a press release. They announced that they would launch the preparatory study procedure. We think it is a positive message that this is being done. Madam Secretary, to what extent did you become and will you be involved in the procedure and study? When can we expect the results of the study? What possibilities do you see to control the energy bill? Let me give you an example. It may not be immediately relevant in this Chamber, but cities are shareholders in many gas companies and energy companies. This brings my city 7.9 million euros a year to hidden taxes, a core task for the municipalities. In the meantime, are there any parallel initiatives on the energy standard on your part? Welke?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u50	Colleagues, the very detailed questions you are asking first show that you are familiar with the subject. I congratulate you on this because it is a subject which implements almost all the vectors of the field of energy which concern the bill on which lies the whole of what the consumer, i.e. the citizen and the companies, assumes to have the comfort of the electricity at all times, namely the generation of electricity, the transmission of electricity at high voltage (Elia), the distribution of electricity at low voltage (the distribution system operators which are linked to the municipalities) and the fees which are paid by consumers to support renewables in this country, whether it is renewable in the North Sea of federal jurisdiction or renewable in the Regions of regional competence. Given the federal energy pact and the intention to introduce an energy standard, regulators were invited by their respective ministers to prepare an annual study on the evolution of all components of the natural gas and electricity bill in the three Belgian regions and neighbouring countries. I have only talked about electricity, but we must not forget the gas and, therefore, we must always associate both. So when I talk about the bill, it's about the gas and electricity bill for all consumers. From a rational and efficient point of view and in order to simplify things, the four regulators decided to carry out a single study together, in consultation and with respect for the powers of both the federal regulator and the regional regulators. It's still important enough for me to point it out. This could be seen as a reference point for the future definition of the energy standard for industrial consumers and residential and SME consumers. The public procurement launched jointly by the four regulators concerns the creation of a European comparison of electricity and natural gas prices for large industrial consumers, SMEs and residential customers. The procurement has been divided into a fixed part which will analyse the situation in January 2020 and three conditional parts, namely three updates which will analyse the situation in January 2021, January 2022 and January 2023, respectively. The studies are expected to be published by regulators in May 2020 for the first, May 2021 for the second (first update), May 2022 for the third (second update) and May 2023 for the fourth (third update). In July, the four regulators awarded the consultancy contract to PWC for a total amount of €188,500 excluding VAT. This amount covers both the fixed part, which will come in May 2020, and the three conditional parts that will come, as I said, in May 2021, May 2022 and May 2023. For further information, I refer you to the technical provisions of the specifications published by CREG under this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. Now we already know a little more. If I have understood correctly, we can expect a first study by May 2020. We look forward to it and hope for a feedback to Parliament so that we can stay informed. Hopefully, on the basis of the study, we will also be able to quickly formulate recommendations to be able to work effectively with the energy standard. Do I understand correctly that the cost is EUR 188 million? The translation was not entirely clear. That sounds like a lot to me for a study.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u52	EUR 188 500.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u53	The translation had said 188 million, which I thought was a lot. 188 500 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. We have received more information on the precise content of the study. The President also referred to the public service obligation. Last week there was the VREG report, which encourages policy makers to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u55	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarifications. It is good to know the details for the timing, but of course Parliament would also like to be involved. The question is what exactly will be done with the studies. How will the policy deal with this? What do policies intend to do with these studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u56	These comparative studies will make it possible to change over time and compare with neighbouring countries (this is the norm). They will serve as a basis for action. Ms Dierick asked about the cost of renewables and offshore in particular. According to the measure taken at the government level, for the development of the offshore in the North Sea, we will now work with public procurement. We are going to compete to drastically reduce the cost of consumer support for this offshore. This measure is the result of the too high price of the Belgian electricity bill. In fact, in the items of this invoice, there is support for renewable energy, which increases as the lease of concessions to offshore operators, as far as the federal government is concerned, and the number of photovoltaic panels and onshore wind turbines in the Regions. Measures must therefore be taken by the federal and the Regions to reduce this bill. In order to know how much we can reduce it compared to neighbouring countries, we need a comparison tool, which is the high standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u57	It must be noted that May 2020 is in a long time! Why wait so long?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u58	I agree. We can ask them to work more quickly, but I assume that the specifications have settled the issue of the work by the company which obtained this public contract and that this period is necessary in view of the complexity of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u59	Because of her busy agenda, the Minister requested that the following questions be deferred. I propose to postpone them until 18 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u60	It's perfect for me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-04-55-commissie-ic006x.u61	The rest of the questions will be postponed until our next meeting on 18 September, with the agreement of the committee members. We are so kind to the Minister today. Will we continue to do so, now that the legislature has begun? We are dealing with questions put together. Question No 189, by Mr Wollants and 213c by Mr Ravyts: President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Question No 230 by Mrs Hanus, Mr 233c by Mr Ravyts, Mr 288c by Mr De Maegd, Mr 296c by Mrs Van der Straeten and Mr 311c by Mr Verduyckt Question No 232, by Mrs Hanus: Question No 234, by Mr Van Lommel: Debates of the European Parliament Question No 287, by Mr De Maegd: Question No 300, by Mr Cogolati: Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament 308c and 309c by Mrs Schlitz.
