ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I have a question about the report on the economic impact of migration. According to the N-VA, the population has the right to know that effect. We have therefore requested this, but Prime Minister Michel's minority government decided in April of this year to postpone the requested study on migration costs. I quote the reason: 'We are not going to instrumentize the National Bank before the elections'. This is a total non-argument. Meanwhile, the elections are just behind us and the next elections, normally, will take place in five years' time. Minister, will you restart this study, to which our people are entitled, at the National Bank? If not, why not? If so, when exactly can we expect the first results? Do you have any idea how much money it would go for your minister's post?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u2	Madam President, Minister, one month before the elections on 26 May 2019, Prime Minister Michel decided to postpone the study on the costs of migration. Although I deeply regret the reasons for this, it should be noted that the elections have been over for a long time and therefore this study cannot influence the voting behaviour of our citizens anymore. It is therefore high time that action was taken on this issue and that the study finally came to fruition. Mr Minister, here are my four questions. First of all, what's the deadline for this study? Secondly, will this study make a clear distinction between legal migration and illegal migration? Thirdly, will this study also make recommendations, so that it does not simply disappear in the closet after it has been carried out? Fourthly, will the study be delivered to Members of Parliament without delay and in full?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u3	Madam President, here is a factual answer, unlike the insinuations in the questions. In April 2018, the Minister of Finance asked the National Bank to conduct a study on the economic impact of migration. The National Bank's study is widely understood, but will focus on labour market effects and public finances. In order to carry out the study, the National Bank submitted a comprehensive data request to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. On 4 September 2018, the National Bank received the agreement of the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health to obtain the data from the Crossroads Bank. The contract between the National Bank and the Crossroads Bank was signed on 18 October 2018. In mid-January 2019, the National Bank received a first part of the data with which the investigation started. In the following months, the Kruidpuntbank made the other data available to the National Bank. In June 2019, almost all the data requested by the National Bank were provided by the Crossroads Bank. The National Bank has started processing this data, but no results are currently available. As a result of the delay in the delivery of the data, the National Bank has proposed to delete the initially foreseen and incomplete study, the completion of which was planned by April 2019 and to produce the full report by summer 2020. Then the study will be published on the website of the National Bank. So there was absolutely no attempt to sweep some study under the mat. The difficulty was to obtain the data. I told you when the data was obtained. On the basis of this information, the National Bank will carry out a full study.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u4	Minister, you say that the process has been normal and that there has been no political approach. Sorry, but I repeat the quote I quoted in that connection: 'We are not going to instrumentize the National Bank before the elections'. So that was clear. However, it is encouraging to hear that the data have already been requested and that the National Bank is processing them. However, the planned publication date in the summer of 2020 is still far in the future, as the data have already been provided. Can Parliament receive and discuss the first documents of the study which have already been completed? You say it is a very extensive study, so I suspect that in the summer we will have a lot of work to discuss this study fully. Perhaps it is therefore appropriate to work in parts, so that we can fill in the study completely in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u5	Minister, I agree with Mrs Van Camp's reply. I hope that we will be able to make use of the information that will be released in part and that we will be able to look at it so that we can get started before the summer of 2020, which is still somewhat ahead. Moreover, I hope that the study will take into account not only the rather traditional pattern of spending on social security and the labour market, but also the less obvious issues, such as the additional security staff to be employed in neighbourhoods with a diverse society, which are seriously affected by migration. For example, the housing market must also be looked at. I myself come from the wider outskirts of Brussels, and there it is noticeable how the housing market suffers from the huge influx of migrants or immigrants from Brussels. In the field of education, too, we note that additional resources are being made available for schools with a diverse pupil population, in neighbourhoods with a diverse society. What is the exact impact of that? Will this also be included in the study? I hope so. The migration debate is the most important debate of the current political period. I hope that we can have that debate on the basis of facts and figures, and for that you and your administration are responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u6	Madam President, Minister, in July I tabled a question on the issue of the commercial links between BNP Paribas and GEO Group, an American company that finances and operates private detention centres in the United States. The notice pointed out that BNP Paribas had close commercial links with GEO Group. Inspection reports from the independent watchdog of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security showed that there are appalling conditions in these private prisons. However, even after this notification, the commercial links still exist, even though many other banks had withdrawn from GEO Group. Only after reports in our country by FairFin and De Standaard did BNP Paribas communicate that she ended any commercial involvement with GEO Group. Their internal human rights charter shows that such cooperation runs counter to their own principles. It was therefore somewhat painful that BNP Paribas had received the Award for Excellence 2019 for World's Best Bank for Corporate Responsibility. This prize is awarded by the private sector to banks for corporate social responsibility. Following this notification, you indicated that you would contact the Belgian representative on the board of directors, because Belgium is the largest shareholder of the French bank. We must therefore feel very involved in this. I come to my questions, Minister. Firstly, what has been achieved by contacting the Belgian representative? What conclusions have you drawn from the Belgian representative's position? Secondly, was the Belgian representative on the board aware of the commercial involvement of BNP Paribas in GEO Group? If so, did he report this to you? If not, has he not been informed of this or is it due to a lack of sufficient information and transparency in the bank? Thirdly, did you draw any conclusions after the report? How will such a situation be avoided in the future? Fourthly, you know that we are in favour of more legal obligations for companies to identify, prevent and address human rights violations. We have repeatedly pointed out that we should take an example to France, where there is a duty of care and companies are obliged to do more than a formal due diligence. They really need to check that fundamental fundamental rights are respected. What is your position on this? Finally, negotiations are under way for a binding UN Convention on Transnational Enterprises and Human Rights. What position does our country take in these negotiations? I have heard that Europe is dragging its feet in this matter, but also that our country does not really play an active role in these negotiations. That's unfortunate. After all, there are many binding standards that protect the commercial interests of companies. It is also necessary for our fundamental rights to be subject to binding standards in order to ensure that companies also comply with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u7	Mr President, Mrs Kherbache, thank you for your question. I have indeed met the person proposed by the Belgian government to become a member of the board of directors of BNP Paribas. He informed me that he was not aware of the individual file. Indeed, the Management Board does not normally deal with individual financing dossiers. As you rightly point out, BNP Paribas has an ethical code that employees must follow when evaluating and assessing individual files. In the case of funding US detention centres, something has clearly gone wrong. I am also pleased that BNP Paribas has announced that it will stop funding those detention centres. To your third question, I can answer that in the management contract concluded between the government and the FPIM on 17 July 2018, the FPIM has been instructed to draw up guidelines on the criteria of sound corporate governance and corporate governance to which companies in which it participates must comply. These directives are currently being drawn up and will be applied to all units in the future. In the case of the designation of directors in companies in which the FPIM participates, it will also ensure appropriate guidance and reporting by those directors in the future, with drivers having to inform FPIM punctually and proactively of important developments. Why do I mention the FPIM here? That's because FPIM is the institution that manages the participation at BNP Paribas. In reply to your fourth question, I would like to point out that our country upholds the principle that respect for human rights is not optional. The fact that some foreign companies would not comply with human rights is not a conclusive argument to justify the participation of Belgian companies in a race to the bottom, sometimes accompanied by human rights violations. National measures alone will never achieve their goal. Due diligence legislation will only be effective if there is a level playing field allowing companies to compete on an equal footing. At the same time, the only solution that guarantees better respect for human rights and a competitive level playing field is to organise a due diligence at European and international level. Belgium will continue to work towards this at European level. It is the starting point of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and is also advocated by the EU in international fora. Such a duty of care goes beyond the mere observance of national laws and rules for the protection of human rights. States should not destabilize themselves or try to exempt their own national companies from certain obligations. However, if we are talking about a duty of care, realism is also needed. Obligations must be proportionate to the capacity and size of the undertakings. This is also mentioned in the UN Guiding Principles. It is an important element for our country, where SMEs make up the bulk of the economic fabric. As for your last question, from 14 to 18 October, the fifth session of the open-ended intergovernmental working group on business and human rights took place in Geneva. On 16 July Ecuador distributed a revised version of the draft Convention. Most industrialised countries still seem to have little involvement in this negotiation process at the moment. Despite the plea of Belgium and several other similar EU Member States for an active EU engagement in this negotiation process, the European External Action Service has currently not received a formal negotiating mandate from the Member States. The technical analysis of the Belgian position is currently under way between the federal government and the Länder of our country. Last week's session in Geneva just served to gather more information about processes and substance. Our country is primarily in favour of joint action with a group of like-minded EU countries. We are currently considering with the Länder whether it is appropriate to engage on a national basis, if this is not possible. However, this will have to take into account the physical division of competences between the EU and the Member States, which will always limit a genuine national commitment. Meanwhile, our country continues to advocate a full European commitment in this process.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u8	Minister, I have heard little voluntarism in your reply, and I regret that. There will be no progress in this direction unless we want to play a leading role. Our country has often done so in the past, when it comes to human rights, weapons of mass destruction or women's rights. You are going to do all the international fora, and I am very happy to defend women's rights, but women's rights are human rights, and so I am sorry that you have such a minimalist response. You want a level playing field and a joint action, preferably at European and international level. That is, of course, the end-point, but that will never be achieved if one does not take a first step of one's own accord. France has done so, and I would take the step that France has taken to be at the vanguard rather than dragging its feet. I regret that, because our country has a different tradition in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u9	I would like to clarify a few things. I made it clear in my reply that, if it is not possible at European level, it will be examined with the Länder whether it is appropriate to engage us nationally. I didn't just say that. You know what kind of government we are. I would very much like to engage, but a government in current affairs is limited in the international commitments it can make. I would have liked our country to join, for example, the alliance of finance ministers committed to climate change, but I cannot do that in current cases. I hope this is a clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I would simply like to inform you of the proposal that we have put forward in Parliament. I hope and assume that your group will support our proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I am very pleased that I can finally put my question from August two months after the date. The Brussels Minister for Mobility announced this summer that the Brussels Region wants a variant of the disputed kilometre tax. The new Brussels government wants a kind of urban toll at variable rates, depending on the time and type of car. The debate on this city toll also affects federal powers. The sixth state reform provided for yet another transfer for commuting movements. The shuttle is a federal competence and a financing mechanism, whereby Flanders and Wallonia make a net payment to Brussels to the extent of their share in the shuttle movements. The Brussels city toll would be partly offset for Brussels citizens by a reform of autotax, but this does not apply to commuters from Flanders and Wallonia. In this way, the commuters will probably have to pay twice a bill, on the one hand, by means of the shuttle and, on the other hand, directly through a city toll. Minister, how can this vision and the Brussels Minister's urban toll be reconciled with the financing mechanism and with the commitments made in the context of the sixth state reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u12	Madam President, Mr Vermeersch, for your information, if you submit questions in writing, we have a three-week lead time today. I understand that you want an answer more quickly and I have every respect for it, but if you do it in writing, it will go a lot faster. Of course, you have the right to ask your question as you wish. The existing commuting and the introduction of a city toll are two different things. The annual funds for commuting, as allocated to the Brussels Capital Region since 2014, under the Special Financing Act, are intended to compensate for the loss of income resulting from the net flow of commuters. The financing of this shuttle is distributed annually between the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region, in proportion to their share in the net flow of commuters to the Brussels-Capital Region. In other words, this is a correction to the allocated portion of the federal passenger tax received by the Brussels-Capital Region. The distribution key for the allocated portion of the federal personal income tax is based on the proceeds of the federal personal income tax per region, which depends on the residence of the taxable persons. Due to the net inflow of commuters, the tax capacity of the Brussels-Capital Region is lower than it would be based on the number of employees. With the sixth state reform, therefore, commuting has been introduced to compensate for this. So the shuttle is separate from the car traffic. The city toll, on the other hand, is directly related to car traffic. The introduction of such a toll is the responsibility of each region, as is already the case in Flanders for the mileage tax for lorries. The state reform, and therefore the special legislator, provides for this possibility. So there's no conflict between those two.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u13	Minister, I thought you were coming from a liberal party that was also in favour of reducing citizens' taxes. With your answer, you certainly do not exclude that Flemings pay the bill twice, indirectly through the shuttle and directly through the city toll. So the Flemings are actually twice the child of the account. The Flemish Interest had actually hoped that, with liberals in a Brussels government, that aspect would also be kept in mind. I am therefore disappointed by your answer. You do not rule out the fact that the two things continue to exist side by side and that the commuter who goes to Brussels and also provides prosperity in Brussels pays twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u14	Minister, you know that I am not so high up on the ultra-launch monetary policy of the European Central Bank. I have been very critical of this for years, and with me our party. Your predecessor, Johan Van Overtveldt, made clear statements about this. I was pleased to note that you have been able to hear that critical voice in the last few weeks. Last week, in this committee, you even established the link between quantitative easing and falling entrepreneurial confidence. On your Twitter account, I saw that Mr Draghi, President of the European Central Bank, was a guest of the Eurogroup. You said yourself that you had discussed with Mr Draghi. At such a moment my curiosity is aroused and I want to know exactly what was said in that meeting. I am also curious about the position taken by our country. In the Council of the ECB, several governors voted against. It refers to the governors of Germany, France, the Netherlands and Austria. This means that some 50% of the euro economy voted against Mr Draghi's measure. There is some ambiguity about the position of our governor, Mr Wunsch. I'm reading articles that show he's been abstaining. Recently, however, it has been claimed that he voted against. You have spoken to Mr Draghi. There was even a lot of discussion about whether you could do this. Indeed, the European Treaty stipulates that no institution or government should attempt to exert any influence or influence on the European Central Bank. As I read it, parliaments are allowed to do everything and European legislation does not prohibit us from taking a position on this. Here you are in Parliament and you can say your word. This brings me to my questions, because I believe that it is time for some clarity. If we do not get it today, we will probably table a proposal to invite Mr Wunsch to this committee. However, it would be good to know what the governor's position was at the meeting of the ECB Governing Council on 12 September. Have you discussed this with Mr Wunsch? Or is this consultation still planned? At the Eurogroup meeting, you apparently had a debate with Mr Draghi. It would be good to hear what you have said there. You said earlier that you were a minister in current affairs. This is about hugely important decisions with a huge impact on our economy. It would therefore be useful to have a debate on this before positions are defined at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u15	First of all, the independence of central bankers, currently at European level Mr Draghi and at Belgian level the governor of the National Bank, is an essential element of our economic model. I speak regularly to the governor of the National Bank, because the National Bank does more than just attend the European Central Bank. Specifically with regard to his participation in the Governing Councils of the European Central Bank, such as that of 12 September, I did not consult with the governor, I do not even think this is appropriate. After all, a central banker is independent. This independence does not mean that the central banker should not explain the position taken. That's two very different things. A few comments can be made on the ECB's recent decision. By further reducing deposit rates, the ECB encourages banks to grant additional loans. We can see that, for example, lending in Belgium is already growing very strongly. This was one of the reasons why the National Bank of Belgium introduced a countercyclical buffer of 0.5 % at the beginning of July. We also see a sharp increase in mortgage lending in Belgium and a relaxation of the conditions for granting a loan in recent years. For example, since 2015, relatively more mortgage loans have been granted with a loan-to-value of more than 80%. In response, the National Bank has recently announced that it will issue so-called supervisory expectations for mortgage lending in Belgium. By further reducing deposit rates, these trends will be further fueled. We must ensure that this does not have a negative impact on financial stability at some point. However, it is positive that the ECB has introduced a so-called two-tier system with regard to the remuneration to be paid on the additional reserves held by the ECB. What also worries me is the impact of ECB policy on inequality in our society. For example, rising house prices make it more difficult for young families to acquire their own homes, while acquiring their own homes is one of the stabilising elements in our country. Home ownership is very high in Belgium with 75%. People who see property as an investment property can then turn those properties off at higher prices. We also see the same phenomenon at the level of movable financial activities. People who only put their savings on a savings book see their savings gradually decrease in value as a result of inflation. People who, on the other hand, are able to invest on the stock exchange can surf on rising bond and stock prices today. I therefore believe that a study should be carried out on the inequality effects of policies currently being pursued in Europe. However, it is true that the low interest rates are partly the reflection of the fact that there is very little trust in the world today. The ECB takes a number of actions. That's correct. However, we notice that in other places in the world, too, the interest rates are very low. That is because today's savings are greater than the investment boom. In the macro-economics, S is larger than I. If there is too much savings and if there is little investment due to a lack of trust, for example through trade wars, then the interest rates are de facto low. It is true that very low interest rates in our country is there is a mandatory minimum rate of tax to ensure that people who save lose ordinary money monthly. People feel that, of course. I can also tell you that at the most recent meeting of the Eurogroup in Helsinki I asked President Draghi a number of critical questions about this. However, the item on the agenda was a purely information point at a closed meeting, at which the attendees could freely exchange views. As you rightly point out, the ECB is independent in the monetary field. The finance ministers have no decision-making power in this respect. However, I believe that the ECB has an important responsibility to explain and justify its policy on the basis of the latest figures. As the side effects of monetary policy are increasingly reflected, it is important to always weigh the benefits well against the costs involved. Did I try to influence Mr Draghi in his choices? I didn't do that at all. However, when a central banker comes to a meeting of the Eurogroup to explain his policy, it is normal for questions to be asked. I was the first one to ask questions. After that, however, there were indeed a lot of jumps on the cart. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. It is clear that there is a negative pressure on the interests at international level. At the same time, I am still amazed at what I read in many expert analyses but not in your reply, namely that one or the other mission is to minimise the ECB's impact on interest rates. It is as if all this is not desirable, although it is the intention that such results should be achieved as a result of these low interest rates. It's very peculiar. One suddenly pretends that there is no responsibility whatsoever with the ECB. If that is the case, the ECB might as well stop doing so. What you have noted about the side effects of the policy is entirely correct. I am pleased that the views of more and more parties, politicians and people in the wider society are growing in this respect. This is an ultra-lake policy, which increases inequality. That is why I continue to find it strange that the parties continue to support ECB policy more on the left side of the spectrum. It is to the advantage of very wealthy people, who can invest and profit from it, and to the disadvantage of people who have it less easy, who might like to get a little bit of interest on their savings. This has a huge impact on people, which one does not realize at all. I remember the beginning of the Michael I administration. Then there was an index jump. That was then about 8 euros a month, 96 euros a year. Then there were demonstrations for weeks in a row. At the same time, a study was published by Allianz, a German research group, which at that time already demonstrated that monetary policy was ultra slanted and the worst had yet to come. Every Belgian lost 786 euros. No one really knows or realizes that, but the impact on people's individual lives is hugely greater. I think it is a good thing, Minister, that you continue to bring that story and that we point to the side effects. You spoke very briefly about the two-tier system. Cui bono? Of course, Germany has an advantage. Germany sees that Draghi is trying to build a certain balance in it, but of course that has failed radically. Finally, I would like to say that those who do politics can expect political questions. I really think that the analysis has come to that point that many people say that the European Central Bank (ECB) is doing politics. Perhaps then it is not even bad that a real politician should be at the head of the European Central Bank and not someone who pretends not to be a politician. The independence of someone who is independent must be respected. So do we. Independently, it does not mean irresponsible, nor that there should be no responsibility for the policies pursued. That is why we have already decided to invite the new President of the ECB, Mrs Lagarde. The request for this has been made. I would like to add an additional proposal, in view of the Minister's reply. We would also like to invite Mr Wunsch to the committee to account for his views, including at the ECB's administrative meeting on 12 September. The N-VA Group will make a proposal to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u17	Mr Minister, everyone who has been here for a while obviously knows the so-called excess profit rulings. They were introduced under Guy Verhofstadt. This allows multinational companies to reduce their Belgian taxable base on the basis of hypothetical excess profits. Since June 2013, the European Commission has assessed whether individual rulings and rulings issued under Member States' tax regimes comply with the State aid rules. In January 2016, the European Commission decided that the exemptions from excess profit granted by Belgium through tax rulings under EU rules certainly constituted prohibited State aid. On this basis, the Commission ordered Belgium to recover the aid for the companies benefiting from that system. Your predecessor, of course, tried to avoid the recovery of the companies by appealing on 22 March 2016. The reasoning was that the companies affected could sometimes claim damages against the Belgian authorities which would be higher than the amounts to be recovered. I believe that at that time the total amount involved was about EUR 700 million. This 2016 Decision was annulled in February 2019 because the European Commission could not demonstrate the existence of a global Belgian aid scheme. However, according to the European Commission, this meant that the compatibility of the rulings in question should now be assessed individually. Therefore, the Commission has now opened separate in-depth investigations. These are 39 multinational companies. Of course, Minister, the results of these investigations are not yet clear, but the Belgian authorities can submit comments as interested parties. What is your response to these opening decisions by the European Commission? What is the Belgian government's view on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u18	Minister, the European Commission has indeed recently announced that it wanted to launch an individual State aid investigation for 39 overprofit rotations granted by Belgian tax authorities since 2005. In addition to that individual examination, there was a collective procedure before the European Court of Justice which has now been appealed against. The collective procedure is therefore still ongoing. The system of overprofit rotations is apparently too flexible, so that there is no tax on part of the profits of Belgian companies. As former colleague Van der Maelen pointed out, the problem is that there is no exchange of data with foreign countries, which means that no tax is paid. So that's a problem. According to the European Commission, this could be state aid. This subject has already been discussed in this committee and there is also the ruling of the European Court of Justice. In the context of the previous decision, the Belgian State already recovered an important sum from the undertakings concerned. Minister, how many companies actually recovered state aid from the first decision of the European Commission and for what amount? It is then a part or the full EUR 700 million. Were these recoveries included in the tax revenue? If so, for what amount and for what financial year? If the amounts recovered were to be returned to the undertakings concerned in full, what would be the budgetary impact and for what financial year? Belgium has appealed against that first decision of the European Commission. Can it be inferred from this that Belgium will appeal against any decision of the European Commission which states that an individual over-profit rotation concerns illegal state aid? It's about the 39 files that have now been announced. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u19	Mr Ravyts, we have taken note of the European Commission's press release. We have also received the official documents. It is first and foremost important to analyse the European Commission's grievances in order to determine the appropriate method of approach on this basis. Since 3 February 2015, the date on which the European Commission formally announced that it was going to investigate excess profit rulings as a possible element of State aid, no more rulings were allowed or renewed. As far as Mr Bertels's question is concerned, the first European Commission decision speaks of 39 companies enjoying an excess profit ruling (EPR). All 39 were subject to taxation. The total amount is EUR 904 million, as indicated in the European Commission's press release of 11 January 2019. Of this total, EUR 107 million has been released in consultation with the European Commission, as some companies objected to non-accountable elements such as double taxation or the deduction of tax latency. The amounts actually recovered were indeed included in the tax revenue, in particular under the corporate tax budget article. In the financial year 2016, EUR 391 million was registered and EUR 223 million in the financial year 2017. In the financial year 2018, 150 million were paid. In the financial year 2018, the repayment of 107 million was also made and I referred to it earlier. Overall, this means a total net deposit of EUR 657 million to the recipient offices of the recovery services. A number of companies also carried out a cantonment of EUR 140 million. The European Commission considers this amount to be recovered EPR. Overall, therefore, 797 million euros were recovered in net terms and 904 million euros in gross terms. In the event of any reimbursement, the aid recovered should be increased by a moratorium. Those moratorium interests correspond to the EU compound interest rate and not to the moratorium interests applied by the Belgian State. This percentage is revised monthly by the European Commission. The Commission has decided to initiate individual investigations into the 39 companies concerned. I asked my administration for advice on the outcome of this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u20	Madam President, Minister, to end with the latter, you have asked your administration for advice, but you do not give the content of that opinion. So it won't be there yet. Work in progress, then.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the specific figures you have mentioned, which clarify this. The basic problem, of course, was too flexible interpretation and the lack of clear criteria for the exchange of data with abroad, which in practice created a system of double non-taxation rather than a system of avoiding double taxation. There was a broad consensus in the Chamber on avoiding double taxation, but it was by no means the intention to organise non-taxation. I therefore believe that we must combat this. With regard to the procedure to be followed, you have requested an opinion from your administration. If you have received that advice, I would ask you to give it to us immediately. This matter requires a follow-up to the further procedure. We would also like to examine the potential budgetary consequences which, according to our wildest calculations, could rise to EUR 1 billion gross.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u22	Minister, Article 472 of the Income Tax Code states that cadastral income is fixed by cadastral parcel and that the administration of the cadastral parcels shall carry out the appraisal of the parcels in accordance with the rules and forms laid down by the King. The Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 on the constitution and updating of cadastral documentation, which replaces the old provisions, therefore has a direct tax impact on the taxpayer. To each plot created is indeed associated a cadastral income. Article 19 of the said Royal Decree leaves it to the administration to determine on a case-by-case basis how to cadastral the buildings which are not included in the forecasts of the Royal Decree. This delegation of authority appears not to be acceptable under Article 472 above. Moreover, for reasons of tax fairness and in order to avoid abuse, it is important to frame the action of the administration more closely. Minister, in the event of irregularly fixed cadastral incomes, do you intend to correct this gap quickly and propose a royal decree regulating the cadastralization of buildings that do not fit into the forecasts of the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u23	Dear colleague, the new provisions of the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 mainly update provisions that had become obsolete. Some were from 1877. The tax impact of the new provisions is extremely limited. The difference in cadastral income would in principle be limited to the rounding of partial income totals. Article 19 of the Royal Decree in question was added for the exceptional case which would not have been provided for in the preceding articles. Despite the fact that these articles cover a multitude of situations, it is still possible that a very specific property is built and that the administration is faced with a situation that does not seem compatible with the rules in place. For example, the administration found itself in a comparable situation when the metro stations had to be cadastralized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers, but they do not answer my question. However, efforts should be made to improve legislation in relation to specific cases, in order to establish criteria for setting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u25	Minister, this question too is now somewhat out of date. Allow me to update them a little bit. After the drone attack on Saudi installations, oil prices rose. Meanwhile, the situation has stabilised again, but the price increases in Belgium are, of course, reinforced by the valuation. Any subsequent price reductions are partly converted into excise duties. For example, we see this in the cliquet system. Half a drop in prices is converted into an effective drop and half into an excise duty or some kind of tax. The purpose of the cliquet system was to equalise diesel and petrol prices, but that goal has now been achieved. How do you estimate the tax impact of future price increases of diesel, petrol, fuel oil and kerosene for consumers? The cliquet system misses its original purpose, determined by the legislator. What's your reaction to that? What measures can be taken to curb price increases in favour of consumers? In the context of a government in current cases, could urgent action be taken if it were effectively to bring about a new oil crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u26	With regard to excise duties, there is no tax impact of the possible price increase you mentioned. You are talking about the cliquet system, where any subsequent price reductions are partly converted into excise duties. That cliquet system stopped on 31 December 2018. In current cases, it is not possible to take any measures that could slow down a possible rise in crude oil prices for consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u27	Mr Minister, I thought any increases in the cliquet system had been stopped, but is the cliquet system completely written out of the law? I wasn't aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u28	It's in the law, but it's been deactivated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u29	Thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u30	Mr Minister, I come back to the answer to Parliamentary question No 2613 put by our excellent colleague Luk Van Biesen on the eligibility of expenditure made six months before the signing of framework agreements. In fact, you were aware that corporate tax reform can still be considered as an exceptional circumstance referred to in FAQ 3 of September 13, 2017 and which deals with the same subject, for all the framework agreements signed until December 31, 2019. You also indicated that legislative intervention would be required. In the absence of legislative intervention, as of 1 January 2020, the audiovisual sector will again face this problem of prior expenditure and the application of FAQ 3 of 13 September 2017 which, in particular, raised the parliamentary question of Luk Van Biesen. Many Belgian intermediaries and production companies find it even more difficult in the second half of 2019 to find the financial means necessary for the production of their audiovisual works and the exceptional circumstances that led to your previous answer are still present. Therefore, is legislative intervention foreseen before the end of 2019 and, if not or in doubt, is it possible to grant the sector a further deadline pending such intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u31	Mr Piedboeuf, I will refer to the answer to Parliamentary Question No 2613 by Mr Luk Van Biesen of 1 April this year. I noted that, due to the recent approval of the additional corrections to ensure the return on investments as a result of the corporate tax reform, the latter could still be considered an exceptional circumstance referred to in the Frequently Asked Question 3 (FAQ 3). As a result, expenditure up to a maximum of six months prior to the signing of the Framework Convention until 31 December could be considered eligible. I also noted that this motive would no longer be accepted beyond 1 December. Finally, I pointed out that legislative intervention was being prepared to resolve the problem at the origin of this parliamentary question, as this intervention would be within a clear and well-defined legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u32	Minister, thank you for making it clear that the text is still in preparation. Therefore, I hope that we will reach the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u33	Minister, this question concerns the financial transaction tax. In 2011, the European Commission proposed a harmonised tax on financial transactions across the European Union. In 2013, it became clear that no majority would be found at European Union level and discussions continued in the context of so-called enhanced cooperation between a number of countries including Belgium, Germany, France, Austria, Slovakia and a few other countries. These negotiations were also a success. Last year Germany and France decided to give a new impetus together and put forward a joint proposal together. I now have a few questions about the state of play. What position has the Federal Government taken on that proposal by France and Germany, both at the Ecofin meeting on 12 March, the informal meeting on 14 June and at the preparatory meetings in the working group? Has the financial transaction fee been discussed again at the informal meeting on 13 and 14 September? At the recent meeting on 10 October, the fee was discussed in the context of financing additional budget for the euro area. What position did you take at the time? How does the Minister estimate that a version or a variant of the Franco-German proposal will enter into force from 1 January 2021? In the meantime, have any new Member States shown interest in participating in this financial transaction tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u34	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, the path to work through the German-French proposal was presented to ministers in the financial transaction tax through enhanced cooperation, on the occasion of a meeting in the margins of the Ecofin meeting of 21 June 2018. The proposal was based on the existing French taxe sur les transactions finances. Compared to the Commission's original proposal, this proposal has a much more limited basis; derivatives, among others, are no longer intended, and the idea of curbing speculation through this tax and pointing the financial sector at its responsibility is, in fact, no longer reflected in this proposal. The proposal has more characteristics of an ordinary stock market fee. On the occasion of the meeting of Ministers in the margins of the Ecofin meeting of 12 March 2019, the Austrian Presidency of the enhanced cooperation explained the taxable basis provided for in the proposal, namely the purchase of shares of companies with a stock market capitalization of at least 1 billion, the principle of mutualisation of revenues............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Belgium has stated that the proposal, and certainly the specific aspects cited, will be carefully examined. The meeting of ministers in the margins of the ECOFIN meeting on 14 June focused on the issue of whether or not the transactions made by pension funds could be taxable and the possible mutuation of FTT revenues. Belgium has pointed out that, in line with the government agreement, the relief of pension-related products has always been a major concern for Belgium. Taking into account, among other things, the fact that the current proposal has all the characteristics of a stock exchange fee, Belgium also pointed out that, in order to avoid distortion of competition within the EU, a wider field of application across all Member States would be preferable. In the working groups, Belgium has always contributed positively and constructively to the discussions. This dossier was not dealt with at COREPER level. Then I come to your second question. FTT was not on the agenda of the informal Ecofin meeting on 13 and 14 September 2019. Nor was there a meeting of the ministers concerned in the margins of the meeting. Thirdly, the discussion of the FTT dossier was not on the agenda of the Ecofin meeting of 10 October 2019. To date, there is no clarity as to whether the Austrian Presidency of the FTT will organise enhanced cooperation or a meeting with ministers in the margins of the meeting. Fourthly, in view of the fact that the draft directive has not yet been finalised and the procedure still to be followed, it seems premature to make a reliable assessment of the current situation. Fifthly, at the moment I have no knowledge of Member States that may be interested in participating in enhanced cooperation under the FTT.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u35	You say, Minister, that this item was not on the agenda for the 10 October meeting. In the meantime, the meeting took place and the report stated that France raised the issue in the context of possible additional financing of the euro area. So this point has been raised somewhere, has it not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u36	If I could just clarify this for a moment. One of the measures taken concerns the so-called BICC Budget Instrument for Convergence and Competitiveness. An agreement has been reached on the allocation of such a budget. Its financing has not yet been discussed. Many countries have expressed their views on the fact that this should be part of the MFF, but no decision has yet been taken on funding. France may have mentioned this, but this was not at the heart of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u37	I would like to say the following about the substance of the debate. About ten years ago, the financial sector was in a severe crisis. Governments of many European countries have spent thousands of billions of euros to save the financial sector. In 2011, the European Commission itself sent a message to the world entitled "The financial sector must finally pay its fair contribution." This was not a message from any action group, but the title of a press release from the Commission. Since the first proposals in 2011, their content has been systematically undermined. The last proposals aim at a yield of about 15% of the original proposal. We seem to forget rather quickly what happened ten years ago. So I'd like to make a call. I also think I understand that we are on the same page in this respect. I would like to call for a firm stance with our country towards a financial transaction tax, taking into account the original intention of combating speculation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u38	Minister, on 13 and 14 September the EU Finance Ministers met informally under the Finnish Presidency to vote among other things the violins on their role in combating climate change, a noble goal in itself. Minister, what proposals has Belgium made or supported to optimise the use of European funds for strong climate action in the Member States and to ensure that finance ministers cooperate best in key climate-related areas? Secondly, future reforms of European legislation on taxes on energy products and electricity were also on the agenda. The Finnish Finance Minister stated that the outcome of the discussions should be taken into account in the final reform of the Energy Taxation Directive. What was the outcome of that discussion? What position did Belgium take on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u39	As Mr Ravyts apologizes, his question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u40	The theme of climate change was discussed during the informal lunch. At that time, I talked about making better use of the European funds to promote climate action, inter alia, by seeking the necessary coherence in the policies of the national promotional banks, the European Investment Bank and other international financial institutions. My colleagues and I believe that we have an essential role to play in tackling climate change. Regular ECOFIN discussions on climate action therefore seem to me to be necessary. The Finnish Presidency proposed regular consideration of climate issues at the Ecofin meetings. This proposal was endorsed by the Finance Ministers. The Finnish Presidency will therefore draw up a work programme in the near future. On the basis of that work programme, climate issues will be regularly on the agenda of the Ecofin meetings for a certain period of time. Belgium is in favour of a revision of the energy tax directives. During the discussion we reached a consensus on the necessary revision and modernisation of that directive, because it is not adapted to the latest technological developments. In this respect, we have nothing against the use of the Energy Directive as an environmental instrument, insofar as an in-depth scientific study of its feasibility is carried out, which does not lead to disproportionate administrative burdens for citizens and trade and becomes a holistic approach involving all parties involved in the discussion. The European Commission will continue working on a possible proposal based on its Energy Taxation Review Report of 12 September 2019. With regard to the Capital Markets Union, Belgium has highlighted the importance of broadening investment opportunities for retail investors, facilitating access for SMEs to the Capital Markets Union, taking action on sustainable financing and removing obstacles to cross-border investment. It is awaiting the newly constituted Commission for concrete proposals. However, the Commission has already indicated that a high-level forum would be set up with the participation of both private and public stakeholders and academics. The final report with concrete policy recommendations is expected by summer 2020. The crypto coins and the so-called stablecoins, including the Libra, were only discussed during the Eurogroup on 13 September last in the context of a debriefing on the G7 meeting in Chantilly. Most Member States, including our country, expressed concern about the Libra initiative and stressed the importance of good analysis and common action. A G7 working group, led by ECB director Benoît Coeuré, is currently completing a report on digital coins to be presented at the next G7 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in the context of the IMF and World Bank Group annual meeting. As regards the evaluation and possible revision of the existing budgetary rules, the informal Ecofin Council wanted to provide input to the European Commission. The discussion takes place on the basis of a report from the European Fiscal Board. It is the new Commission that will prepare an evaluation of the budgetary rules. During the discussion, I underlined that our country is open to adjusting the budgetary rules in order to make them more transparent and simpler, but at the same time that flexibility is needed. This flexibility is needed to promote investment, given the significant investment gap in most EU Member States. Belgium is aware that the discussion will not be easy, but points out that productive investment is also needed in Member States with little budgetary space and high debt. We therefore call for consideration to be given to the possibility of treating public debt related to productive and growth-enhancing investments as a separate category. In addition, we believe that the current investment clause should be revised, as the conditions attached to it, particularly very negative output gaps, mean that no Member State will be eligible for application of that clause. Finally, the current debt regime, which makes it very difficult for Member States with high debt in an environment of low inflation and low growth to respect it, should become more flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u41	Minister, the fight against global warming will be a common battle for all of us, not just for a climate minister. I am therefore pleased that this is becoming increasingly clear, including in Europe. In order to strengthen this type of cooperation and to think about who can contribute to the solution of the climate problem from our own powers, you will always find a partner in us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u42	Madam President, Minister, recently the Belgian court exposed the European VAT fraud involving containers of Chinese Amazon sellers. They shall use the customs procedure CP42. This is a scheme used by importers to obtain a VAT exemption. Document fraud will ultimately ensure that no VAT is paid and that the goods are ultimately sold below the price on the market. I have four questions about that. Firstly, the customs authorities automatically check all electronic import declarations for this CP42 risk. What proportion of the total electronic import declarations showed such a risk in 2018 and 2019? Secondly, customs can also carry out a check if there is a CP42 risk. How many such controls were effectively carried out during the same period and how many cases of fraud were detected? Thirdly, the customs authorities may, in case of doubt, require a guarantee for VAT before releasing the goods. How many such guarantees were required in the same years? How often was assistance sought from other Member States? Finally, to what extent is there cross-border cooperation with other European tax administrations in order to effectively tackle this fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u43	Madam President, in 2018, there were 8,990,000 electronic import declarations, and in 3,095,000 of them the customs procedure 42 was mentioned. This represents a share of 34.4 %. Until 31 August of this year, there were a total of 6,556 000 electronic import declarations, of which 2,012,000 reported scheme 42. This is a share of 30.7 %. I come to your second question. In 2018, 15,118 declarations with a scheme 42 were checked due to a tax risk. In 2019 there were 12.506. In 2018, 631 findings were made on those 15,118 controls. In 2019 there were 690 findings, on the 12,506 controls. However, these findings are not only related to the VAT risk. In the majority of cases, the misuse of scheme 42 combined with other fiscal and non-fiscal risks is endorsed. In principle, under scheme 42, VAT is payable in the country of destination. We therefore have no data on this. I come to your third question. In the case of scheme 42, Directive 2006/112/EC provides for an exemption from VAT on imports where the goods are declared to customs for consumption. At that time, the customs authorities may submit evidence that the imported goods are intended for another Member State. There are no guarantees for VAT and there is little international mutual assistance at the time when the goods are declared for consumption under scheme 42. This is a VAT regulation, for which the customs authorities are not competent to investigate and recover. Finally, I come to your fourth question. The fight against these mechanisms requires intensive cooperation between customs and tax services in Europe. The European legal framework for this cooperation has recently been strengthened. Thanks to these new measures, customs officers have access to the register of VAT identification numbers and VAT lists. In order to combat fraud, data collected by the customs authorities under the CP42 scheme will also be made available to the competent tax authorities in the Member State of destination of the goods. At Eurofisc, of which the BBI is a member and in which it operates, the activity domain No. 3 specially dedicated to the detection of and the fight against these fraud typologies. In 2018, Member States detected 5,864 descriptions across Europe. Of these, 16.2% were found to relate to fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u44	Mr Minister, I was shocked that you said in your reply to my third question about these very high figures that no guarantees and no assistance were requested. I read between the lines of your reply that there is really very little cooperation between the Member States on this issue. And then there are those in this House who are in favour of harmonising everything at European level. If we already see in practice that all the administrations cannot work together, how would we ever manage to harmonise everything on a European scale? There are serious questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u45	Question No 55000563C by Mrs Leroy is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u46	Minister, the reputation of the Red Cross and its public utility service are no longer to be demonstrated. Indeed, we are living in an age of increasing social inequalities. Everyone is therefore aware of the indispensable social role that this association plays in our society. Since 1 April, certain activities of the Red Cross, such as the sale of second-hand clothing or brocante, have now been subject to a VAT rate of 21%. These sales activities make it possible to finance solidarity actions, social grocery stores, the distribution of food parcels, etc. In one way or another, this increase in VAT will directly impact the poorest. So I have two questions for you. Why does the administration subject the Red Cross to the VAT system? What provisions are used by the administration to justify such subjugation? Would it be possible to reduce VAT to 6% when the sale of second hand equipment has a social object? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u47	Before answering the questions, it should be made clear that my administration is subject to professional secrecy and that it is not possible for me to answer the questions directly. However, I would like to reiterate the basic principles in this area. The concept of taxable persons with regard to VAT is defined in Article 4 of the VAT Code. For second-hand goods stores (clothing, furniture, etc.) VAT legislation does not allow us to exempt these sales, even if the revenue will be used to finance actions of a social nature. In general, the sale of certain second hand goods may benefit from the rate of 6% if the conditions of heading 13a of Table A of the Annex to Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of VAT are met. I guess you're going to have to look at this document. This heading lists, inter alia, those bodies which may, under certain conditions, benefit from this reduced rate. I invite the Red Cross to contact my administration directly and provide it with all the necessary information to decide on the applicable rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u48	Indeed, minister, I will look at this article more closely. I see that there may be an opening and I welcome it. I will follow this closely because there is the poverty aspect concerned, but also the circular economy aspect. I think it is also interesting for all of us to incentivize rather than penalize when goods can be reused rather than disposed of.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u49	Question No 55000626C by Mrs Len Dierick is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u50	Minister, in 2018, 5,860 people invested in young companies through the start-up tax shelter mechanism for a total amount of €39.6 million. This represents a strong increase in one year – in 2017, this figure amounted to 3,427 people for 33.1 million euros. This tax framework allows for a reduction of the PPI from 30 to 45 % for SMEs and micro-enterprises based in Belgium who are under four years of age. This framework was put in place in 2015. This is a very interesting tool, which we support. It allows us to respond to a real demand from those who start their business to be able to finance themselves. Minister, what type of business (sector, number of employees, etc.) have made use of this provision? I also wanted your opinion on the possibility of expanding the system. I am thinking in particular of two types of companies: the reward crowdfunding platforms. There are not direct financial investments but services and goods exchanged for an investment. In the previous parliamentary term, my group had proposed an amendment to this option. Today, only equity crowdfunding is included in the tax shelter system. This is technical but important because the award concerns many projects with social-environmental impacts. And, moreover, the cooperatives recognised in the new Corporate Code following the reform of your colleague Koen Geens, would it be possible to include them in the system as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u51	My colleague, in the table I have just made available to you, you will find the list of companies that have benefited from the tax shelter measure for start-ups, indicating the sector of activity and the number of staff. Cooperatives are not excluded from the scheme. To be eligible, however, the company concerned must not have reduced its capital. However, the capital of a cooperative society varies greatly depending on the entry and exit of the co-operatives. The condition concerning the reduction of capital applies to all companies. It does not seem excessive to us as it aims to delimit the scope of application by really focusing on start-ups. Some abuses should be avoided, for example, in the case of a company under four years of age, which has reduced its capital and is not in a financial deficit situation. The Commission would not need to benefit from the tax shelter measure. In a crowdfunding equity system, as is currently the case, the taxpayer actually invests in the business concerned and receives shares in exchange for its contribution. He is therefore the owner of a part of the enterprise. With a crowdfunding reward, as you suggest, there is no investment per se. The natural person gives money to a company and the latter subsequently rewards that person, often by providing him with the product or service developed by that company free of charge. This form of financing is therefore similar to a sale of the products and services to be produced by the company, not a medium- or long-term investment in the company's venture capital. The aim of this tax reduction was precisely to provide the companies concerned with alternative sources of venture capital financing, which the crowdfunding reward does not allow. For all these reasons, we do not intend to propose changes to the current regime. In any event, such changes would exceed the dispatch of routine business. I am, of course, always prepared to study changes to this system which, for the time being, is still quite efficient, but which can always improve.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u52	Thank you Minister for the table, for the figures and for your answers. Indeed, the system works well. Our real concern is to ensure that a whole system of the economy with social, environmental, positive and sustainable impact can also benefit from this type of support. It is for this reason that I referred in particular to cooperatives and crowdfunding reward. Indeed, we know that these somewhat technical names often bring together all these initiatives. For this reason, we believe that cooperatives should be treated differently, although I understand the concern about the reduction in capital. As far as crowdfunding is concerned, I think we should be able to move forward. I hear the argument of investing in venture capital. However, the vast majority of projects we know about crowdfunding award are truly local, sustainable, and have a positive social and societal impact. I think we really need to be able to help them, too. I wanted to have your opinion, but we will be happy to have a parliamentary initiative in this committee. I just wanted to talk about this subject that is dear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u53	Chairperson: Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u54	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your kindness and courtesy. Minister, a citizen inquiry has recently shed light on the least questionable use of applications for cadastral extracts. While the FPS Finances lists in a limited way the reasons justifying an application, it appears that real estate developers are asking for extracts for purposes other than those listed. They make use of the personal data they acquire from the FPS Finances in order to approach owners to offer to buy their property. Such a practice undermines the privacy of our citizens and is contrary to the General European Data Protection Regulation. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Do you confirm that an application for a cadastral extract cannot be made for commercial release? Has the administration already found such a practice on the part of real estate developers? Does the FPS Finance verify, at least in the event of repeated requests from the same person, the applicant's motivation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u55	My colleague, the request for an extract, both on MyMinfin and on paper form, limits the possibility of receiving a cadastral extract to that of legal or legitimate grounds. These reasons were established in accordance with the Royal Decree of 30 July 2018 laying down the conditions for issuing cadastral extracts. The issuance or use of cadastral information for commercial, political or electoral purposes is prohibited by this Royal Decree. The administration is currently examining a complaint in this regard. The administration shall ensure the identity of the applicant, which shall enable him to systematically identify any application and verify it ex post facto. These checks are carried out well and we regularly send letters to applicants requesting further information. However, it is not possible for us to verify a priori whether each pattern is correctly chosen. There is also a responsibility in the applicant's head who, at the time of his online application, inevitably receives a warning during the procedure of his/her application(s), such that the reason given must be in accordance with the rules in force. The electronic exchange of certain cadastral data with real estate agents, members of the Professional Institute of Real Estate Agents (IPI), is regulated by a specific authorisation of the Commission for the Protection of Privacy or, now, the Data Protection Authority (PAD). This access is only permitted on condition that they exclusively use cadastral data in the context of a specific sales or rental mission entrusted by their customer, never for commercial prospecting or marketing purposes or for the purpose of updating the cadastre. The Commission recalled that the IPI has a supervisory role. A citizen can always lodge a complaint with the FPS Finances or apply directly to ODA if he or she considers that he or she has been injured in his or her rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u56	Minister, if I understand correctly, the user can file a complaint with the IPI. Thank you for your reassuring response because, in fact, real estate developers send information from cadastral extracts to property owners to offer to buy them back. I therefore believe that there is a clear case of a violation of the law. I think it would be good, Minister, if this problem were to be repeated, for a message to be sent to the real estate agents and developers sector reminding them of their obligations, including respect for privacy and the use of cadastral information only for the purposes provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u57	Minister, in Belgium, private and knowledge-based employers can be exempted from paying 80% of the tax on the wages of researchers they employ. Since 1 January 2018, that measure has been extended to a number of bachelor's degrees. For those diplomas, the exemption applies only to 40% of the tax due and is limited to 50% of the total amount of the exemption applied to employees with a specific master's or doctor's degree for small companies. For the other companies, the exemption is limited to 25% of the total amount applied to employees with a specific master's or doctor's degree. From 2020, the exemption for bachelor degrees will be increased to 80%. How much was the tax expenditure of the scheme for researchers per year since 2015? What was the budgetary impact of extending the scheme to Bachelor's degrees in 2018 and 2019? What is the expected budgetary impact of the further extension of the Bachelor's Diploma Scheme by 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u58	The exemption from the transfer of the corporate tax on scientific research, including the exemption for bachelor's degrees, amounts to EUR 1,26,335,422 for the 2018 income year. The data for the most recent years are included in a table, which you will be handed over. The specific exemption introduced in 2018 from the transfer of corporate tax on scientific research by persons with a bachelor's degree amounts to EUR 39,703,893 for the 2018 revenue year. However, it should be noted that the system was probably not yet at cruising speed in 2018. For 2019 no definitive figures are yet available. In relation to the budgetary impact, the overall theoretical budgetary cost of the exemption from corporate tax for scientific research amounts to EUR 722.745.404 for the revenue year 2018 and EUR 27.959.481 for the bachelor's degrees. That is, of course, a purely budgetary approach. There is also an economic impact of this reduction, which, in my view, goes beyond the right job creation, as it is about jobs that create more innovation. As regards the evolution for the revenue years 2020 and subsequent, the average growth of the exemptions for the Master's degrees in recent years has been taken into account. It is on average 7%. Thus, the exemption for the 2020 revenue year is estimated at EUR 53,358,599,47. The theoretical budgetary costs for the 2020 revenue year are, when we take into account a corporate tax rate of 25 %, 40.018.949.60 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u59	Minister, I assume there is an economic impact of this tax exemption. If there are more demonstrable data available, you can always deliver it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u60	Questions No 55000656C by Mrs Len Dierick and No 55000755C by Mr Hugues Bayet are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u61	Madam President, Minister, as a newcomer, first of all I have a general question. I see the Civil List is with Minister Wilmès, while the donations are with you. What's the logic of that? Wouldn't it be more efficient to place both responsibilities with one minister? Recently we received the activity report from the royal family. That is particularly interesting reading for romantics who want to follow the trade and walk of the royal family. However, the venom is in the tail. All the way back we find the Court of Auditors' report. About the donations to Prince Laurent is literally read, I quote: "These include costs and rewards paid by Prince Laurent in order to recover the claim of vzw Global Sustainable Development Trust (GSDT) in liquidation, in the context of his activities of general interest in favour of the environment. It also includes the costs of setting up the non-profit-making Environment Network, which will continue the social objective of the non-profit-making association GSDT in liquidation." I looked this up. We know that Prince Laurent has been trying for years to obtain compensation from the Libyan government. In 2014, the non-profit organisation GSDT was equal in both first instance and appeal. Prince Laurent, together with his wife and a good friend, founded the non-profit association Environment Network to take over the activities and net assets of the non-profit organisation GSDT. We read in the Court of Auditors' report that these costs were included in the figures. My questions to you are the following. Firstly, is it true that such legal costs, fees and costs of creation are paid with the donations? If yes, please provide an overview of the costs, fees and establishment costs per recipient of the donations. Secondly, the Court of Auditors controls only the legality and regularity of the part of the amount corresponding to operating and staff expenditure, i.e. EUR 190,000 out of the total EUR 307,000. Do such legal costs, fees and costs of establishment actually fit into the figures in general and the above mentioned section "operations and staff" in particular? Thirdly, what is the government's position on this state of affairs? Do you see possibilities to delete or recover such expenditures from the donations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u62	Mr Vermeersch, the following data are provided on the basis of the Law of 27 November 2013 on the donations and allowances granted to members of the royal family as well as the transparency of the financing of the monarchy. Doses to the members of the royal family are included, together with other donations, under section 01 "Documents of the general expenditure budget'. With such a provision, Parliament shall, at the expense of the Treasury, make available to institutions and bodies the means to carry out, independently, a specific task or to perform functions for the benefit of the general interest. To this end, the beneficiary of a donation may, in his own right, have the resources available. Parliament has the sovereign power to grant a grant. It has neither an obligation nor a prohibition to do so. By putting together a donation, the Nation wishes to make budgetary resources available to the member of the royal family concerned so that he could best serve the country's general interest with his status and independence. The possibility of controlling the amounts is therefore an autonomous competence of Parliament. The beneficiary of a donation, charged to the State Treasury, should account in general terms for the use of such funds. I refer to the opinion 31626/4 of 11 July 2001 of the legislative section of the Council of State: 'Budget law means 'dotation' a credit which is included in the general expenditure budget, but whose use is regulated by the institution to which it is granted. Those who receive the donation do not need to show that they are being used for a particular purpose." The amounts thus imply, in principle, that the institution it receives has a certain degree of autonomy. Article 3 of the aforementioned Act of 27 November 2013 states that the amount consists of a remuneration component and a part corresponding to operating and staff expenditure. Article 14 of that law states that the first chairman and the chairman of the Court of Auditors shall examine the legality and regularity of the expenditure charged in the provision. Chapter 3 sets out the rules on transparency and control. Chapter 4 contains the code of conduct. It can be concluded from the foregoing that the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for monitoring the use of the funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for reading the law, but I have come up with nothing further. You haven't answered my questions. Last week we saw in this committee that the king can simply put the school bills of the king's children, yet private expenses, into his Civilian List and have them paid by the taxpayer. Today we also see that Prince Laurent can simply put legal costs and foundation costs, in my opinion also private expenses, into his donations. You allow all that, you don't criticize it. You'll get no further than repeating the law. The taxpayer should just cough up those costs. I find that scandalous. My party will never agree to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u64	Minister, I asked the Budget Minister this question, but the question was referred to you. I do not see why it was difficult for her to answer a question of a budgetary nature. The law introducing the tax shift measures dates back to 2015, but these measures came into force on different dates in subsequent years. Today, we are more or less at the end of this process and it would be useful to take stock of it. So my first question is what is the budgetary balance of the shift tax measures, those that reduce and those that increase the state's revenues. What is the total amount of tax shift measures that reduce government revenues? What is the breakdown of this amount into the following categories: fiscal measures, social security measures and other measures? Thirdly, what is the total amount of tax shift measures increasing government revenues? Again, what is the breakdown of this amount into the following categories: fiscal measures, social security measures and other measures? These are numbers, but not too much, so I thought I could put them to you orally, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u65	As regards the calculation of the budget balance of the tax shift, it goes without saying that it takes some time to determine the budgetary impact arising from the various measures taken in this field. Within the time limit, it is not feasible to make the necessary calculation. Finally, with regard to the effect of the tax shift on social security, I would refer you to my competent colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health and Asylum and Migration. I can also refer you to the answer to Mr Hendrik Bogaert's written question No 29.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for this long answer and reference to another colleague on social security issues. This is a question I asked on September 30, 2019. I think in the meantime, she has moved from your colleague Wilmès to you. I believe that such a delay was not totally impracticable. There were no dozens of encrypted data. If I understand your answer, apart from the question concerning your social security colleague, I should ask you a written question, is that right, minister? Or would you refer me to Mr Bogaert's question? That's perfect, thank you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u67	Minister, our country's auto-tax is largely determined by CO2 emissions from vehicles. Since the article in the law refers to the data relating to the CO2 emission levels available from the Vehicle Registration Office (DIV), the tax authorities argue that the data on the registration certificate should be taken for the correct figure. If no official CO2 emissions are available on the registration certificate, the flat-rate values of 195 or 205 g/km for diesel and petrol respectively shall apply. As a result of a ministerial decision of 24 April 2019, the DIV no longer mentions CO2 values on the registration certificate since 1 July 2019. In this context, I have the following questions, Minister. Do you agree that the taxpayer should be allowed to base himself on the data on CO2 emissions on the conformity attestation, because they have always been the same as those on the registration certificate, or should Article 198a be interpreted in such a way that only the CO2 values included in the FPS Mobility and Transport database can now be taken? This database can be consulted online on the basis of the chassis number, but it may contain errors, which may lead to a deviation from the authentic conformity attestation that belongs to the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u68	Mrs Depoorter, for the calculation of the benefits of all kinds and the deductible professional costs related to vehicles, the CO2 emission content is used, among other things. Taxpayers and the administration should initially base themselves on the CO2 emission content available to the DIV. The fact that the DIV no longer mentions emissions on the registration certificate since 1 July 2019 does not mean that the service does not have the CO2 emission content. This content can be consulted on the website of the FPS Mobility and Transport and is also mentioned on conformity attestations. If this is not the case, a taxable person may apply to the DIV. I would also like to point out that two CO2 emissions may have to be mentioned on the conformity test, namely WLTP and NEDC. In this respect, it was decided that the NEDC value should be taken into account for vehicles with two emission levels until 31 December 2020. It goes without saying that the CO2 emissions of the vehicle in question must be taken into account, as it is known from the FPS Mobility and Transport DIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u69	I understand from your reply, Minister, that this information can be taken into account. I would also like to draw your attention to the proposal on auto-taxation that we have tabled. We like simple taxation, and it seems to us that it is very cumbersome at the moment for the accounting authorities to determine the taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u70	Mr Vice Prime Minister, this question concerns the flat-rate benefits of all kinds. The principle is that a enjoyer of an advantage of all kinds is taxed on the basis of its actual value. It is therefore necessary to take into account the amount that the recipient of the advantage would have to spend itself in normal circumstances in order to obtain that benefit. In addition, there is also the flat-rate benefit of all kinds. In this context, there has been a discussion that seems to have been settled for some time. Where a taxable person enjoys the advantage and pays a market-based own contribution to his company which is less than the flat-rate advantage of all kinds, the question arises as to whether a taxable advantage of all kinds should still be taken into account. In the past, your predecessors have always taken the view that the taxpayer's own contribution could only be deducted from the flat-rate benefit and thus not from its actual value. They considered that if the taxable person's own contribution was lower than the lump sum benefit, the taxable person would still be taxed on the balance, even if his own contribution had been market-oriented. The court of appeal of Ghent recently stated in a judgment that this view would not be in line with the principle of fiscal legality and that in that case the taxable person would have the opportunity to provide the counter evidence, which could therefore lead to the adoption of no taxable advantage at all in his claim. Mr Minister, do you think it is correct that this view of the court can also work in the opposite direction, in particular that the tax authorities may fall back on the legal provision which states that an advantage of all kinds should approach the real value? Then the administration could also provide a counter-proof. If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u71	Mr Verherstraeten, this statement can have far-reaching consequences, including in the budgetary field. That is why I cannot give you a final answer to your question today. My administration is currently examining the possible consequences of that ruling of the Antwerp appeal court and the problems you raise. She hasn't reached a conclusion yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for the honest answer. However, taxpayers obviously want to know whether they can focus on that ruling. They therefore also wish to know in advance the administrative practice of the tax administration in part in order to be able to act correctly or to avoid tax disputes. I am aware of its budgetary implications. That is, of course, the reason for my question, because many taxpayers are involved. This may also be the subject of possible future and hopefully very rapid federal negotiations in this area. That is why I suggest that you allow your administration to make transparent calculations that could be given to reformers and democratic formations, so that we can continue to maintain certain fair and reasonable attitudes, in the interest of the public authorities, but also in the reasonable and legitimate interests of taxpayers. I will also suggest this on other occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u73	In addition, I follow your reasoning on uncertainty, Mr Verherstraeten. So I will do everything I can to respond to this as soon as possible. I think the verdict is less than a month old. You have a point and I'm trying to respond as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u74	Minister, as a reminder, excess profit rulings are an aberrant advantage offered to some 30 multinationals in Belgium and designed by PricewaterhouseCoopers' 'transfer price' specialist, your predecessor Didier Reynders having only "take the dishes" in 2004. The measure consists in detaxing in the head of the Belgian subsidiary of a multinational company a profit which would be in excess under the transfer prices, but without taxing the corresponding insufficient profit in the other subsidiary of the group. It is therefore a game of fools in which the dupe part, the Belgian State, has itself set the framework for deception. Even the very liberal European Commission found in 2016 that this offering to multinationals exceeded the limits of reasonable taxation. Belgium was therefore forced to repeal Article 185(2) of the Income Tax Code, which included excess profit rules, but brought an action to ensure that the beneficiary multinationals did not have to repay the tax gifts of the past. The total amount would be around EUR 1 billion. Last February, the Court of the European Union overturned the European Commission's decision but only for a formal question: the Commission had attacked the tax system even though it should have dealt with each individual ruling. What she's gonna do now. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. What is the total amount at stake at this time? How many of the beneficiaries of the excess profit rulings have already repaid the Belgian State and for what amount? Given the difficult budgetary situation of our country, also the fact that the excess profit rules have been removed from our tax legislation, given the likely victory of the European Commission in this new procedure, would Belgium not do better to stand up directly to the Commission's position and to cash the amounts in question which are necessary to solve our budgetary problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u75	The total amount at stake is currently EUR 797 million. All the aid was initially recovered from the 39 companies concerned, either through an effective repayment (EUR 764 million) or by a cantonment of the sums due (EUR 140 million). At present, there is nothing to predict the likely victory of the European Commission, especially since the Belgian State intends to defend its view that excess profit ridings do not constitute State aid in any way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u76	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would remind you, however, that your government has removed the excess profit rules from the legislation. I assume that if they were removed, there was still a concern and that there is a view that there is state aid. In any case, my analysis is that this is a truly problematic and discriminatory measure, which benefits these 39 multinationals. I take note of the fact that, in addition, all the money owed is visibly in the state coffers. This means that if Belgium were successful, even if that's not what the observers say, you should repay 797 million euros, almost a billion euros, to these multinationals. This means a further €797 million in the state budget. That is what you are defending, Minister of Finance, who is responsible for bringing money into the coffers, not emptying the coffers of the state. It's a little surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u77	Question No 55000772C by Mrs Nawal Farih is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u78	Madam President, Minister, during the previous parliamentary term, your predecessor replied to Mr Deseyn's question and provided clarity on the calculation of net assets, in particular on the interplay between the general exception of EUR 3.330, the additional exception for students and orphans and the cost margin of 20%. That was a good thing, because that was clear and then confirmed by two circulars. The problem that arises is that the taxpayer has to make these calculations all by himself. The declaration form does not ask for the means of subsistence, but only for the number of dependent persons. The taxable person must therefore check whether his children do not exceed the maximum limits set, which is not evident and yet requires some calculations. I have noticed that no wizard has so far been provided on Tax-on-Web to help taxpayers. Minister, is it possible, for practical reasons, to provide a wizard? If so, can this happen in the next year of the attack? If you can't, what's the reason for the absence? How can we help taxpayers in this difficult exercise if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u79	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, I believe that such a wizard would be a good thing and would mean simplification for many people. I have had my administration examine whether such a wizard can be developed, but I have not yet received an answer. However, we must take account of the fact that proper analysis and its implementation in the IT systems of the FPS Finance will take some time, especially because we want to be sure that there are no errors in the system. I can't put a timing on it right away, but the question has been asked to the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u80	Minister, I would like to ask you specifically to urge your administration so that there is a result by the time the 2020 declarations are due, which is still about eight to nine months away. I believe that this should be possible within that time frame. I believe that the taxpayers deserve that service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u81	Madam President, Minister, as from 1 January 2020, the Flemish housing bonus will disappear. An important tax deduction is therefore excluded, at least in the case of the first home. As you know, a second home is still eligible for the federal housing bonus. As a result, the Flemings will eventually have to pay more for their first home than for the same second home. Is the Minister aware that the separate tax treatment between the first and second residences is considered unfair by the citizen? Does the Minister share the view of tax experts that this is a conflicting tax policy? After the sixth state reform, finally, the Regions became responsible for the housing bonus on the first home. Doesn't it seem more interesting to the Minister to make the Regions competent for these second residences and property, so that a coherent fiscal policy can be pursued?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u82	Mr Vermeersch, you are talking about a federal housing bonus. There's no such thing. The housing bonus is by definition Flemish. Federally, it's about a basket of long-term savings. There are a lot of different products in that basket long-term savings. This is in there, too. I do think it is contradictory that there would be a tax advantage for a second home, whereas that does not actually exist for the first home. On the other hand, I would like to be careful not to throw the child away with the bath water. Long-term savings are an important tool to encourage people to set aside some of their resources with the prospect of preparing for the cost of ageing. We must leave people free to choose whether to set aside these funds through insurance products, investment products or investment in real estate. That is a general principle, but I am aware that the current situation does not make sense. I think that a next federal government should draw up a coherent policy. We know that the housing bonus in Flanders has indeed been cancelled for the new influx. This has already happened in Brussels. More generally, since the sixth state reform, the regions can introduce tax reductions related to their powers, including tax expenditure on acquiring or maintaining their own home. In addition, the federal government can continue to grant tax advantages through long-term savings for expenditure incurred for the acquisition or maintenance of a property other than its own because this can be considered as building a supplementary pension in the third pillar. This is a federal jurisdiction. However, if you want to build on the principles, as you put them in your last question, then there must be a state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u83	Madam President, Minister, we have already talked about this. Liberals have been at all levels for 20 years in governments, with competent ministers, and we see yet another tax increase. The cost of abolishing the housing bonus amounts to 37 000 euros for a family and 17 000 euros for a single person. It's a shame my colleague Leysen isn't here. He's always pleading for a more efficient government. Well, then, like us, you should argue for further state reform or better'state formation', so that Flanders is finally responsible for taxation and can pursue a coherent fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u84	Question No 55000814C by Mrs Catherine Fonck is transformed into a written question. Question No 55000822C by Mr Kurt Ravyts is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u85	Madam President, Minister, according to information provided by the French press and validated since then by the justice system of this country, Google recently entered into an agreement with the tax administration, paying a little more than one billion dollars to put an end to all the legal and tax proceedings directed against Alphabet (Google). This case raises the question of the effective taxation of these financial giants, the GAFAs, who have become masters in the art of tax avoidance and optimisation, even if one can make a difference between the two. France recently proposed, with the OECD, a concerted GAFA tax project. Our group supports the introduction of a 3% tax-in-principle on the turnover of digital companies and groups with a global annual turnover of more than EUR 750 million, and whose revenues within the European Union would exceed EUR 50 million. According to the European Commission, a 3% tax would generate €5 billion in revenue for the Member States. In general, the application of the current rules governing corporate tax to the digital economy leads to a significant gap between the place where profits are taxed and the place where value is created. It seems obvious that the current rules are no longer suitable for e-commerce. Minister, are you aware of agreements between the Belgian tax administration and digital giants similar to what happened in France? If so, what are the amounts? Is your government, although in day-to-day business, in favour of introducing a tax on digital giants, according to the model proposed by the European Commission and France?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u86	Mr De Smet, it must first be pointed out that any company carrying out taxable activities in Belgium is liable to be subject to tax verification. Currently, the Belgian tax administration has not concluded an agreement with digital giants similar to that with the French national financial prosecutor's office. Belgium has always defended the position of waiting for the project currently under way at the level of the OECD's inclusive framework. This project envisages not only highly digitalised companies such as GAFAs but also the digital transformation that impacts the economy in a wider context. The objective of the OECD project involving 134 countries is to establish a tax framework for taxing profits in jurisdictions where economic value is created, taking into account digital transformation. This issue necessarily requires a multilateral response. National initiatives, such as those taken in France, could create situations of double taxation and distort competition in the world market. Belgium is working constructively on the work of the OECD, which is expected to be completed in 2020, and is not planning to amend its domestic legislation until the completion of this project. I believe that too many national regulations in this area would not be a good thing. We see that these digital activities are still very blurred from a geographical point of view and we support a multilateral approach, as is done within the framework of the OECD.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand the need for a multilateral approach given the nature of the transactions involved. It is always a question of balance: the problem of the OECD agreement is global. If a sufficient number of countries do not validate this type of agreement or if the process is blocked, it will be necessary to speed up the process at European Union level so that there is a mass effect around a few main countries so that even partial taxation can take place. Multilateralism is very good, but if ambition becomes global, it may never happen. It is always the same problem in this kind of taxation. Having said that, I take note of your constructive approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u88	Minister, this is once again a question of a court ruling, this time from the Constitutional Court. If a company grants an advantage to its manager for which no sheet is made, it shall be subject to an attack on secret commissions. However, there is an exception if the beneficiary of the advantage is clearly identified within two and a half years. The question arises as to what should happen if the identification is made shortly after the expiry of the deadline. The Constitutional Court has stated that the current regime could then be a double taxation. According to the Court, whether or not to respect that time limit should not make any difference. In the last legislature, an escape route is foreseen. If there was an attack on the nature of the remuneration, that is to say a special attack that compensates for the fact that the beneficiary of the benefit has not paid any tax on it, this would be compensated. Minister, I only have questions concerning the merging of the Constitutional Court's judgment with the legislation of the previous legislature. Can you clarify the position of the administration regarding the application of the attack on secret commissions following the judgment of the Constitutional Court? Is there going to be a circular? If so, should the judgment be applied to all pending cases? Does this allow taxable persons to apply for an exemption? Secondly, do you think the law needs to be amended? If so, should the remuneration be given, which should in fact take account of the tax assessment periods? In your opinion, should the scheme be of a punitive nature, which would require the legislation to be amended accordingly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u89	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, this answer will be slightly longer than the last two. The administration shall comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court referred to by you of 26 September 2019. A circular will explain this position. By publishing a judgment of the Constitutional Court, the taxable person has the ordinary time limit for objection, but also the five-year period provided for in the event of a new, probative fact. For the purposes of applying the five-year period, the attack may not have already been the subject of an objection giving rise to a final ground decision. The administrative or judicial disputes still pending must be the subject of decisions or conclusions, in accordance with the directives as they will be included in the circular, on the understanding that the burden of proof lies with the taxable person. However, in the absence of an action in the Civil Code, the decision rejecting the objections or applications for exemption of its own motion, which were previously made on the basis of the same complaint, shall be final. Article 219 of the WIB 92 will be amended to ensure that it is no longer contrary to Articles 10, 11 and 172 of the Constitution. That law amendment will respect the choice made at the end of 2014, during a previous amendment of the law article, in order to allow the individual attack to be only of a compensating nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u90	Minister, I believe that maintaining the compensatory nature is de facto the same thing, and it is also budgetaryly neutral for the federal government. This seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u91	Minister, at the end of 2017, Deliveroo announced that all its delivery companies were forced to adopt independent status by January 31 of the following year. They would therefore receive a salary in the race rather than an hourly wage. Without any employment contract, couriers no longer have social protection or insurance in the event of an accident. This is obviously a decision against which we have spoken very strongly during the last parliamentary term because it is a very large social decline, when legislation exists in our country. It seems to us very important to be able to put them in place. This situation is not acceptable to us. Furthermore, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations considered that "the working arrangements proposed by Deliveroo are incompatible with a qualification of self-employment." But this summer, this opinion was invalidated by the Labour Court. The case will not finally be clarified until 2021. In July 2019, I was already questioning Minister Beke of Social Affairs and Employment about the inquiry led by the labour auditorate, which has been going on for two years now, while hundreds of couriers have already been interviewed. This situation, and the fact that we have not yet been able to decide at this level, seems to me to be extremely problematic. I also asked your colleague Mrs Muylle about this. After all these episodes, Deliveroo would become an accredited platform of collaborative economy and in this context, the workers of the platform were exempt from social contributions and taxes but at the end of 2018, the SPF Finances specifies the contours of the law De Croo, the law on the collaborative economy that bears your name, minister, and asserts that the couriers can no longer declare their income under the law. The SPF then makes a "favor" and couriers will not be required to report their revenues for 2018. However, in the future they will no longer benefit from the advantageous framework. What do you think of the FPS Finance decision? Have you been consulted? Did you validate this decision? What is the total amount of social contributions normally due to the State that were cancelled in 2018 via this tax niche? Above all, what about 2019 for couriers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u92	This case is a relatively challenging one. A few weeks ago, the couriers of the multinational Deliveroo received from the platform information about new working conditions, "following discussions with the tax administration". These involve, among other things, the removal of bonuses and the opacity of the place of delivery (the couriers learn where to go when the order is already accepted). The FPS Finance conducted discussions with Deliveroo without consulting or even informing the couriers, which resulted in new working conditions that did not suit them. Recall that a year ago, following the struggle of the Deliveroo workers against their independent status imposed, this multinational was accepted as a platform of collaborative economy within the framework of the so-called De Croo law. While the SPF Finances has reported to him three times (15/6 and 21/12/2018, 14/1/2019) that its couriers do not fall within the framework of the program law of 1 July 2016, Deliveroo continued to impose this tax regime. In May 2019, the couriers turned to the Finance FPS. The latter replied four months later in a statement that the status of collaborative economy finally applied to Deliveroo. So a magic wand wiped out a massive tax fraud since Deliveroo did not accept the three decisions of the FPS Finances. This raises many questions. How do you justify the 180-degree turnaround of your administration in this file? How is it that the FPS Finances enters into an agreement with Deliveroo without the deliverers being involved in the negotiations while, as independents, they should be involved in the peer to peer? Can you provide us with the text of the agreement entered into by the FPS Finances and Deliveroo or at least provide it to the couriers who are the first involved? Can you ensure that revenues reported for 2018 under the collaborative economy will not be re-qualified at a later time? This would obviously be harmful to couriers. What are you going to do to ensure that the status provided for by the program law of 1 July 2016 does not become an umpteenth tax loophole for multinationals? Are you aware of cases of fraud arising from the application of the De Croo law on courier work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u93	Mr Vandenbroucke, I have your question. 55001062C added.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u94	Madam President, Minister, Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Van Hees have correctly outlined the debate on the status of Deliveroo and the resulting tax status of bicycle couriers. So I will not repeat history again. Minister, I understand that, following a discussion with the FPS Finance, Deliveroo replaced its variable reimbursement system with a fixed system. This seems to be sufficient to fall under the conditions of the tax exemption granted to the collaborative economy. However, customer addresses are not displayed when the order is accepted by a courier. The organization of Deliveroo does not change. After all, working conditions and fees are still at the heart of the matter. Since only the compensation system changes, I think it is difficult to refer to a service provided by private individuals to other individuals via a platform. That's the definition of what sharing economy is. I have the following questions. First, can you confirm that the FPS Finance has recognised Deliveroo's fixed remuneration system in application of Article 90 of the WIB 92? Does this recognition apply only to the declaration of revenue 2018 or also to the future? On the basis of what arguments does recognition correspond to the legal definition of sharing economy? How is it checked that platforms are limited to the activities for which and according to the modalities under which recognition was granted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u95	Colleagues, thank you for these questions. I have been consulted by my administration on this matter and I share its position of flexibility vis-à-vis couriers. Indeed, some platforms, although approved as collaborative economy platforms, did not meet the other conditions that would have allowed their couriers to benefit from the collaborative economy tax regime for their revenues earned in this context in 2018. The FPS Finance considered that the couriers concerned did not have to suffer from the complexity of the collaborative economy regime and the misunderstandings generated by it. The couriers, which have many students, have indeed engaged in this activity in order to be able to benefit from the favourable regime of the collaborative economy. For this reason, the FPS Finances granted administrative tolerance to the revenues received by these couriers in 2018, provided that all other conditions of the collaborative economy tax system are met in their leadership. I want to talk about the limit amount and other conditions. With regard to your second question, we cannot provide the contribution figures. With regard to 2019 revenues, the administration requested that the platforms demonstrate greater transparency vis-à-vis their couriers, so that they are clearly informed of the status under which they operate. The administration has always adopted the same position regarding the application of the rules of the collaborative economy. However, it has chosen to be flexible with respect to these couriers so that they do not have to suffer negative impacts since their revenues collected in 2018 should not, according to tax legislation, have been qualified as income from the collaborative economy. Platforms were asked to be in order with tax legislation for the future. They are free to use or not to use the collaborative economy regime to do so. No agreement was reached on the application of the tax law. The administration informed various platforms of the reasons why their system did not meet the conditions of the tax system of the collaborative economy. It was up to the said platforms to adapt their model in order to comply with the tax law. Working conditions and, in general, the social aspect of this scheme are not within the competence of the FPS Finances. Professional secrecy prevents the administration from communicating any documents relating to these files. There is nothing to prevent the platforms, for their part, from communicating the documents that concern them. The administration cannot rule on the decisions that courts and tribunals can take in the future, especially if the relationships between couriers and platforms were to be described as salaried activity. I do not understand how this can lead to tax evasion by multinationals. This is the question of Mr. Van Hees. Perhaps you should reformulate your question, because I don't see how it could be tax evasion. Let me turn to your sixth question. The administration reminded the platforms of the essential conditions of the collaborative economy regime. In the context of tax controls, the administration will not hesitate to sanction any behaviour considered fraudulent, such as the use of a false name, in the manner in which it operates in other sectors of activity. Mr Vandenbroucke, in reply to your question, I can tell you that the FPS Finance Office reminds the platforms that the presence of an agreement between two persons is the fundamental condition for the sharing economy to benefit from the tax system. The FPS Finance did not recognise payment terms, such as a fixed reimbursement system, which are contrary to that condition. The normal control procedures shall apply to platforms approved in the collaborative economy system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u96	In fact, in addition to these working conditions, which for us are not acceptable, the problem is mainly one of blurry, as you said. This vagueness is the result of the lack of clarity in the tax status, and the first to suffer from it are, once again, the couriers themselves. I think it is really important to be able to move forward on this issue with clear rules. I know that this is not within your competence, but it really needs to be determined whether these couriers are actually self-employed or wage earners. In my opinion, this is the first essential thing to do. For us, it is clear that they are employees, and they must be treated as such, with social security coverage and with the benefits that employees enjoy. The labour auditor's case was taken up two years ago, so it's really time to react. I am going to ask your colleague in the field of social affairs and employment, Mrs Muylle, but I think that the problem is really deep and that we will not be able to remedy it until the status is clarified. In our view, it is common sense that these people should be regarded as employees and that they should be given the same rights as wage-earners. Only then will we have more clarity on their tax systems. For the time being, we are in a grey area, a zone of complete blur that does not accommodate couriers, the state and labour regulations. In the face of this situation, everyone is losing, so it is high time to move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u97	Minister, I find this to be a shocking situation, and your answer is no less so. Indeed, the tax administration repeated its position in Deliveroo on three occasions, stating that this situation did not fall within the scope of the so-called "Croo Law". What is Deliveroo doing today? In spite of all this, it imposes this practice, which it fully knows is illegal. Finally, we are faced with a policy of fait accompli, and we see that society continues to act illegally. As for you and the Finance FPS, you accept this situation in the name of flexibility. It is the flexibility of a rule of law over a multinational that imposes its law! That's the reality, Minister! I find this course of operations very serious. You invoke professional secrecy for a document that is sent by the FPS Finances to Deliveroo, but which concerns couriers. As a result, couriers do not have access to this document. It's still amazing. I had access to one of those documents. The FPS Finances wrote to Deliveroo: "The law therefore requires the existence of an agreement between two individuals, in this case the client on the one hand and the courier on the other." However, this agreement does not exist in the current mechanism, since the courier, when accepting the race, does not know the customer. He doesn't even know where the client is. She's a stranger. He then discovers only the place where he has to make his delivery. Therefore, this convention does not exist. It is therefore illegal and you accept this policy of fait accompli. I spoke of tax evasion, Minister, because it is simply legalised black work, where the multinational does not pay taxes or social security contributions. That's why I talked about tax evasion! That's what this is about. You're legalizing something that's illegal. It's legalized fraud. It is not even legalized, since the law says otherwise. You are violating your own law, Mr. De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u98	Minister, unless I missed it, you did not answer my second question, whether the agreement applies only to income 2018 or also to the future. In fact, the other questioners have a point. We're moving into a grey zone here. The way in which the agreement has been reached is a slippery slope, in which the definition of sharing economy, namely a service from one citizen to another, will be completely undermined. I therefore call on you to clarify this matter as quickly as possible and not to descend further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u99	Mr Vandenbroucke, I would like to make it clear that it is only about 2018 and the past. Let us be clear. What the FOD has done here is to make sure it is not the couriers who are punished. That's what the FOD did in the end. If I understand Mr Van Hees correctly, he says that the measure needs to be implemented and that I am going to take on the thousands of couriers who work for the company and often like to work for it, which we should also not forget to tax by addressing them on what they deserve. On this point, the administration has decided that there has been some ambiguity and that it will not allow that to happen. The administration has decided to regularise the situation for 2018 in order to avoid tackling stakeholders hard. By 2019, however, things must be in order. Has the administration asked for reasonableness in this respect? In my opinion, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u100	Mr Minister, you are saying that I am defending the position that all couriers who have "been" this system must be taxed. That's not what I said. In fact, I was asking if you could guarantee that the revenues reported for 2018 under the collaborative economy would not be requalified at a later time. I just cared about the fact that these couriers are not taxed. What I question is the fact that Deliveroo applies the policy of fait accompli and that you and the FPS Finances are submitting to it. That is how I hear the answer that you give us in the form of flexibility to give to Deliveroo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u101	Madam President, Minister, this is a somewhat technical question. On the basis of Article 8 of the Ministerial Decree of 17 December 1998, notaries were exempted from the obligation to keep a separate tax diary if they keep notarial accounts. According to the rules adopted by the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003, they are now required to keep double accounts. The rules of 21 May 2015 relating to the keeping and supervision of the quality accounts were amended by the General Meeting of the bailiffs on 7 December 2016. The bailiffs should also keep double accounts from the financial year 2018. In that context, I have the following questions. Does the obligation to keep double accounts by the bailiffs also mean that these double accounts, as is the case with the notaries, are also considered to constitute the tax diary referred to in Article 320 of the Income Tax Code 1992? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u102	Madam President, the obligation to keep double accounts for bailiffs does not automatically result in these accounts being considered to be also the tax diary as referred to in the Income Tax Code. Notaries are exempt from keeping such a diary on the basis of a ministerial decision of 17 December 1998 which explicitly states that their notarial accounts prescribed by the relevant legal and regulatory texts constitute the diary prescribed in the Income Tax Code. That ministerial decision does not contain any provision on accounting documents to be kept by the bailiffs. The bailiffs therefore remain obliged to keep a diary as required by the Income Tax Code. I agree that we should examine this at some point. This is not the only professional category facing it either. I believe that this point can rightly be included in a future government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u103	It is true, Minister, that the legal profession is also faced with this problem. Perhaps we should not wait until the next government and I can take the initiative myself through a legislative proposal. So we'll see. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u104	Mr Minister, following the reports of the Monitoring Committee, we have already discussed the procedure for estimating tax revenues. In a normal political situation, FPS Finance draws up estimates of the expected tax revenue for the following year in June each year. These are, of course, estimates, not precise predictions. In September, the initial budget will be drawn up by the government, which will then be approved by Parliament before the end of the year, during December. In February, the FPS Finance also reviewed the tax receipts for the current year. These estimates form the basis for any adjustment of revenue, the resource budget, during budgetary control. Sometimes there is discussion about these estimates. Remember 29 September 2016, when then Minister of Finance Van Overtveldt said: "J'en ai marre." He was tired of the persistent criticism, claiming that the wrong estimates were his fault. He claimed that tax revenues were systematically overrated and he seemed to blame the administration. However, he instructed the administration to carry out a thorough analysis of the method of estimating revenue. Implicitly his message was that not his arithmetic was wrong, but the method used to estimate income. According to the minister at the time, the blame was on the administration, not politics. Quod nun. To find out exactly where the error was, the FPS Finance ordered a study at KU Leuven. An analysis was made of no less than 3 decades of budget work, from 1990 to 2017 entitled An Evaluation of the Methods to Forecast Tax Revenues. This showed that during that period the revenue estimate was on average 1.55 % wrong. According to an international comparison, 1.55 % is a good figure. The deviation is mainly due to the assessment of macroeconomic developments and the expected impact of new government policies. The macroeconomic evolution is initially estimated by the Planning Bureau. The impact of the new government policy is usually estimated by the government, not by the administration. I suppose they usually get help from the administration for certain stings. Some amounts are, however, often rounded up smoothly during the last budgetary conclave. The study therefore rightly concluded that the method of prediction was qualitatively good. The residual term, the methodological term that the researchers interpret in the report as the error that follows from the method itself, is rather limited, understands very small. In addition to the correct analysis of FPS Finance's estimation method, the study also proposed a number of improvements, for example in the transparency of policy impact estimations, where improvements are possible, and the provision of documentation outside the disaggregated method, which was also a recommendation once made by the Court of Auditors. I therefore have two questions for you, Minister. Firstly, what conclusions do you draw from the study by the KU Leuven on the method of estimation? My next question is a political question. Do you recognise that former Minister Van Overtveldt acted wrongly by accusing the administration of false estimates? His "j'en ai marre" was apparently meant for him rather than the administration. Secondly, the most important question for the future: what action will you take so that the budget could be made more precise than before? Will you investigate the solutions provided and, even better, allow them to be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u105	Madam President, Mr Bertels, the KU Leuven study shows that the deviations in the budget estimates are mainly due to the estimates of macroeconomic parameters and to the estimates of the impact of fiscal measures. The criticism of the administration therefore seemed largely unfounded. Another explanation for the different results is that the measures have not always been implemented in the way they have been calculated. Of course, that has the greatest impact. When measures are decided, but then, in a second reading or during a parliamentary discussion, other conditions in terms of application and implementation, it is normal that the figures differ. As you have just pointed out, the FPS Finance estimates are relatively good in an international context. They are better than in the Netherlands, for example. In its study, KU Leuven formulates a series of proposals to improve estimates. The FPS Finance Study Service will analyse the proposals and implement the most efficient as far as possible. The study has also been published and is open to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u106	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that you admit that the criticism of the administration was unfounded. You used that word. That's also correct. We have to appreciate the work of the people within the administration at the FPS Finances making few estimates.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's still an estimate. It's not an exact prediction. You can't. It is also not a prediction that is exactly true. It's still a matter of estimates. If I have understood your last sentence correctly, you will nevertheless ask the administration to look at the recommendations in the study and try to integrate them into their estimation methods so that those methods can become even better. That is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u107	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Loones's 55001025 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u108	Madam President, at the beginning of the sitting I heard that the Minister guarantees that a written question will be answered within three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u109	Madam President, for the sake of correction, I have just heard someone here next to me saying that the time limit is four weeks. Moreover, I did not "guarantee" that term. I said that at the moment the lead time is four weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u110	Minister, perhaps we should be a little more selective in our oral questions. I will put this question orally, because I am very interested in the information requested. Minister, this question concerns the assets of taxpayers abroad. A few weeks ago, information on the CRS and the assets of taxpayers abroad was published in the press on the basis of data that you had provided to colleagues. I would have liked to have received some additional data for 2017 and 2018 respectively. How many countries have Belgium received information in this context? How much information has the administration received? Can you also provide that information by partner country? How many Belgian taxpayers are covered by this information? What total amount are we talking about? On the basis of the data received, can you estimate the scale distribution, in particular the income groups of assets held abroad by Belgian taxpayers? Are this information charged in MyMinfin? In other words, can each taxable person easily determine what information the FPS Finance has from foreign tax administrations? Are this information still visible to the tax inspector, like any other information available in MyMinfin, or are they covered by banking secrecy and can they therefore only be used within the contours of Article 322 of the Income Tax Code? Is there a specific control action on foreign income and a follow-up to the first automatic exchange of information under the CRS? If so, can you explain that? If such a control action is already in progress, are there any preliminary results? In the context of the CRS, Belgium, of course, also provides information to other countries on the basis of the information provided to the FPS Finance by the Belgian financial institutions. How much information has Belgium provided to partner countries? How many people are we talking about? What total amount are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u111	In 2017, Belgium exchanged information with 45 countries under the Common Reporting Standards. In 2018 there were 86 and at the end of 2019 there are 91.For the 2016 income year, a total of 636.844 valid information was received from abroad. For the 2017 revenue year, there were 1,385.124. Processing is still ongoing for the 2018 income year. Figures on the exchange of information with reference to specific countries are confidential and should not be communicated publicly. This is so stipulated in international law and agreed in the international working group. The information shall be stored on an account number. If there are several account holders resident in Belgium, this information is passed on several times. Therefore, the number of information does not correspond to the unique number of account numbers or to the number of Belgian taxpayers. The total amount of all account balances of the information obtained per year of income includes double counting, so that certain balances with multiple account holders are transferred several times. For the 2016 revenue year, this total amounted to around 90.9 billion euros and for the 2017 revenue year about 173.8 billion euros. Processing is still ongoing for the 2018 revenue year. Statistical data to estimate the deciel distribution of Belgian taxpayers' assets held abroad are not available. The intention is that each taxable person should be able to consult MyMinfin on the information provided by a foreign administration relating to him or her. The information exchanged in the framework of the CRS shall not be subject to tax banking secrecy. The exchange of CRS data is just possible thanks to the removal of banking secrecy regarding income taxes in cross-border situations. The information is therefore visible to the competent inspection services. The administration may, of course, further examine the CRS data received, but must take into account its investigative powers, which are laid down in the Income Tax Code. The Administration Private Individuals of the General Administration of Taxation launched a control action against taxable persons for which there was a CRS sheet of foreign movable income and whose movable income may not have been declared. The files to be checked were selected on the basis of a comparison of the movable income shown in the personal income tax declaration and the information obtained by the international exchange of information on the financial accounts. At the level of the Administration Small and Medium-sized Enterprises of the General Administration of Fiscality, several control actions have been launched from 2019 onwards and possible actions are being studied. The Administration of Large Enterprises of the General Administration of Fiscality carried out a audit in 2019 in relation to some Belgian financial institutions concerning the submission of the CRS and/or FATCA declarations in the framework of the international exchange of financial data between competent authorities. It will repeat this control action in 2020. This action will verify that the statutory reporting obligations and due diligence procedures have been correctly complied with. The ongoing action by the Private Administration refers to the exchange of information received for the year 2016, but the controls and regularisations relate to the years 2016 and 2017. The audit action consists of 679 contracts, 555 of which are currently closed for a total increase in the taxable base of EUR 21.7 million, resulting in a tax supplement of EUR 7.4 million. At the level of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Administration, conclusions from the results of the pilot actions launched during the year can only be drawn at the beginning of 2020. Control actions in relation to some Belgian financial institutions are still ongoing. So there are no results yet. In 2017, Belgium provided 581,442 foreign intelligence in the framework of the CRS; in 2018, it provided 1,616,804 intelligence. Data on the number of persons and the total amount indicated in that information are not available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u112	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, in high-speed rail transport. It would be useful to receive the specific information in writing. It is clear that the CRS offers positive results. The number of data exchanged has increased dramatically. I believe that it is a good thing that control actions are being launched. Unfortunately, there are no results yet. That is why I will question you as soon as results are available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u113	Chairperson: Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u114	Mr Minister, I would like to come back to you with regard to the reimbursement of Belgian excise duties on petrol in our country. In my first speech on this issue in early 2019, you mentioned, among other things, the preparation of a bill to automate the repayments in question. At the time, the project was for advice in the hands of ODA. While the answer gave hope for improvements, I note that delays continue to accumulate. According to recent information, it appears that foreign companies are even waiting more than a year before they are reimbursed. For some of them, the amounts expected amount to almost EUR 1 million. Many of them want to assert their rights. This is a very embarrassing situation. Minister, what is the status of the bill in preparation? Will we be able to deal with it in our committee? We are prepared to do so. Has the additional staff engagement in the Professional Diesel Reimbursement Section had the desired effects? You argued that you had to recruit staff to be able to reduce the delay in paying Belgian excise duties to foreign companies. How can the lack of reimbursement be addressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u115	The bill to which you refer has been initiated by the former Minister of Finance and finalized by my services. This case is now closed administratively. As the sector is divided on the issue and the government is in day-to-day business, the decision is left to the next government, which will have full powers to finalize the matter. Since the beginning of 2019, 23 people have been recruited under the Rosetta status. To date, 10,000 cases have already been processed more than in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u116	Minister, thank you. I want to hear everyone disagrees. But at one point, we started a project. I agree with you when you say that it is better to have a full-fledged government to address this type of problem. As I understand it, a very large backlog has already been dealt with. So there would be only the 2019 files to rework?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u117	We'd have to investigate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u118	That would be important. I stress once again the need to be able to meet our obligations. The credibility of our country and the good economic health of foreign companies, of course, dependent on the good will of the Belgian State, as well as on all those who transport and work in Belgian companies, are at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u119	Mr Minister, my question has already been largely answered this morning, but I will ask them anyway. At the moment, Brussels and the British are trying to make a deal, more than three years after the Brexirefendum. October 31st is the latest Rubicon date: either there will be an agreement, or there will be a no-dealbrexit, or there will be another delay. We'll see. For more than three years, our country was able to prepare for any possible scenario and launch a digital transformation. It is clear what the benefits of digitisation, data sharing and automated IT solutions are. Minister, I have a few questions about this. Have you used the Brexit situation to digitize the system? What concrete steps has customs already taken? What budget are we talking about? What further steps will be taken to obtain a performance customs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u120	Colleagues, a very small remark. We had a whole subject this morning with an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u121	I have also started my question with this point, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u122	We have indeed had a whole meeting on this matter this morning, which has been very detailed, but I would nevertheless like to answer your question. The General Administration of Customs and Excise chooses decisively to implement technological solutions in its quest for a 100 % digital service. The General Administration sees this as an essential tool for a modern, customer-friendly and efficient organisation, regardless of developments in Brexit. The expected significant increase in the workload resulting from the Brexit was definitely an additional incentive to further accelerate that process. So we have taken advantage of this moment to speed up a number of projects and thus turn the need into a virtue. Although the General Administration has already been digitised to a significant extent, further steps have been taken in the meantime, including the automation of the process of departing goods and the realization of the electronic vignette E705 to bring vehicles in. As regards the budgets, an additional accelerated roll-out was part of the investment appropriations provided for in the Brexit Act of 18 January 2019. Finally, taking into account the expected significant increase in the number of declarations, the application of PLDA is systematically strengthened so that the General Administration can ensure the performance and continuity of the application.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u123	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u124	Madam Chair, this morning the minister made a commitment to respond quickly. I see he's keeping his promises. We'll be able to check this right away with my question. Minister, at the end of the last Parliament, my group tabled and passed a bill to introduce a reduced rate of 6% VAT on the purchase of a bicycle or electric bicycle. Indeed, the practice of a sport on a daily basis has demonstrated its many health benefits. In addition, cycling contributes to urban decongestion as it results in a decrease in car use, with positive environmental impacts. For all these reasons, my group wanted to encourage the use of bicycles by reducing the bill for users by 15%. However, since VAT is a European prerogative, we have conditioned the entry into force of our text upon obtaining either a derogation or a general amendment to Annex III of the VAT Directive which deals with exceptions to the normal VAT rate. At the plenary session of April 4, 2019, which approved this bill, Parliament instructed the government to negotiate with Europe. We know that a fundamental overhaul of VAT is being considered. However, minister, could you tell us if you have taken any initiatives to obtain an exemption in order to reduce VAT to 6% for the purchase of a bicycle? Has Belgium made an official request within the Council of the European Union and to the Commission to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u125	Madam President, the European Commission wishes to reform in depth the existing provisions on reduced VAT rates. On the basis of the text of its proposal, Member States could, with a few exceptions, independently apply a reduced VAT rate for the supply of goods and services which they would determine. The current proposal would thus allow Member States to apply a reduced VAT rate to the delivery, rental, maintenance and repair of bicycles. Since the publication of the European Commission's proposal on VAT rate reform, it has been presented in detail by the European Commission services in a competent technical working group of the Council. The proposal was briefly discussed during the Bulgarian and Romanian Presidencies. These discussions will in principle continue under the Finnish Presidency. So far, the question of the VAT rate for electric bicycles has not yet been addressed as such, but it appears that the issue of soft mobility is one of the policy objectives to which the European Commission services are sensitive. I will address the issue of electric bicycles in the context of the ongoing discussions on the European Commission's proposal. However, the debate on the substance of this proposal is only at an early stage and it is difficult to estimate the time frame within which the proposal could be adopted, particularly if the final compromise allows for a reduced VAT rate for bicycles and electric bicycles. Indeed, a proposal from the European Commission on VAT can only be adopted by unanimous vote of the Member States. The initial discussions showed that differences of opinion on the principle included in the proposal were important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u126	Mr President, I hear a number of relatively promising elements, but I also encourage you to take initiatives at European level on this subject. I believe that the context is mature and the population is asking for such measures. We must therefore take the bull by the horns and bring the debate to the European level in order to obtain the necessary derogations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u127	Chairperson: Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u128	Mr Minister, the primary objective of the College for Combating Tax and Social Fraud is to coordinate the various actors in order to achieve more results in the fight against both tax and social fraud. Indeed, the fight against fraud requires a large number of skills and it is essential that the exchange of information be optimal. This tool brings together the Ministers of Finance, Justice, Employment and Social Affairs, as well as members of the judiciary and administrations. Under the previous government, the College met monthly to develop and evaluate joint action plans with interesting results. We know that, under your predecessor, Mr. Van Overtveldt, this effective coordination tool was almost completely stopped. Minister, has this College met since you took office? If so, how often? If not, can you explain the reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u129	Mr.Ben Achour, during the period 2015-2018, the Interdepartmental Conference was only held three times. The need for a new Conference during current business will be discussed. However, you can be reassured because, even in the absence of a meeting of the College, the heads of the various departments concerned have many operational contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u130	Minister, contrary to your previous answer, the one you have just given is not encouraging. It is a truly necessary tool, which is called for in particular by the actors in the civil service and the judiciary. This shutdown, this sleepdown, this putting in the fridge is quite symptomatic of the policy that was carried out by the previous government which was a policy that aimed to put the lid on the issues of tax evasion. This was the signal of a political choice that the Socialist Party strongly contests. We therefore hope that with the next government, this type of tool can be reactivated in full effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u131	Minister, we have just talked about the Flemish housing bonus being abolished. The result is that people can still enjoy tax advantages for a second home, but not for the first home. It's become a very complicated system. Since 2016 one can borrow for a first home and for a second home and at the same time use the Flemish integrated housing bonus and the federal tax reduction, as there are now two separate tax baskets that can be filled both. That's a double advantage. You have just explained that several products can be put into that federal basket for long-term savings. It is about that that my questions are about, also following the Flemish government's decision to extinguish the Flemish housing bonus from 1 January 2020. First, what is the tax expenditure for long-term savings for each of the years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018? Secondly, what is the breakdown of the above-mentioned tax expenditure on capital repayments and life insurance premiums? Thirdly, by extinguishing the Flemish housing bonus, will there be more room in the federal basket for the third pillar? Will this entail an increased federal tax expenditure and can you make an assessment of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u132	Mr Vandenbroucke, the tax expenditure on federal tax cuts for long-term savings related to Flemish taxpayers amounts to EUR 170.521.338 for the tax year 2018, income 2017. Data for the 2019 tax year, revenue 2018, are not yet available, as the collection process for this tax year is still running until 30 June 2020. The current data are not representative. Tax expenditure on capital repayments amounts to EUR 50,165.039 for the tax year 2018. As far as life insurance premiums are concerned, the tax expenditure is EUR 120,356,298 for the tax year 2018. The abolition of the integrated housing bonus in itself has no impact on the federal basket long-term savings. Indeed, the time limits attached to loans concluded from 1 January 2016 and eligible for the integrated housing bonus are not deducted in order to determine the level of those federal baskets. In the meantime, we have provided you with the detailed table.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u133	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for these very interesting figures, in particular the figure you have given in reply to my second question concerning the relationship between tax expenditure on capital repayments and life insurance premiums. There are twice as much expenditure on life insurance premiums as on capital repayments. Following on from what you said earlier: if this tax basket is to be changed as a result of what Flanders decides, we must make sure that we do not delete a number of things that we do not want them to disappear as an option for the people to save for their old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u134	Minister, while waiting for Mr Verherstraeten, I am already beginning to ask you my question from my bench.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u135	Mr Van Hees, it is up to you to decide where you settle. If you wish, I can perhaps ask my colleague, who tends to become a little red, to take up the presidency. That fits well with your political color!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u136	Minister, by its judgment of 17 October 2018, the Constitutional Court annulled the tax on securities accounts introduced by your government through the law of 7 February 2018. This decision is not really surprising: the PTB had pointed out from the outset that this tax had nothing to do with tax justice and was not aimed at the greatest fortunes. It was a discriminatory tax and a purely symbolic "bidon" tax. The discriminatory aspect of the tax arises, inter alia, from the fact that, according to the Constitutional Court, "nominative shares, not registered in a security account, are exempt from the tax". However, it is known that the largest fortunes hold their assets through nominal shares. Among them, the Ackermans-Bertrand family, including a representative, administrator of the holding company Ackermans & van Haaren, negotiated the tax as chief of staff of the Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders. As for the symbolic aspect of this "bidon" tax, it becomes a common practice in this country. Your government had already introduced the speculation tax, which was abolished one year after its adoption. It also removed the tiny 0.412 per cent tax that the previous government had introduced on capital gains on corporate shares. These taxes were introduced each time to give a symbolic counterweight to austerity and the real property tax increases borne by the people. A recent editorial by La Libre Belgique indicates that you yourself, Minister, did not believe in the tax on securities accounts in 2017: "Alexander De Croo (Open Vld), with his lips, acknowledged (...) that the symbolism of this tax should not be overestimated." Minister, why did you support a tax you didn't believe in at the time? Perhaps to please my CD&V colleague? In 2000, there was only one billionaire family in Belgium. Today, there are 28, a total of almost 100 billion euros worth of assets. Do you not find that this heritage must be taxed? Finally, do you not consider that Deputy Prime Minister Reynders' Chief of Staff was in a clear conflict of interest in negotiating the securities tax in 2017? I am not going back to the President's place to give the floor to my colleague, Servais Verherstraeten. I give him the word from my bench.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u137	Mr Minister, once again there is a judgment, this time by the Constitutional Court, which, of course, was no total surprise in the light of the opinion of the Council of State at the time of the discussions. When going through the judgment diagonally, I learn the following. Firstly, the fact that the law does not apply to all financial instruments registered in a securities account may constitute discrimination. The Council of State also pointed out that it was only applied to financial instruments registered in a securities account and thus not to registered securities. Secondly, it concerns the presumption that the share in the securities account is proportional to the number of debt holders and there is no obligation to report the actual share. So it was really sensitive. Nevertheless, the judgment is important because, in its statement of reasons, it states the objective which the legislator and the then government, or the current government in a modified composition, had in mind. Minister, you are part of a government in current affairs. With tax legislation we should not improvise. However, we can think about it and prepare the dossier. Can repair legislation be prepared with or without compensatory regulation if it has upward or negative budgetary effects? Are you prepared to consider and work out alternatives to comply with the judgment? Can you estimate the budgetary impact of the 2019 judgment and of the budgets from 2020 onwards? I believe that the budgetary revenue was roughly in line with the estimates made at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u138	Notwithstanding the fact that the tax on the securities accounts in the income declaration for the year 2018 can also be declared, the tax on the securities accounts in its current form has generated almost 240 to 245 million euro revenue for the reference period 2017-2018. It can be expected that this will also be the case for the period 2018-2019, which runs from 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019. My administration is currently in charge of analysing the judgment which dates only from October 17, 2019. In the light of this analysis, possible approaches will be assessed. As far as the budgetary impact is concerned, the analyses are, of course, still in full swing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u139	On the basis of the fact that, on the one hand, the objectives are legitimate and, on the other hand, the basic foundation of the scheme is maintained and, on the other hand, there is indeed discrimination, I would ask you specifically to work out, within your powers and taking into account the regime of current cases, ways of responding to the judgment. The choices to be made are not budgetaryly neutral. They will include de facto either tax increases or tax reductions. However, simulations need to be made to respond to this, because doing nothing also means an additional budgetary effort of EUR 250 million per year. I am open to you to look for comparative pistes in the exercise that you entrust to the administration. I do not need to remind you that at the time, after some democratic debate in the majority, we worked out a compromise and that this legislation was not independent of the exemption on dividends. For me, that remains an honorable compromise, and if something has to be adapted to one, we can also adapt something to the other in such a way that the scheme is budget-neutral. Another way of responding to the judgment is for you to look at the burden on labour in order to increase the level of activity. These slopes seem to me to remedy all the objections raised in the judgment and are budget neutral. Again, ask your administration to work out proposals that can be delivered to all parties and at least to the reformers and hopefully later reformers, in order to continue working on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u140	Mr.Minister, your predecessor had announced that it was known that this tax would be cancelled when, as Minister of Finance, he was supposed to carry this tax on securities accounts. One might say that it is the CD&V that is the turkey of the farce since it was claimed that this tax had been established by the then Prime Minister for the CD&V. But I think that the real turkey is the population that has had to suffer austerity, tax increases, VAT, excises for billions of euros. For symbolism, this tax on securities accounts was created. It had been claimed that it would earn 240 million but it is nothing in relation to the fortune that is possessed. The 28 billionaire families in Belgium hold 100 billion euros. What, then, is 240 million? The real alternative to austerity is not a "bidon" tax like this tax on securities accounts or other taxes that I mentioned earlier, it is a real tax of the millionaires that affects the entire wealth and not only the funds that are on the securities accounts. We know that the greatest fortunes are not on these accounts. That is what the Constitutional Court says. I'm calling for a tax, but I know you don't share the idea of making the richest people pay. You'd rather make the population pay!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic037x.u141	Minister, thank you for being here so far. This session is closed.
