ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Bellens' 27595 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u2	Mr President, Minister, I tabled this question a while ago, but it seems that no committee meeting with oral questions has taken place since then. It has become known, Minister, that you are abandoning the new cooperation agreement with Tanzania because of the homophobic attitude of the country. In a response, you indicated that the deteriorating human rights situation of homosexuals, pregnant girls and young mothers has prevented further preparations for the new cooperation programme. Previously, the World Bank, providing loans to developing countries, cancelled a loan of EUR 265 million to Tanzania and Denmark also decided to cancel a grant of EUR 9 million. The European Union decided to recall its ambassador on the ground. Tanzania has been a partner country in Belgian development cooperation for a very long time, since 1982. We have already spent a great deal of money on that country, which is a good thing in itself. A new cooperation agreement was prepared for the period 2018 to 2021, which is now being suspended. What does the suspension of the preparation of a new cooperation programme mean? How do you estimate the chances of creating a new cooperation agreement after the suspension? How do you estimate the short and long-term consequences of the lack of a cooperation agreement on development aid to the country? How can it be ensured, in a difficult context, that the population continues to receive the necessary aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u3	Mr President, Mrs van Hoof, the suspension of the preparation of a new government cooperation programme with Tanzania means, in concrete terms, that I will no longer send an instruction letter to Enabel during this legislature asking for a strategy for cooperation to be drawn up. The Belgian embassy will, of course, continue to monitor and analyse the situation in Tanzania in cooperation with the competent departments in the administration. However, on the basis of developments in Tanzania, it will be my successor to decide on the opportunity and content of a new cooperation programme with that country. However, this does not mean that all aid from Belgium to Tanzania is stopped immediately. Of the previous government cooperation programmes, four projects are currently in progress. Its implementation has not been suspended. Enabel will continue to implement these projects. The last of these projects will not end until 2023. The programmes and projects carried out by non-governmental actors and universities continue to continue, mostly until 2021, under the 2017-2021 programme cycle. Nor does the suspension affect the humanitarian aid or the ongoing programme of the Belgian Food Security Fund. In order to bridge the period to a possible future cooperation programme, the possibility of extending or extending some of the ongoing government projects is still under consideration. The political evolution in Tanzania is extremely worrying. More and more donors and investors are failing. TradeMark East Africa, founded by the UK Department for International Development and supported, among other things, by Belgian development policy, has recently decided to stop its activities in Tanzania. TradeMark East Africa is active in removing trade barriers between African countries. Political will is central to development. It is not the Belgian development policy that will ensure socio-economic development in Tanzania. Only the Tanzanian government and the population can ensure this. We can support government policy through our initiative, but that only makes sense if the government itself conducts a policy of development with good governance and respect for human rights and democratic freedoms. However, this is no longer the case in Tanzania.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is logical, in the context of the policy you have pursued, that development cooperation should be suspended. The only point is that the resources provided for this development cooperation must now be used in a different way. More and more countries are becoming fragile, and we had not seen it coming from Tanzania. This means that we are no longer able to spend the resources in those countries. The challenge for the next government is to put the policy on track and to find an answer to the question of how to deal with countries that find themselves in difficult circumstances in terms of human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u5	Mr President, Minister, on 27 November the European Union adopted a package of EUR 56.5 million to promote the creation of sustainable jobs and to strengthen the assistance provided to refugees, internally displaced populations and their host communities in Iraq. This brings the total amount of EU development aid mobilized for Iraq last year to EUR 129 million and is one of the EUR 400 million pledged by the European Union at the conference on the reconstruction of Iraq held in Kuwait in February 2018. The programme adopted at the end of November 2018 will help return displaced populations, vulnerable youth and women find income opportunities and access services to meet their basic needs. These measures announced by Neven Mimica, Commissioner for International Cooperation and Development, complement the €72.5 million package adopted last October. Minister, what is the Belgian contribution to this reconstruction programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u6	Belgium contributes to the budget of the European Union, through which Iraq's reconstruction actions are financed. For example, the European Commission has recently submitted to the Member States meeting within the Development Cooperation Instruments Committee the interventions to which you refer and officially announced by Commissioner Mimica on 27 November for an amount of EUR 56.5 million. Firstly, promotion of socio-economic development in Iraq, job creation and income generation, for €41.5 million, which will be implemented by UNESCO and FAO, particularly in the cities of Bassora, Mosul and the outskirts of Nineveh; secondly, a contribution to the trust fund for the Syrian crisis, for €15 million. The Madad Fund funds programs that support basic education, child protection, training, higher education, improved access to health care, improved water supply and wastewater management infrastructure, and support for resilience, economic opportunities and social inclusion. The draft had received a positive opinion from all Member States on 24 October 2018. In addition, since December 2017, Belgium has contributed €6 million to the Madad Fund, which currently funds more than ten projects in Iraq aimed at improving the resilience of Syrian refugees. Belgium is planning €7.6 million in humanitarian aid for Iraq. This amount includes funding for the NGO Handicap International Belgium. It should be noted that few Belgian humanitarian NGOs work directly in the country. Their presence is therefore limited. The beneficiaries of humanitarian assistance are also former conflict displaced persons who have now returned home, persons who have remained and still live in disaster-stricken areas, or persons living in internally displaced persons camps in the country. Three million euros will go to the humanitarian fund 'country'. It is a flexible fund managed from the field by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in Chad (OCHA), ensuring timely funding and support to organizations best placed to respond to identified needs. As for Enabel, so far she is not involved in reconstruction. The projects my department is supporting in Iraq are currently only humanitarian projects. Finally, regarding the European Union's presence in Iraq, I carried out a mission with the European Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management. A DG ECHO office is present in Iraq to monitor many problems supported by the European Union. In 2019, the European Commission announced an initial commitment of €30 million for humanitarian funding, bringing the total amount of its humanitarian aid in 2018 and 2019 to €70 million. The mission I carried out was a high-level mission showing the support of Belgium and the European Union for the Iraqi people and the government in this reconstruction phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this issue is extremely important. In Brussels, an appropriate conference was held on the reconstruction of Syria. More than €7 billion has been made available by the various donor countries. But it is clear that if aid for the reconstruction of Iraq is not large enough, the same causes are likely to produce the same effects. We will then again have jihadism ferments that will be re-established in Iraq, as in other countries, such as Afghanistan, Iran or Syria. I think "it's also about our selfish interest," as your dad says about helping Africa. It is essential that this government and the government that will follow it - in which I hope you will have important responsibilities - be able to pursue determined and proactive actions towards the reconstruction of Iraq and the pacification between the various communities. I am thinking in particular of the Kurds and the Yezidis, and of course also of the Christian communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u8	Mr De Vriendt apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u9	Minister, during the debate on the cooperation budget last December, you announced budget cuts in Enabel's awareness-raising programmes, particularly in the "Annunciation of colour" programme. So, can you give me an account of the situation? How much euros has the budget actually been planed at this stage? Have there been any redundancies? Has the program been renewed and how?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u10	Mrs Grovonius, for the period 2019-2024 there was indeed a new program Color Confess.Annoncer la Couleur planned. That programme is still receiving my attention, because it plays an important role in the theme of world citizenship education. Last summer, I asked my administration – DGD – and Enabel to develop a proposal for a new program for the period 2019-2023, which I received on December 20th. However, since the government has been in day-to-day business since then, it is impossible for it to approve a program of this magnitude and to commit a budget for five years. I therefore decided to submit to the Council of Ministers a one-year extension of the current programme, with a budget of EUR 1.5 million. The current programme is also of a five-year nature and ends this year. It will be up to the next government to decide on a new multiannual programme. I asked DGD and Enabel to submit his proposal for an extension well in time so that it could be approved by the Council of Ministers before the likely dissolution of Parliament in April - or later, it is not known! In my view, this is the only way to ensure the continuity of the programme. To date, I have not received a proposal. The current programme 2014-2019 has been extensively evaluated. The evaluation showed that the provinces in the programme were a weak link. Enabel and the DGD therefore proposed not to involve the provinces in the new programme, as it is important to choose the most relevant and efficient partners for the programme. Moreover, why should programmes be evaluated if the conclusions and recommendations are not taken into account? Finally, it may be questioned whether world citizenship education is one of the key tasks of the provinces and whether it should receive subsidies from the federal government. Asking the question is, in my view, answering them. I hear I made a mistake in the fourth paragraph. I'll read it again to correct my point. I have decided to submit to the Council of Ministers a one-year extension of the current programme, with a budget of EUR 1.5 million. The current program is also five-year and ends this summer - not this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaux's 28385 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u12	Mr. Chairman, Minister, a framework agreement between Defence and Enabel has recently been signed. If such an agreement seems to me to be a very good initiative within the limits of a comprehensive approach, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions: within what framework has this agreement been signed and what are the practical implications? Can you tell us the strength lines of this framework agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you rightly mention in your question, the recently signed cooperation agreement between Enabel and Defence forms part of the Belgian strategy on the global approach, which aims at greater coherence and complementarity between the various instruments and means of Belgian foreign policy. The global approach requires breaking with a silo operation of the various instruments of our foreign policy. As a Belgian state development agency, Enabel is part of a global approach. In fact, as part of its new mandate, Enabel places more emphasis than before on the exploitation and mobilisation of Belgian public and private expertise in the context of its international cooperation interventions. It is in this context that Enabel has concluded a number of agreements with the Belgian public institutions, with the aim of valuing this expertise and know-how in our international cooperation activities. For example, this is the case in areas such as Justice, Customs, Water and Sanitation, and Health. The agreement between Enabel and Defence is part of the importance of the link between security and development, specifically in the Sahel countries. Indeed, several of our partner countries in this region are particularly unstable, and Defence is implementing cooperation activities there. While our activities have in the past been carried out in parallel, they are mutually reinforcing and complementary. Enabel is already working with Defence in the framework of the cooperation programme with Benin to secure access to the port of Cotonou by sea. Defence and Enabel are also collaborating in Maradi, Niger, where Defence supports a Nigerian battalion in rapid response and Enabel will support the construction of a health centre for the benefit of the population and the military. Further collaborations are envisaged in Burkina Faso and Tunisia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u14	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr Dallemagne (Commission); Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the epidemic of the Ebola virus disease that has been raging since last August in two provinces (North Kivu and lturi) of the Democratic Republic of the Congo had resulted in 443 deaths at the end of January 2019, according to the latest count of the Congolese health authorities at the time. Furthermore, knowing that the areas of Beni and lturi are regularly targeted by attacks by local and foreign armed groups, Minister, what are the budget and actions undertaken by your department to support these populations in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u16	The Ebola crisis has flared up again in North Kivu since August last year. A lot of people have been infected and died. The virus continues to spread. In North Kivu, the security situation is also precarious and violence has already led 4.5 million people to flee. This creates a difficult context for vaccination campaigns and humanitarian aid. Several physical attacks against emergency workers have also been reported. Minister, what initiatives have you already taken and what are you planning to take to support Congo in the medium and long term in dealing with the Ebola crisis? Should the crisis be addressed bilaterally, at EU level or at UN level? What impact does the political context and security context have on humanitarian aid in the region? How can our country ensure that aid is not compromised?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u17	Mr President, in the DRC, Belgium finances the Red Cross movement and the DRC Humanitarian Fund, which is managed by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). These partners and instruments autonomously decide, on the basis of objective humanitarian criteria, the extent to which they support or implement interventions to respond to the Ebola epidemic. Belgium's financial contribution to the Ebola crisis is as follows. First, Belgium allocates an annual contribution of €600,000 to the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF) of the International Federation of the Red Cross. The Fund has allocated 35,000 Swiss francs from the Belgian contribution to the South Sudanese Red Cross in preparation for a possible Ebola outbreak. Secondly, the same Disaster Relief Emergency Fund has also funded two Ebola preparedness actions in Burundi and Rwanda with the Belgian contribution. An amount of 26,000 Swiss francs had been allocated to the Burundi Red Cross, and 28,000 Swiss francs had been allocated to the Rwandan Red Cross. Thirdly, Belgium supports the thematic global humanitarian funds as well as the DRC Humanitarian Fund. In addition, it contributes to the general resources of its partner organizations. Through these funds, Belgian contributions are used in a fast, efficient, flexible and results-oriented manner to meet the most urgent needs. Some of these flexible funds fund projects in response to the Ebola crisis. For example, it is the Central Emergency Response Fund, which is managed by OCHA and to which Belgium contributed EUR 12.5 million in 2018. The government of the Democratic Republic of Congo is experienced in dealing with an Ebola outbreak and therefore knows what is needed to contain an outbreak. The response to the crisis can, and must, therefore come from the Congolese authorities themselves. Why is the crisis, the biggest and most deadly Ebola outbreak in the country's history, still not under control? As you yourself say, there is a great challenge in the unsafe context and widespread distrust in Eastern Congo. An effective response to the outbreak is highly subject to these factors. Some areas are very difficult to reach due to the presence of armed groups. The local population is also suspicious of the intentions of the aid workers. However, awareness-raising programmes are beginning to bear fruit in this respect. An additional risk is the potential regional dimension of a further outbreak. Neighboring countries such as South Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Tanzania fear that the virus may sneak into their country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, and since that was his last reply, I would also like to thank him for all the answers he has given in the past legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u19	I assume, Minister, that all the other members of the committee are in favour of these words of thanks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u20	I thank each of you for the many questions. The Members who are present today were mostly present to ask their question, and that cannot be said of everyone. Thank you for the many very interesting discussions we have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1063x.u21	Thank you, Minister. We will also pass on your wishes to the absent colleagues.
