ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u1	Minister, as from 1 March there will be a new system for the distribution of mail in Belgium. I understand that all rounds are divided into zones, where the priors are distributed daily and the non-prioritys on certain days. The result will be that non-priority shipments will be distributed twice a week. That is quite an adjustment for our post, especially for the postmen, but also for the people who are used to seeing the postman pass very often. Especially in rural areas, this will have an impact. What impact will the new distribution model have on customers? The non-priority shipments will only be carried around twice a week. For the sake of clarity, the sp.a Group considers it logical that solutions should be sought, given the decreasing volume of letters. Will the new system be able to guarantee that the prior consignments, such as death letters and mourning shipments, will be effective on time on the bus? Soon I will have another question about this, because there were a number of problems with that. What will be the impact for the staff? There is a great deal of concern with the postmen in particular. They are a little concerned that the routes would expand very much. In the previous system, for example, the postmen had 5.66 seconds to post a letter and 21 seconds to deliver a package. This met with a lot of protest. Will Parliament receive an evaluation of the ongoing pilot projects before the full system is rolled out in March 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u2	Mr President, Minister, for us the postal service is a public service, which means that people have the right to receive their mail every working day, as it should be. It's a basic service. We wonder if bpost with the plan that is now on the table will rather become a service for the better paying customers, while the less well-off customers will be less served. We notice that only one in five customers still use the prior system, so a large group of people don't use it. The prior system is therefore not very successful. As postal services only take place twice a week, this will cause problems for a number of people. Is it not important, Minister, that not only those who send mail items, but also those who receive mail items, can decide when the postal items are to be used? The recipient of postal items is as much a customer of bpost as the sender, isn't it? What if the recipient wishes to receive his letters daily, but the sender refuses to pay more? The postal service is, as the previous speaker said, a very strong one. How will this work for bpost staff themselves? Since there are peaks and valleys in the mail, do staff have to work very much on certain days and on other days less? What are the social partners' views on this way of working? Have the unions had a say in this project? Is this way of working not contrary to the management agreement between the government and bpost, whereby the postal distribution is guaranteed five times a week for the entire Belgian territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of your question, you yourself made it quite clear: the volume of letters is falling. An estimate of about 5% per year was made, but in the meantime we are closer to 10% per year. This means that people simply send fewer letters. I don't know when you wrote and sent a letter yourself that wasn't linked to the government or an invoice, but it's been a long time since I wrote it. Of course, customers are customers. That is absolutely clear. You say that the Prior Seal is not a success, but I think the figures simply point out that many people are quite satisfied that they only receive a letter after two or three days. That's just reality. Usually their letter is not a priority either, because if you want to reach someone quickly, it is best to do so via SMS, WhatsApp or mail. That's just reality today. Of course, the letter is received when it is sent. The old business model from the 18th and 19th centuries came down to the fact that the recipient paid for the letter, but that never worked well. It was then replaced by having the sender pay with the introduction of the stamp. That was an anecdote. Of course, many measures have already been taken at bpost to cope with the loss of volume. There were a number of operational improvements. We also note that the growth in the number of packets is still not sufficient to fully compensate for the decrease in the volume of correspondence and, as I said earlier, the customer expectations have simply shifted. Customers now attach more importance to the reliability of their shipment.... rather than the timing with which that happens. In that context, Bpost has effectively decided to switch to a new distribution model from March next year that provides for a daily delivery of prior shipments, registered shipments, parcels and newspapers and the distribution of non-priority shipments twice a week. This approach is fully consistent with the scope of universal service and also with the universal service obligation, as laid down in the Postal Act and in the management contract. So there is absolutely no problem there. By the way, Bpost is obliged to deliver mail with a prior stamp at least five days a week, which is fully honoured. We are not alone with that, by the way. Postal operators in other European countries, such as Denmark, Norway and Portugal, have also had to adapt their distribution model to the new reality due to the decreasing volume of letters. The new distribution model was also discussed with the social partners. The experiences that exist in the offices are also extensively discussed and further tested. The practical roll-out will also be further discussed at regional and local level, in order to assess the impact and daily operationalities, including the impact on working conditions for workers. The award model is already being applied to a number of rounds today. These are the pioneer offices: Waver, Leuven, Antwerp, Diksmuide, Charleroi, Tielt and Aarschot. It was important for us and for companies to look at their impact in both urban, semi-urban and rural areas. That's how they tested it. Further communication and roll-out will be done when the new distribution model is introduced and people are well informed. That too is planned. The decision on delivery times is simple: who pays, determines. If that is to be delivered on the same day or the next day, there is the prior option. I am thinking of special cases such as death. If one is satisfied with two or three days shipping time, then there is no problem in choosing a cheaper category. So this is a social measure. So I think the company has taken the right steps. We will, of course, have to take into account a further decline in the volume of letters, even in the future. This will require a permanent follow-up and evaluation of bpost to see how it is handled in the best way, not to lose out and to allow even more taxpayers' money to go to the business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u4	Minister, I agree with you that many letters are no longer a prior. We almost all communicate digitally or electronically. Then it's not as bad when a letter is on the bus a day later. You say, "Who pays?" You say, "Who pays?" However, I am concerned about a few situations where this will not always be so clear. For example, if someone requests a new bank card, it is the customer who will be happy to receive their card very soon, or the bank itself decides whether to pay for it and pass it on to the customer. In a number of situations this will not be so clear. This will require a thorough evaluation. I therefore hope that this evaluation will be carried out, including with regard to the impact on the postmen, because we have heard little about this now, perhaps because it is difficult to predict. I repeat, however, that it is certainly useful to have an evaluation in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I sent a birthday card this morning, so I'm still just using bpost as mail. Here's what I want to say. Bpost isn't a loser, it's a profit. We believe that services are important and that everyone should be able to use bpost. People with less resources have the same right to good services as those with more resources. I am in favour of installing an evaluation to assess the impact of the lake on the postmen themselves, both in terms of employment and working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u6	Bpost has a new CEO. Mr Van Avermaet is from the surveillance sector. Hopefully, he will also be careful about the employment at the post office. During his interview in Terzoe he didn't know much about bpost, because he didn't know what the price of a stamp is. This is a cause for concern for the PVDA-PTB Group. Van Avermaet is also president of Voka in Flemish Brabant. Hopefully he will be able to establish a good relationship with the staff of bpost. In the past, we have often heard that the wage ceiling among public enterprises makes it difficult to find suitable CEOs. Did candidates lose weight during the recruitment procedure because of the excessive wage requirements? What does Mr Van Avermaet's total wage package include, including extras? Why was it not chosen to inform the employees of bpost first about the new CEO and only afterwards the press? Mr Van Avermaet is also chairman of the employers' organisation Voka in Flemish Brabant and sits on various boards such as De Lijn, Festival of Flanders and a number of others. Will he be able to continue to exercise all those mandates in his post as CEO of Bpost? That is the largest federal company, with the largest employment in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u7	Mrs Vindevoghel, the board of directors has of course taken on the appointment of the new CEO, as described in the corporate governance rules and also in the 1991 law which has been amended by my predecessor. That's the way it's supposed to be. It is clear that only candidates who agreed to the remuneration package were involved in the recruitment procedure. That remuneration package is similar to that of Mr Van Gerven, which is described in the company's public annual report. That too is transparency and corporate governance. Since bpost is a listed company, it must also comply with a number of rules concerning, among other things, the communication of stock exchange sensitive information, such as the appointment of a CEO. This means that all shareholders and third parties must be informed simultaneously. Of course, that makes sense. If this were not complied with and information would be given to a particular party prior to the public provision of that information, the company's shares could possibly be played. That's why such a company always communicates such news just after stock exchange time, so that the information is made available to everyone at the same time. That is also the rule that was followed in the case in question. Apparently, however, one newspaper could not control itself and placed an article online a few minutes earlier. That is, of course, a matter that we do not always control ourselves. However, the rule is not to communicate until after stock exchange time, so that it is no longer possible to act and all shareholders and third parties have the same information. This is also the reason why staff cannot be informed sooner, namely because of these strict stock exchange sensitive information rules. In addition, Jean-Paul Van Avermaet is a very suitable candidate to lead bpost. He is socially, economically and culturally very committed. He also has sufficient experience in other companies. This commitment is effective in a number of administrative mandates, which, however, do not constitute any conflict of interest with its role as CEO. He will therefore have to assess for himself and decide for himself which mandates he may or may not retain, especially now in his new position.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question about Mr Van Avermaet's specific wage package. So I hope he does his job the way he should.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u9	Minister, according to the quality requirements in the management contract between Bpost and the government, 95% of shipments must be delivered in good time. Unfortunately, however, letters of mourning are still being delivered too late. There are even those who never come. If the villagers, friends or acquaintances of the deceased are warned too late, the emotional damage is often great. Like everyone else, people in mourning are certainly entitled to a flawless service by bpost. Printing is expensive and a prior stamp already costs 0.97 euros. From 2020, such a seal will become even more expensive. This price and the price increase must also be accompanied by a good service. From March 2020, bpost will launch a new distribution model with a separate approach for prior products and a different approach for non-priority products. The current model replaced a previous model that did work. The problems arose when it was decided internally to treat the internal dispatch of the letters of mourning from the regional offices, first to the regional sorting centre and from there to a main sorting centre, no longer as reserved documents, such as a registered dispatch, but as ordinary mail. Mr Minister, why did the previous system, which did provide proper service, bereavement letters, have been abandoned? What is the new system that will be launched from March 2020? How is it guaranteed that the letters of mourning in that new system will be delivered in time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u10	Minister, we just agreed that not all letters are equally urgent and that most customers do not mind if such documents are on the bus a day later. However, this does not apply to the letters of mourning. If they are sent with a prior stamp of almost 1 euro, one can assume that they will be on the bus in time. However, that is not the case now, as is evident from a call from the funeral directors but also from the annual report for 2018 of the mail-sector ombudswoman. She had received 37 complaints about this. I do not think that is a bad thing if we assume that not everyone knows whether such a letter has arrived in good time. A few years ago, your predecessor, Minister De Croo, announced that adjustments would be made to improve quality. However, there is no real improvement in quality in the field today. Minister, what measures will bpost take to get those letters on the bus in time? Is an adjustment of the quality criteria being considered, especially in view of the new management agreement? How many complaints did bpost receive in 2018 and 2019 about late receipt of mourning letters but also about birth cards?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u11	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. The matter is very sensitive to many people, both in good times and in bad times, both at birth and at death. Consultations have been held with the sector to see how a number of guidelines can be developed to ensure that the proper processing of the addressee's obituaries can be followed, such as delivery at a post office, a red letterbox with a late light hour, the use of envelopes that can be visually recognised as obituaries or the use of a special mourning stamp. Of course, correct and clear addressing, preferably typed and not handwritten, is also an aspect. Within bpost, special attention is paid to those shipments, throughout the processing process, i.e. in the post office, upon arrival in a collection platform, in the sorting centres and at the distribution ceremony. It was also agreed that communication should be restarted internally in the company in order to highlight its importance, its delicateness and due attention to the proper handling. The employees are therefore sensitized to pay close attention to this. Such agreements and procedures should be capable of ensuring a normal handling of mourning letters within the quality requirements of the prior seal or special seal. There have indeed been measurements carried out. The latest BIPT report, published in November 2019, indicates that for the year 2018, the quality for prior shipping is above 91 % within a period of D+1 and around 96.5 % within a period of D+2, which is lower than the standard provided for in the management contract. The BIPT itself states that a strike has taken place for a week, which can explain the delays and the figures for a large part. In the case of recent internal measurements by the company itself, the quality of prior shipments is 96.13 % in D+1 and 99.03 % in D+2, which is well above the standard of 95 %. The customer service follows any complaints very specifically. To this end, separate notes are made, so there are exact figures on the number of customer contacts about the delivery period of the announcements of birth, marriage and death. In this context, approximately one customer contact per day took place both in 2017 and 2018. This may be about informational questions or about questions post factum to what has just happened. I have just given an answer to the question of what the new distribution system will look like and its impact on the day-to-day operation and delivery of the mail. This has no impact on mourning shipments and births because this is treated as a prior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Wouldn't a better solution be to give this, as in the past, with registered shipments? They've suddenly abolished it. Why don't I know? After all, a registered shipment certainly arrived. The shipments used to stay in the same office. Now they go from one office to another and sometimes they get lost. If they go with the registered shipments, they won't be lost. That's my idea. I liked that system better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You say that the new distribution system will have no impact on this because this is always prior, but I think there are a lot of changes for the postmen with lots of new rounds. It is important that special attention is paid to these shipments, so that there is no error in the first few weeks. It is important to pay sufficient attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my questions today are about social tariffs in the telecommunications sector. The latest survey in 2018 on consumer perceptions of the Belgian electronic communications market reveals that 33% of respondents in the lowest income group do not know what a social rate is. Moreover, the Belgian Statistical Office Statbel reports that more than one in ten households does not have access to the Internet. These figures are all the more problematic because basic telecommunications services are essential for many citizens, especially those with financial difficulties. They are, among other things, a source of emancipation and integration into society. Indeed, it is almost essential today to have an internet connection to carry out job searches. In addition, public services are increasingly communicating via e-mail with their citizens, which can pose many problems for people who do not have access to the Internet. The problem is all the more important since there is a tendency to reduce public spending and rationalise services through digitisation. That's not the only problem. It's a long list. Minister, how many people do they benefit from the social rate? How much do you estimate the number of people who meet the conditions of the social tariff but who do not benefit from it? What arrangements could be put in place to include the maximum number of persons eligible for the grant? As we are, the IBPT has indicated to us that it is in favour of the automatic granting of social tariffs, which would, in particular, make it possible for them to avoid the work of verifying the conditions of granting. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u15	Mr President, thank you for this question. At the end of September 2019, the number of beneficiaries of the social tariff is 224,273 persons. The other estimates are very difficult to make, since the conditions for granting the social tariff are very complex. Indeed, there are several categories of beneficiaries of the social tariff, each of which has several criteria for granting. It complicates things. For some of these categories, such as those with laryngectomy, there is no database that can be accessed. It's very difficult to automate. But there is no doubt that there is a significant underutilization of this measure. Simplification of the conditions for granting social tariffs could of course be a solution, but as indicated, the conditions are complex, insufficiently transparent to the public, difficult to implement and there is no single database for all conditions. Full automation of social tariffs is of course desirable. I agree with you. But it cannot be achieved without a review of the conditions for granting it. Indeed, some conditions still need to be checked manually because there is no database. They are fully automated where possible. However, it will be necessary to review the conditions for granting the aid in order to be able to rely on available and easily accessible information. There is still a lot of work to be done, because changing parameters also means changing entitlement holders. Some will lose their rights at social rates, while others will get them. One may also wonder whether it is still useful to provide social rates for telephones, as the majority of people are more interested in the Internet, since it offers more services - especially telephones. That is why it is important to focus on the digital divide. I hope that the next government will be able to devote itself to this. In my view, it would seem easier for everyone to obtain automated social rates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u16	Mr Minister, if I have understood correctly, despite the magnitude of the difficulties, are you in favour of automatic granting of these tariffs? Are you going to take steps to that end? Or will it be the next government's business? I understand the difficulty, I don't deny it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u17	For the time being, there is nothing we can do, since we are in the business of day-to-day business. In any case, we have already taken action. A few months ago, with Maggie De Block, I launched an application to automate certain social rights. The previous government has therefore made some efforts. However, there is still work to be done for the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u18	In this case, minister, would it not be wise to develop better publicity? Indeed, a fringe of the population is not aware of the existence of these social tariffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u19	I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u20	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u21	Here, we will consider that this is the conclusion of your reply: it is necessary to better inform the public about what exists in terms of social tariffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u22	Mr Minister, the Proximus transformation plan would make about 1,000 workers redundant, which means about 5% of jobs too much. Today, the working rhythm at Proximus is 38 hours, while that at SNCB is 36 hours. Wasn't it an option to reduce working hours? Proximus pays out a fairly large dividend of 1.5 euro gross per share. Proximus spends approximately 95% of its profits on shareholders. Couldn't that dividend return be reduced a little bit and use it to keep jobs? That would be a good example of what is still a public undertaking. This would show that we want to keep as many jobs as possible. Is the government, as the main shareholder, not responsible for the payment of a high dividend return, which puts pressure on management and which means that the redundancies must be made? Is the government proposing a solution to the labour market issue? Why do we not turn the approach to redundancies into one of, for example, a reduction in working hours? How do you feel about the fact that many older workers are endorsed in the transformation plan? What will happen to these workers, given the position on SWT?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u23	Mr President, Minister, Proximus' social plan is a sensitive, painful and painful issue that we have been following closely since January of this year. We took note of yesterday's vote in the Joint Committee, which took place after my question was sent. But I cannot ignore this vote, which confirms the social plan. These are 1,341 jobs that will be removed, and this is a particularly difficult situation for all these families, these workers who will be affected. Our thoughts and support are primarily directed to them, and these are fundamental. On the other hand, what we are also concerned about is the possibility of putting in place today all the means available, political and other – such as social consultation – to obtain more clarity on the fate of the 1,300 people concerned and, above all, to avoid dry dismissals as much as possible. In any case, we do not have details at this stage. Hence my first question: do you have any details on the distribution of these 1,341 jobs and what conditions will be put in place to accompany workers? I would also like to know what you can put in place during the discussions to avoid as much as possible dry layoffs. For our Ecolo-Groen group, this is a top priority. At the beginning of the plan, in January, the government stated that it would do its utmost to avoid such dismissals. We supported the government's proactive approach. It is now clear that there will be dry redundancies. I wanted to know more and what will be put in place to avoid them. Finally, as you know, we will be receiving the new CEO of Proximus here in the parliamentary committee on 17 December. In view of the topicality of the social plan, my group – I have already informed the President in writing – is asking to be able to receive the union representatives to have their point of view. I think that we, as parliamentarians, must be able to plunge into this issue, which concerns us too, because we have reminded you that it is a self-sustaining public undertaking. There is also a responsibility and political stakes. In any case, it is a very short-term request that we make. But first I wanted to hear from you about the confirmation of the number of jobs, whether a distribution was possible and what you are going to do to avoid dry layoffs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u24	Thank you for both questions. I replied in part last week in plenary session. I am therefore also referring to the answer I gave at that time. Again, I really want to stress that I will continue to respect the good governance rules of this company. So I will not replace the board or the CEO. It is they who have made decisions for the transformation of this enterprise. We need to be clear about this. The state, as a shareholder, has a responsibility. We are obviously shareholders, but even then, rules must be respected and I will respect them 100%. Secondly, social dialogue took place. Trade unions and the company have been negotiating for months. The plan was announced in January. We've been negotiating for almost a year. Two thirds of the unions now agree with the transformation plan as presented at the last social consultation. That is an important element. Last week, I mentioned a number of elements in the plenary session, such as guidance measures and the development of a job platform with job vacancies. There is also provision for outplacement, increased investment in training and many other measures. For example, employees over 58 years of age have the possibility to leave the company for payment up to the statutory retirement age. Systems are therefore put in place and used during this debate and to conclude this social agreement. It is therefore important that the transformation plan be implemented further. The latest changes, tweaks, introduced in the negotiations include a job security clause until 1 January 2022, additional efforts to further reduce the number of redundant employees and additional measures before the end of the career for physically difficult professions. On a previous board of directors, that plan has already been approved. Now there is also a majority in the Joint Committee. At the meeting on 12 December, the Governing Board will take note of this and have the plan implemented effectively. I would like to stress once again that the transformation plan is necessary to secure the future of Proximus. It is unrealistic to launch plans that say that staff should work less. If the company wants to remain competitive in the future, other new profiles are needed, the company needs to be transformed and the quality of service to the consumer must be maintained effectively. Otherwise, consumers will switch to competition. It is important, I think, that the board of directors and the new CEO take responsibility and effectively implement the transformation plan. This indeed has an impact on employment, but everything will be done to minimise that impact. Social dialogue has served that purpose. The number has already shifted from 1,900 to 1,300. Numerous accompanying measures are also being taken. For me, it is essential that the company's future is guaranteed, that it can be competitive in the future and that it can also help in the future that Belgium has a strong telecom player, alongside the other existing players.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u25	Minister, Proximus is a profitable company. It is a missed chance that a public undertaking in which digitalisation ensures that people have to drain does not take advantage of the opportunity to reduce working hours with wage retention. It would have reduced the dividend by 5 % and all jobs would be saved. That would have been a very good solution for the more than a thousand people who are now forced to leave the company and may fall back on unemployment benefits. I am very sorry that this solution has not been found for the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. As you said, the political responsibility comes from the fact that the state is actually still more than 53% shareholder. We have already conducted this debate. I'm not asking you to do business at company level. But such a social plan goes beyond operational. As a majority administrator, the state in the broad sense – the government, but also parliamentarians – has a role to play. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here today asking you questions. But, as I've already told you, I don't think it's a part of the day-to-day operation. I can hear him. On the other hand, in relation to all the changes (digitalization, digital revolution), we are aware that things must change. It is obviously important to develop a company. I have no difficulty understanding it, but it should not be done on the backs of workers. We have been saying that since January. There was a vote in the Joint Committee. We take note of it and respect it. Social consultation is very important to us. We'll hear from the new CEO. That has been decided. We also call for union representatives to be heard. We want to follow this closely because a public company must be exemplary in terms of the quality of employment and society. This is why dry layoffs should be avoided to the maximum extent possible. We will do everything possible to ensure that the accompanying measures you are talking about are offered to as many workers as possible, because it is really important not to give them the impression that they are victims of this transformation plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall take it that the incident is closed for this afternoon but that the file remains largely open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u28	Mr. Secretary, Lebbeke's post office is no longer today. It's an old building that's been standing there for several decades. Accessibility has not been adapted anymore. It's also largely empty. There used to be other public services in it, but they have long left with the northern sun. Therefore, sales were considered in 2015. However, the building is owned by 23 percent of the Buildings. There were three scenarios on the table: either bpost would take over the share of the Regie, or the Regie would sell its share to the most offering, or both owners would sell their share in the building and one would look for a new location for a new post office. Minister, what will happen? Will the sale of the property be effective? According to what scenario would that happen? Do we already have a view of an alternative building or a new location or, on the contrary, will we prefer a renovation of the current building?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u29	Mr Roggeman, bpost itself no longer plans to invest. A sale of the building was chosen, preferably together with the Government of the Buildings, but not before 2023. In principle, the counters will therefore remain in that building for at least three years. At the moment we are not looking for an alternative location because we still have those prospects, but that can change when 2023 gets closer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u30	Thank you for your brief but strong answer, Minister. I regret, however, that nothing changes until 2023, eight years after the decision of principle to look for new housing. If I understand correctly, no maintenance work is planned either. No further adjustments are envisaged. However, it is important that we look for proper housing for our public services. A post office is by definition a public building. It should be open to any resident. That will not be the case for years now. That's not like this anymore. It is a public secret that the Government of the Buildings is not the most efficient infrastructure manager this country is rich, but I urge that the sale be made. I do not see why we should wait a very long time, three more years. I understand that there is no longer any provision for budgets, but taking into account the sales revenue of the current building, there is no need, in my view, for huge investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u31	Question No 55001622C by Mrs Ludivine Dedonder is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u32	Mr President, Minister, last year the Flemish radio station Radio 2 organised an experiment with a hundred letters. This year, she repeated the experience. The results were overwhelming. Two hundred letters were sent from eighteen locations to twenty-two Flemish and Brussels addresses. One hundred letters were stamped with a prior stamp and the other hundred with a non-prior stamp. According to the promises of bpost, a letter bearing a prior stamp must arrive at its destination on the working day following its dispatch. The delivery time for other mail is assumed to be three days. The two experiments showed that the reality was quite different: 18% of Prior's letters arrived late and 10% of the priority letters supposed to arrive in one day had still not been delivered after four days; 14% of Non-Prior's letters arrived late, i.e. they took more than three days to reach their destination and one of them was even delivered to a bad address; indeed, the mail was returned to the sender rather than to the addressee. Minister, how is it that, despite the major investments in automated mail distribution, only eight out of ten letters arrive at their destination in time? Are there enough factors to deliver all postal folds on time in mailboxes? Bpost customers pay additional fees for a prior stamp and precisely for their letter to arrive the next business day. Is this separation between prior and pon prior not obsolete in view of the results? What can customers do when they have suffered damage due to delayed delivery of their mail? The volume of postal mail is decreasing rapidly and sharply. Should this not allow all the mail to be distributed the next day? Does bpost not reduce its staff too quickly so that the mail arrives late? Is bpost ready to face the end-of-year period? Will all greeting cards and packages arrive on time, between one and three working days? Will there be enough staff to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u33	Mr. Chairman, Mr. D'Amico, bpost noted the research carried out by the Radio 2 Inspector Program. However, I must note that this survey was very limited. The figures have already been given in previous replies. For the J+1, we are close to 91% and for the J+3 we are close to 96%. Those presented by bpost are higher. The quality demand expressed by the company's customers is therefore met. Some surveys are conducted differently. For example, Belex measures percentages differently. This method is much more reliable, because it uses trackers that act on antennas and are sent to different locations and at varying times, so that it provides a complete view of the quality of bpost's operational services. At the end of the year, the volume of mail was indeed higher than in the rest of the year. For this period, bpost will therefore hire 1,900 agents in order to be able to deal qualitatively with all these shipments within a reasonable time. In my opinion, the difference between prior and non-prior will be maintained. As I explained earlier, clients express various requests, so a two- or three-day period is accepted in some cases. It is therefore up to the customers to choose. The figure mentioned in one prior for five stamps means that four out of five people believe that a non-prior is sufficient to send their mail. The damage suffered by customers is governed by the general terms and conditions, which can be found on the bpost website. Therefore, in the event of a problem, the procedures for remedying it are transparent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am astonished, however, that according to the test carried out by Radio 2, the statistics do not correspond to those of bpost. Indeed, two hundred letters is not annoyance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u35	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u36	Yes, it's annoyance, considering the whole thing. But why doesn't it work in this case? I am surprised to see that your statistics do not correspond to the ones I have just referred to. I am also pleased that 1,900 people will be engaged for the holidays. But what about these jobs afterwards? Will these people be hired as temporary workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u37	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u38	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u39	Minister, a new agreement has recently been signed between Proximus and MolenGeek, the famous start-up incubator located in Molenbeek. This new partnership is unique and very positive. It is the first large Belgian company, and also a public one, which starts a collaboration with the incubator. MolenGeek fulfils a mission to raise awareness of entrepreneurship at the beginning of the entrepreneur's career. The objective of the incubator is to introduce entrepreneurship through various events but also to transmit knowledge of computer languages through its coding school. The school allows the entrepreneur to develop his project technically but also to integrate other projects. Minister, could you give more details about this partnership? What exactly is it? What support will Proximus give MolenGeek? Is there a financial contribution planned? For how long is the partnership planned? Are other partnerships of this type planned by Proximus with other players in the world of start-ups and the entrepreneurial ecosystem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u40	Dear colleague, this partnership has been concluded in a positive spirit and can be found from various angles: the provision of telecommunications equipment and services, the exchange of knowledge, training, internships and consultancy. There is also the installation of fiber in the MolenGeek settlements. 3D computers and printers have already been provided. Students will have the opportunity to develop internet solutions of things through the sensors that will be provided to them, with access to the interfaces and platforms of Proximus. Collaborations will be put in place to provide educational content in order to be able to use these technologies. In other areas (artificial intelligence, virtual and augmented reality, blockchains, drones, etc.)), courses in the catalogue of Proximus Corporate University will also be offered at MolenGeek. Internships at Proximus will also be offered to MolenGeek students. Synergies will be developed with the ecosystem and start-ups around MolenGeek. Financial support is provided for the organisation of joint events such as weekend start-ups, hackactons and others. This partnership is concluded until the end of 2020, with the firm will of both parties – if all goes well – to extend it in the longer term. This is not the only partnership that Proximus has entered into. I can mention among other things partnerships with Technobel, a skills centre located in Ciney, with school 19 in Uccle or with technological start-ups. I hope that such partnerships will be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u41	Minister, this partnership with MolenGeek is very interesting. It would be good to do the same with all incubators related to entrepreneurship and digital. MolenGeek has a very strong social dimension and maintaining collaborations in the social, entrepreneurship and digital dimensions is very interesting because this can lead to positive emancipation, which is dear to us as ecologists. This type of model that can reinforce the three elements is interesting but it would be even more interesting if the climate dimension were present. I imagine other projects will be devoted to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u42	Mr Minister, I have already asked you about this real difficulty - which we have already discussed in committee - which lies in the new role of the factors, since 1 July, which control the beneficiaries of the GRAPA allowance (income guarantee for the elderly). This income is subject to different conditions, one of which is to reside in Belgium. Since 1 July, it is the factors which control whether these persons are actually in Belgium when they go to these beneficiaries. Many voices have risen to denounce this new role of factors and to criticize it loud and clear. The factor unions as well as ourselves, the ecologists, we have spoken out and we have a real difficulty in dealing with this mission because, as I have already said, the factor has a positive role in society today. At the societal level, it has a positive role to play with our fellow citizens and, in this case, it now has a supervisory role which, in our view, is not part of a factor's remit. We are in favour of expanding the role of the factor in general because it is well known that the distribution of paper letters is inevitably declining. We are in favour of other societal roles but not control roles. It is a real difficulty that we have here in this regard. I re-examine you today for two new elements to my knowledge: the first is that the RTBF made a report on pensions and in particular, on this new mission in its feature of Questions à la Fronte, on November 20th. What is interesting is that a lawyer spoke – Master Jean Bourtembourg – a lawyer specializing in public law. When asked about the report, he said: "This control would be intelligence but no evidence. It doesn't have the strength of a VP. People could challenge the alleged finding (the beneficiaries of GRAPA), with a high chance of winning the case." We receive a lot of messages from beneficiaries who are facing difficulties. I don't know if you or your administration are getting them, too. I picked up one of those messages and I'm going to read it to you without quoting the person. "Control of pensioners by factors: although bpost defends itself, we are well controlled in this way; my factor came to my home. My ID card was out of date, so he couldn't get it into the box he was holding. Being unable to move (the person is obviously ill or physically prevented), the replacement of my card was a problem as well as the certificate of residence. So I exceeded the five-day deadline. As a result, my GRAPA has been deleted. So I've been living for two months with 216 euros a month because I don't know how to leave my apartment and I've only seen my factor once and not three as indicated." I think there's a real difficulty on the ground. I wanted to hear from you, not only about what the lawyer said in the report, but also about the substance. I will ask your colleague Mr Bacquelaine in the Social Affairs Committee tomorrow the same question. I think there is a real difficulty on the ground, beyond opposition to a principle on which we do not agree, since we are opposed to this role of control by the factor. I know that an evaluation will be carried out in January. I ask that at that time there be at least wide-ranging hearings of stakeholders, with representatives of GRAPA beneficiaries as well. I say this constructively: there is really a difficulty on the ground. I think we need to reconsider this way of doing things. You can change things, but when you feel that it's getting stuck, that you put people already in difficulty into greater difficulty, you also have to be able to have the wisdom to rethink things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u43	Mr President, thank you for this question. We have already had the opportunity to have a more in-depth debate on the principle. I am also Minister for the fight against social fraud. I think that from the moment when there is an obligation to reside in Belgian territory, we must also be able to monitor compliance with it. I think we agree. In all this process, it must be made clear that bpost is only a neutral logistics partner, which carries out only a verification procedure. That's all it is. With the new procedures, we tried to help people. I explained it last time. Prior to 1 July, the Federal Pension Service sent to GRAPA beneficiaries, already by bpost, a certificate of residence which was to be returned within 21 days after being completed by the municipality. It was a rather complicated procedure. Otherwise, the payment of GRAPA was suspended. This was the default position in this case: if the form is not completed, you lose your GRAPA. Now, with the new procedure, the GRAPA beneficiary must no longer travel to the municipality to have his certificate of residence completed. In the case you mentioned, it is already a simplification, because if people really have problems getting to the commune, now the procedure is much simpler. The delivery of the document shall be effected by the factor at the residence of the beneficiary after presentation of his valid identity card. It's like a recommended one, which involves the presentation of the ID card as well. In the event of the absence of the beneficiary, two further attempts to surrender the control document shall be made. It may be true that there was only one contact in this case, but at least there have been two contacts before. Perhaps the person was not at home or for some other reason, and these contacts did not take place. In this context, an evaluation is already planned for January. If there are really problems on the ground, we'll find them out with you in January. bpost, as before, is a logistics partner who makes the observation, no more. I think the whole procedure is much simpler for people who have problems moving around. Now it's the factor that moves home. Previously, people had to go to the commune. However, we tried to simplify things. But as I said, there will be an evaluation in January. If real problems on the ground persist in January, we will find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u44	We have already had this debate. In principle, we do not agree. It's not like a recommended one. A recommended person requires you to show your ID card, but there is no sanction if you are not there. Here, de facto, there is a penalty behind. That is, of course, the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u45	No. When you are not there after three passages, the old procedure applies. Then we have to go to the commune. I think the procedure has been simplified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u46	Yes. This is our second element of disagreement in principle. I understand there are controls. We understand this principle. But for us, as a matter of principle, it is not the factor to do them. We could imagine other people coming to the house. I can understand that administrative procedures are being simplified, but we do not think it is up to the factor to do that. In addition, we have the testimony of a specialist lawyer who really says that the beneficiaries would get – on a conditional basis because this is not yet the case – win in a court of law. We will be very attentive and very active during the evaluation in January. Let us pay attention to the return of the land. It's really interesting to change things that we thought were good, maybe even with the best intentions. I'm not trying intent. I am just saying that this principle is a problem for us and that in the field there is a real difficulty in applying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u47	As with the other point, I will conclude that the incident is closed for this afternoon, but that it will not fail to come back tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u48	Minister, it was recently announced that Guillaume Boutin will be the new CEO of Proximus. His first working day was certainly remarkable, but you will not be surprised that we are primarily interested in his remuneration. There has also been a lot to do about Dominique Leroy's remuneration. Her remuneration consisted of a fixed part and a variable part. In total, this was a gross annual wage of 940,000 euros. There was a lot of disagreement about the long-term bonus. Mrs Leroy was not entitled to do so, although some drivers were entitled to do so. That, of course, caused some discussion. According to you, the timing was not good to pay extra wages, but now times seem to have changed somewhat, because according to the media, the new CEO will have the opportunity to claim the long-term bonus. According to Stefaan De Clerck, his salary is in line with what the politicians thought was acceptable. Firstly, why is a long-term bonus being paid to the new CEO? How much will it be annually? How high can it be? Secondly, is it up to a government in current affairs, which does not have a majority, to distribute a raise to a new CEO, who had to make difficult decisions on the transformation plan from day one, which means that a lot of people have to drain?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u49	First of all, I would be interested in what a CEO will do, how he will run the company and how he will bring a future, rather than his reward. But I do understand your question. By the way, I was of the opinion that Dominique Leroy was also entitled to that long-term bonus. I've said that publicly. But first, the transformation plan needs to be completed, which is happening now. The remuneration of the current CEO of Proximus consists of a fixed fee of 500,000 euros. That's less than the lump sum his predecessor got. In addition, Mr Boutin retains the short and long-term bonus, to which he was already entitled in his previous position as Chief of the Consumer Business Unit. This amounts to 40% of the basic fee each time. Power and responsibility lies with the Governing Board, not with the Government. I believe that Stefaan De Clerck's statement is correct and that everything is effectively in line with the remuneration package of Mr Boutin's predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u50	Minister, we are particularly interested in what the CEO wants to do in the coming years, but we would rather hear that from him. We would like to invite him to explain this in our committee. The remuneration is a political one. Hence the question of remuneration to you. In any case, it is positive that Proximus has a new CEO who also knows the company, which I will call relatively young and from whom I hope it brings a new dynamic. Another important point for our group is that the Governing Board is also involved and that there is good cooperation. The rules require that no person on that board should be over 70 years of age. That means half of them will have to be replaced soon. This is also important for the dynamics. We therefore hope that no exceptions will be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u51	I strongly support respect for corporate governance. There is indeed an age limit. Let us also respect them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u52	It might have been more useful if my question had merged with the previous questions on the transformation plan. I will therefore not repeat much more, but just add a few things about the plan. The trade unions have not been able to see the plans. In the meantime, a meeting has taken place. Your predecessor, Minister De Croo, has abolished the government commissioner, who is the bridge between the company and the government. This may lead to discussion about the communication between the two. What was the outcome of the consultation in detail? Afterwards, an e-mail was distributed from Proximus. Among other things, it states: "These discussions have taken place in a constructive atmosphere and a number of elements have been added to the transformation plan, such as additional efforts to further reduce the number of employees and the additional measures for the end of career for physically difficult professions." It is not so clear what this means. Perhaps you could explain that a little bit more. Can you explain to us what the chalk lines of the plan are? How many people can keep working? Is there, among other things, a provision for training pathways? Are you, as a custody minister, aware of the decisions that have been taken? Why is staff so little involved in the design of this plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u53	Mrs Depraetere, in the previous questions, I have already provided some clarification on the lines of the Fit for Purpose Plan and the adjustments that have been made at the end. Two thirds of the trade unions agreed to this social plan after almost a year of social consultation. That's the way it's supposed to be. Social dialogue is organized with competent trade unions. They are the employees' representatives. Perhaps the employees feel that the representatives have too little contact with the company; you should check with your own trade union. It is also the standard practice in a social agreement that when two thirds agree, that is respected. I refer again to corporate governance. It is the Management Board that puts plans on the table and implements them. The full board of directors unanimously endorses this transformation plan. That is a clear signal that the company is actually going that way. In any case, I am pleased that, after such a long negotiation, an agreement was reached with which two thirds of the trade unions agreed, after not always easy but constructive consultations. Efforts have been made to refer staff to outplacement, retraining courses, perhaps internal vacancies, voluntary departure for workers at the end of their careers and for physically difficult occupations. It therefore seems logical to me that this should be the case. This is absolutely an agreement that also gives the company's future every opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u54	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. You say that the agreement was concluded with the trade unions and that this is the right way of working. I agree with that, but it is not really the way things are going that the trade unions could not see the plan. There is something to be said about this. I also think it is important for Parliament to have a little more explanation on this matter as soon as possible. The sp.a Group supports the elements you describe, but they remain very vague, no matter how important they are. What does this career end for heavy-duty occupations mean? What do these retrainings mean? We would like to have some more information about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u55	Minister, in 2015 bpost intended to play a leading role in the growing market of urban distribution. That's why it bought into CityDepot's mail company, four years ago. Bpost immediately became the main shareholder in 2015 and would further increase his share in the system of urban distribution in the coming years, says top man Koen Van Gerven. The intention of the merger was to take the lead together in the growing market of urban distribution. In the case of urban distribution, goods are collected in depots on the outskirts of the city, from where they are delivered with smaller vehicles in the centre. According to the advocates, this avoids large trucks entering the centre, which directly benefits mobility and the environment. CityDepot uses, among other things, so-called cargo bikes. Since the group was under the wings of bpost, post cars could also be switched on. Bpost recently concluded an agreement with BD myShopi for the sale of CityDepot's activities from 1 January 2020, i.e. only four years after its acquisition. CityDepot has 30 employees, all of whom would be taken over by the new owner, BD myShopi, while that company is currently in a process of restructuring itself. We heard that more than 124 employees were fired and that 49 more jobs would have to be lost by 2020. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you explain the short-term shareholding of CityDepot's Post? Was the acquisition a strategic error and therefore a bad investment by top man Koen Van Gerven? Has the growth market of urban distribution, marked by Koen Van Gerven, suddenly become a shrinking market? How much has the purchase and integration of CityDepot cost to bpost and for what amount is CityDepot taken over by BD myShopi? Given the current firing round at BD myShopi, can you guarantee that the 30 employees working for CityDepot can work under the same conditions at BD myShopi? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u56	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I will try not to disappoint you. Bpost group and BD myShopi have indeed entered into an agreement for a takeover by BD myShopi of CityDepot's activities from 1 January 2020. The analysis was that bpost together with CityDepot could not create sufficient synergies. The new buyer is convinced that he can. Otherwise, of course, such a takeover would not happen. According to my information, the 30 employees of CityDepot are already working at BD myShopi on exactly the same terms as the terms they had at CityDepot. The question you are asking about the financial data is one of the confidential information of a company, which I cannot therefore tell you. However, Bpost continues to focus on the sustainable delivery of packages to private individuals in the B2C market, which remains very important for bpost. The city centres are the experiment centres for new models, on which bpost wishes to continue to use. The same applies to electric vehicles, in which a considerable amount of investment has been made in recent years. Bpost therefore remains committed to maintaining the focus on sustainable deliveries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u57	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u58	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u59	(...) We do not understand that a company dismisses employees during restructuring, takes over employees from another company and then organises redundancies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u60	I'm not the CEO of bpost or BD myShopi or CityDepot. I can only say that, according to the information I have received, the acquisition will also involve the transfer of the thirty staff to the new company on exactly the same terms and conditions. I can't tell you what happens internally or what profiles it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u61	Will they do the same work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u62	I don't know. They will at least be given the same conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, question No. Mr Kir's 55002050C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u64	Mr Minister, fireworks are currently a very topical issue, especially with the end of the year in sight. We find that fireworks are increasingly being purchased online. In the Netherlands 50,000 kilograms of fireworks were seized last year and in Poland that was another 80,000 kilograms. That's a record. It is not only a lack of quality and safety requirements; it is quite dangerous to order fireworks from web shops. The illegal fireworks ordered via webshops are delivered in mail packages to the private individual. The transport of such illegal fireworks does not comply with the necessary transport regulations, with of course all the risks that this entails, both for the orderrs and for roommates, neighbors and employees of the mail and distribution services. Firstly, are there regular inspections by bpost on the transport of fireworks? If so, how are the packages checked? Does this apply both to packages from outside the EU and within the EU? Secondly, how many packages were checked in 2018? What percentage of the total number of treated packages was checked? How many packages did they find fireworks in? What are the preliminary figures for 2019? Thirdly, which category of fireworks was found? Is this about illegal fireworks? What was the origin of the packages? Fourthly, is bpost planning, with the holidays approaching, additional checks on sending fireworks by post? What specific measures does the company take? Finally, in the Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor's Office is in favour of relaxing the letter secret on packets in order to be able to carry out checks more quickly. Does Bpost think that the letter secret is an obstacle to checking suspicious packages? Are all suspicious packages passed on to the competent services? How does cooperation with other competent services such as the FPS Economy or customs proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u65	When handling letters and packages, Bpost must respect the constitutional right to the secret of letters and should not take note of the content of shipments entrusted to the company. If consignments are found with suspicious characteristics, especially appearances of course, the police will be notified. Full co-operation will also be given to investigative actions carried out by the police, customs or economic inspection services. It is actually up to them to show how hard they go looking for such products, because bpost itself does not actively detect. So I can't give you the numbers either. I can tell you that incidents involving suspicious shipments of fireworks are very limited: less than one per year. None of the services have currently asked bpost to change the existing procedures. Cooperation between the various departments seems to be relatively positive. I do not think that there are enough reasons today to allow new exceptions to the constitutionally enshrined letter secret, which is quite essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u66	That's obvious. I'll look into it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u67	Minister, I have already asked Minister Bellot this question. I'm going straight to my specific questions about the internet on the train. What concrete measures do you take to show that large parts of the rail network still do not have sufficient signal strength to get mobile internet into the train? What measures do you plan next to the 14 railway lines from the Royal Decree? At the beginning of this year, the BIPT announced that it would carry out practical tests on the most important railway lines in our country. What were the results? In the future, practical tests will also be carried out on other railway lines, where we do not yet have adequate coverage and are not affected by it. Finally, there is disagreement about the distribution of income between the Regions and the federal government. Until that is resolved, there could be no licence auction. Where are we on these conversations? When do you expect to start doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u68	Mrs Verhaert, you know that, in addition to the pilot projects on the 14 railway lines to which you referred and the general commitment to cover, there are no specific measures for the railways. The BIPT is currently analysing the drive tests of the second semester of 2019. These data are still being processed and the results will be published shortly. Once the multiband auction has taken place, one can look at the possibility to add new parameters such as saturation, providing different networks or deployment on the train to those tests. As far as your question on 5G is concerned, I remain convinced that we must proceed very quickly with that auction. You're aware of the blocking we have there. At the moment we are trying to bring some new parameters into the discussion. The BIPT is currently conducting a study to determine the extent to which mobile data is used for audiovisual services. That was a question from the regional authorities, because it is the basis on which they claim that more resources should go to the regions. The telecommunications services are a federal competence and we are looking at the relationship. The results are expected in 2020. This study will also help to objectify the discussion on the distribution of resources. Personally, I think it would be better to keep the auction now in order to put the funds aside. Afterwards we can discuss the distribution with all the parameters we want, but at least we can start rolling out 5G. There are other, new elements in the file. After a study by a specialised agency, the value of the 3.5 GHz band was adjusted from 43 to 181 million euros. So there will be more revenue. We also want additional 5G frequencies to be made available to private networks. Then there can be extra investment in 5G within companies. Another element we are looking at now is the flowing back from the 5G auction to the 5G ecosystem, in order to actually stimulate projects that would work with 5G from the bottom up. Those are all new mindsets. So you can see that we are not sitting still, we are really trying to find solutions because we want to make Belgium a frontrunner in the story of 5G. If we wait any longer, we will begin to lag behind in Europe. That cannot be the intention at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic068x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Together with you, we look forward to these solutions, so that 5G can be introduced gradually.
