ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u1	Unfortunately, Minister, in our country too many people, people living in poverty or unable to make ends meet, need food aid. This year, more than 10,500 additional people came to the food banks or at least 6,6 % more. In the meantime, that number will still be increasing, because my question dates back to the beginning of September. It's a shame she can't be asked until now. However, the budgets of the sector are under pressure. As a result of the reform of the European Food Aid Programme, an important source of aid is at risk of falling from EUR 88 million a year to EUR 52 million, which means that a fifth less food in a less balanced composition would reach the food banks. However, the reform has not yet been definitively approved by the European Parliament. The Belgian Federation of Food Banks therefore calls on the Belgian Government to commit itself to at least maintaining the current food aid budget. Firstly, how will you try to ensure that current European food aid resources are safeguarded? The debate in Europe has been going on for a while. In the meantime, have you had any contacts? After all, I gave you the question at the beginning of September. What have you been able to do in the last few months? Secondly, if European budgets are to be reduced, how will you ensure that food banks have sufficient variety of food? Have you consulted with your colleagues in the Länder and checked whether they too are prepared to make an effort or to compensate part of it, if Europe decides to allocate less resources? Thirdly, this year there were already problems with the FEAD delivery to the food banks through the new procedure. I have already asked you about this in the past. What measures have you taken to prevent such deficits from occurring in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u2	Mrs Lanjri, the proposal prepared by the European Commission is currently under discussion. It provides that the FEAD will be included in the ESF+ and that a minimum of 2% of the Belgian envelope will have to be reserved for the benefit of the most deprived persons. If Belgium confines itself to that minimum, the available European budget for supporting the most deprived will indeed be substantially reduced compared to the current programming. That is unacceptable. On the other hand, it is essential to continue the efforts made during the previous legislature. The proposal is a minimum. Member States may grant a larger share of the ESF envelope to support the most deprived. The European Commission proposes to Member States a non-binding target of 4%. That threshold would allow us to approach a budget equal to the budget for the current programme. In my view, it is clear that this element will have to be taken into account in the development of the operational programme 2027 between the federal government and the Länder. There have already been contacts in that sense. I hope that the next federal government, like the new regional governments, will fully pursue that goal. For the new programming, the degree of co-financing will also be adjusted. It rises from 15% to 45%, which means an increase in Belgium's contribution. Finally, I confirm that there is no problem this year under the food purchase procedure: the organisations in the field were informed about the delivery planning, which started in November 2019 and continued until October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u3	In any case, Minister, I am pleased that, like me, you think that it would be unacceptable, really unacceptable, that these budgets should fall. It is already scandalous that there are so many people living in poverty in a prosperous country like Belgium and that more than 100,000 people have to live on a living wage and some even with less, that a lot of people are moving to the Food Banks and that that number is even increasing. In that sense, I would say that the resources should not only be maintained, but that they would actually increase best. I would rather not see that we should give extra resources, but if there is a need, then we should also give emergency aid. In view of the non-binding objective of using 4% of ESF resources, I therefore assume that we, as a Member State, will do so in order to keep efforts at least equal and, preferably, to increase them. The co-financing, which now amounts to 45% instead of 15%, will lead us to an increase in available resources, you say. How much additional resources can we count on if co-financing increases? If you cannot answer me immediately, you may give me the answer in writing, because that is still unclear to me. Finally, you say that you are striving for this and that the negotiations are still under way, but when will we be sure that the funds will be available next year? After all, it is almost the end of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u4	By 2020, it will be fine as far as FEAD is concerned, but by 2021 it will be the work of the next federal government. We are in ongoing business, so the next government will have to make a new effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u5	All right, we will have to work together to ensure that the next government does indeed ensure that resources are maintained and even increased, because unfortunately the number of people who need food aid is also increasing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u6	Mr Minister, in July 2016, the Chamber adopted the draft law amending the Law of 26 May 2002 on the right to social integration. With this change, the government wanted to reform the individualised project for social integration. This new scheme did not impose an obligation on local authorities to conclude an individualised project for social integration with all living wagers and to include voluntary community service in the GPMI. However, in July 2018, the Constitutional Court destroyed part of this reform, precisely the part of the voluntary community service that would be covered by the GPMI. In that context, Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, I asked in March 2018 to evaluate the voluntary community service, because I also had some reservations, but I left that in the middle and wanted to wait for the evaluation. After all, your policy paper stated that an evaluation would take place in 2019. It is now at the end of 2019 and I assume that evaluation has taken place in the meantime. What are the results of that? If that evaluation hasn't happened yet, when can we expect them? You yourself had announced that it would happen in 2019, so I do expect that it has happened. Secondly, in your policy paper, you also said that the Constitutional Court did not destroy the community service for reasons of substance. I didn't understand that judgment in the first place. In its judgment, the Court states that the Community service has characteristics which are too close to those of paid employment. The border between voluntary community service and paid employment is apparently too narrow. Once the community service was accepted by the wager, that community service becomes mandatory and is no longer voluntary. As a result, the wager can be sanctioned and lose part of his living wage if he does not comply with the obligations of his GPMI, such as the community service. I understand this was the big problem. I think that's where the Constitutional Court put its finger on the wound. Could you give us a little more explanation on this? Thirdly, the voluntary community service, as defined in the reformed GPMI, was destroyed. Have all voluntary community services been discontinued since July 2018? If not, why not? Fourthly, how many OCMWs used a GPMI with voluntary community service? Which target groups entered a GPMI with voluntary community service? Please give figures on the number of young people under 25, the number of 25-plussers, the number of recognised refugees and the number of subsidiaryly protected. What kind of tasks were carried out within the voluntary community service? How many commuters who volunteered for community service then flowed to full-time work? That is the intention, namely that some of the people can move on to full-time work. What is the average duration of the period during which community service is performed before the transition to the regular labour market can be made?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u7	Minister, I have a similar question and will not repeat what Mrs Lanjri has already said. We note that the Constitutional Court has had cases concerning the extension of the IPMI instrument. A voluntary community service is no longer voluntary if it is included in a contract, it becomes mandatory. This matter would no longer be a federal competence, especially when it comes to activating the unemployed and wage-earners. You know, you won't be surprised that the Labour Party wasn't won for that measure. We are totally opposed to this. Making people work without wages doesn't help them, on the contrary. It will not lead people to full employment. Moreover, it will also cost regular jobs, as wagers who do unpaid work will often push people with full-time and well-paid jobs, including in urban services and green services. It will certainly also be detrimental to the low-skilled. I am thinking of the example of The Hague, where a lot of people have become unemployed because of austerity. People who were street sweepers then had to do the same work in return for 400 euros less. This leads to precarisation of labour. The Network against Poverty has also opposed this, not because there has to be a certain amount of guidance, but all the more so because there should be no compulsory voluntary service for a benefit, which is well below the European poverty line. Has the evaluation of the GPMI planned for this autumn been completed? What are the main lines? As part of this report, how do you evaluate your own experience with the community service? Did it show an added value, both quantitatively, i.e. in numbers, and qualitatively, in terms of emancipation of people who enjoy a living wage? How do you weigh the added value of the community service in relation to the Article 60 system, in terms of combating poverty and in terms of the flow to sustainable work? Have all OMCWFs complied with the withdrawal of the Community service as part of the GPMI? Have you checked this actively and effectively? What replacement measures did they include in their modified GPMIs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u8	Mrs Lanjri, Mr De Vuyst, allow me first of all to nuance your words. I reaffirm that the Constitutional Court has not defined the legal nature of Community services. The Court stated, at most, that it regarded the Community services as rather an employment measure, which therefore falls within the competence of the regions. Nothing more. The Court did not rule on the content. Moreover, the Council of State confirmed this view in its judgment of 24 October last on the executive royal decree. The Court may have to rule on this one day because it requires the agreements of the Flemish Government, which includes CD&V, Mrs Lanjri, community services for people who have been unemployed for more than two years, as well as for wage-earners. I confirm that all Community services have ceased following this judgment. The instructions in this sense were communicated to the OCMWs by circular letter dated 26 July 2018. The PPS Social Integration tells me that the figures for community services are no longer available. The code in question in the reimbursement system was blocked. So I cannot give you an answer on this point. Finally, I would like to confirm that an overall assessment of the reform of the IMP is under way. Those works started in early October and will run for a year. Consequently, I cannot give you the results and conclusions yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It may be a pity that we do not yet have any data on the evaluation, but the evaluation is already under way, so I can come back to that in a year's time. I find it very strange that you say that you no longer have the numbers because the code is blocked. I can't really imagine that. It raises questions about why the administration would block that code. How can you evaluate your policy if you don't even have the slightest idea of figures? It is impossible for you, by some kind of code, to remember how many OCMWs have used it or what type of people have entered the voluntary community service. How can you make that evaluation if you do not have the data? That seems very difficult to me, if not impossible. I find it hallucinating that the administration reports that she doesn't have that data because of some blocking of a code. I have already indicated that the border between voluntary community service and employment is particularly thin. That has always been our fear. It has to be one or the other. In the case of voluntary community service, it must be effective voluntary. If it is compulsory, care must be taken to ensure that it is not employment, because there are consequences for employment, for example a decent wage and decent framework. I'm still looking forward to your answer on that code that's been blocked. I find the fact that data is blocked hallucinating. It's still a mystery to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u10	Mr. Secretary, I'm a little perplexed, too. The reform dates from 2016. I find it strange that this evaluation has not yet been carried out. They also try not to adjust and monitor this in the meantime. That surprises us very much. We hope that you will do so as soon as possible. Parliament has a controlling function and needs to be able to ask questions about it, but if there are no figures, we cannot determine the consequences of the policy. Then we will not be able to express any critical reservations and we will not be able to correct them. So we're sitting here with a blind spot. Or rather call it a blind policy. The legal basis can, of course, be discussed. The Constitutional Court may have only ruled on the division of powers. The basic problem here is, in my view, the fact that it is mandatory once it is included in a contract of a GPMI. The International Labour Organisation is also very clear about this. Agreement 29 within the ILO of 1930, which is also binding on Belgium, states that it is compulsory to abolish forced or compulsory labour in all its forms on its territory. I think we will have a major problem there, including at Flemish level. If we want to introduce this for the unemployed after two years, we will, quite rightly, also encounter this convention. Then we await an evaluation. We will follow this closely and continue to ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u11	The answer from my administration is clear: without legal basis, without code, no statistics. I understand your reactions. I was also a member of the People's Party for 15 years. I will ask my administration again if it is possible to obtain this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u12	Thank you, Minister. I think this is only logical. I hope you will give us this in writing. Your administration still needs the data for the evaluation. It seems logical to me to provide that information to us as well. It contributes to greater transparency and a proper functioning of democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u13	Mr Minister, I have asked you on several occasions on this subject as well, when the OMCW of Antwerp started to engage private investigators to check whether people had possessions abroad. I made it clear, and I repeat, that the living wage must be for those who need it and that we must tackle any form of abuse or social fraud. The living wage does not serve people who have all kinds of possessions abroad or wherever. No problem that abuse is being addressed, but that must be done in a correct way, following an investigation by the social assistant. After all, it is responsible for that investigation. We cannot simply give that out of our hands, because that is contrary to OCMW legislation. You also said that I was right at the time, and then the way in Antwerp was changed. However, this does not remove the problem, because of course any abuses must be dealt with. Some time ago I questioned you about the possibility of giving all OCMWFs access to the information available on the attack note and thus assisting the OCMWFs in the property investigation of persons involved. You wanted to go into this and you said: "A request for access to personal data may be submitted by the Social Integration Office for all OCMW's, on the basis of its capacity as managing body of a secondary network within the meaning of Article 1, 6° of the Royal Decree of 4 February 1997 on the organisation of the communication of personal social data between social security institutions. This not only avoids the need for all 581 OCMWFs to submit a separate request, which would flood the various administrations, but also ensures that all OCMWFs have access to the same categories of personal data. The PPS Social Integration is therefore already developing such data exchange in cooperation with the FPS Finance, taking into account the obligations under the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation. I naturally want this work to continue and develop, to ensure the quality of the data exchanged and to provide administrative simplification for the actors in the field. That was your answer to my question on 31 July 2019. So, Minister, my question is now the following. What is the state of play today regarding the discussions between the PPS Social Integration and the FPS Finance, which you indicated at the time that they were in the process? They've been at it for months now. I hope that the conversations are now complete and that all OCMWs have effective direct access to the data so that not everything has to be done individually. Minister, will you instruct the Social Integration PPS to submit a new investigation to the Data Protection Authority in order to gain effective access to the necessary data on the hit ticket? If so, what timing are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u14	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, as I mentioned earlier, I believe that an electronic exchange of personal data between the OMCWs and the public authorities is part of the modern and efficient policy. Electronic data flows allow OMCWs to quickly obtain complete, objective and correct information about the data subject. This administrative simplification benefits both OMCW staff and the beneficiary who can be helped more quickly. Of course, the legislation on the processing of personal data is strictly respected. For the information available through the tax bill, the FPS Finance, my administration and the PPS Social Integration have worked together and identified a list of needs. They are currently finalising the request for discussion in the Information Security Committee's "federal government' chamber. Once the Committee has made its decision, the flow to the OCMWs can be realized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u15	Thank you, Minister, you have given a positive answer. I am pleased that your administration, together with the FPS Finance Department, is approaching the final phase and is now continuing to agree on how the data exchange should be done, so that it can all be done automatically and much faster in the future. This seems to me to be important not only for the investigation of social fraud, but also for the investigation of the needs of those involved, which may speed up the award of the living wage to which they are entitled. I look forward to the effective rapid realization of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, under the previous legislature, we voted in the Committee on the Economy, which I had the honour of chairing and then in plenary session, a law to improve the social protection of self-employed workers with disabilities: the law of 22 May 2019. That is to say that this law was a last-minute law in the transitional period of the end of the legislature that we have known, a law on which consensus could be found in committee. The waiting period for the grant of an incapacity benefit for the self-employed has now been reduced from 14 to 7 days. In addition, the entire period of incapacity for work of the self-employed is now compensated if the disease lasts beyond the 7th day. This is a major step forward for more than one million self-employed people, praised by the representative organisations (UCM, SNI), but insufficient in our view. Nevertheless, it was the result of the consensus reached between nine political groups at the time. During the political discussions, many questions were asked. These included the budgetary impact and the control of incapacity for work, which is not the same for the self-employed as for the employees. That is why a monitoring mechanism has been devised by some colleagues – this has been debated – in order to prevent incapacity for work from being invoked retroactively. From now on, incapacity for work can only begin from the date on which it was found by a doctor. Minister, my party was not seeking this control mechanism. During the debates in committee, we were able to express our reluctance. We have expressed the need to remain vigilant so that it does not create a problem of application. Recently, however, we received a letter from the National Intermutualist College, which shows that this system – article 53, paragraph 2, of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 – poses many problems of application. I will not mention them all, but these problems are quite serious. We received a letter from the UCM dated 11 October detailing a number of situations. In conclusion, mutuals explain that they are unable to implement this provision. They request a further adjustment of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971. They also state that they are not opposed to the principle of the law passed. Minister, do you confirm the difficulties in applying the second paragraph of section 53 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971? Can you develop the way this happens on the ground? In a recently introduced bill, my political group is simply proposing, for reasons of legal certainty, that Article 53(2) of the 1971 Royal Decree should be repealed. What do you think of this solution? Our proposal was a little broader. One could imagine a restorative law that would only do that, so as not to reopen the debate on other elements concerning the days of failure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u17	Madam President, Minister, the context has just been set, I will go right to the point. This paragraph 2 poses a problem of fairness since it provides that the period of incapacity for work shall not begin until the date of signature of the medical certificate. This means that the self-employed person suffering from a small health problem, if he or she does not go to his or her doctor immediately, will only be able to have sick leave from that moment when his or her problem is previous. Retroactivity exists for employees. The National Intermutualist College, joined by the UCM and the SNI, points to the negative effects for the self-employed, thus pushed to go to their doctor much faster, including for small things that do not require consultation. Paragraph 2 of article 53 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 should be deleted. Let's do it, even in day-to-day business, in the smartest way between government and Parliament. Since there are three of us to question, why don't we urgently table a small common text?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u18	It would then be a restorative law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u19	Indeed, to amend the royal decree. We should move it forward and then have it voted. That is the purpose of my request, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u20	Madam President, discussions are already going well, that is a good sign. There is a real will to find solutions. Mr Minister, I am not going to repeat what my colleagues have said, as they have pointed out the problem. On the other hand, I have already questioned your colleague, Minister De Block. Indeed, these skills are in your portfolio and his. We all wanted to do well. We enthusiastically supported the bill that was passed in the last Parliament, reducing the waiting period for the self-employed. We are even seeking to reduce it even further, so that there is no longer any difference between workers in this country, whether they are employed or self-employed, in the face of the disease. We think this is important. A first step had been taken. But it must be noted that there are great difficulties on the ground. You have all received letters from the UCM, UNIZO and the National Intermutual Council. It shows that some provisions pose real problems on the ground. This is the device that my colleagues have mentioned, in relation to the doctor's certificate. For us, it is important to correct this injustice. We are making a breakthrough in the social law of the self-employed, but in concrete terms, some of them cannot benefit from it. This is also an injustice in relation to the treatment of employees, who can, from the first day of effective cessation, have access to the allowances. For us, this provision needs to be amended, as is required by all stakeholders. Your colleague De Block replied, a week ago in committee, that she was consulting the sector with you and that she would then take an initiative during this month of December. So we don't have much time left. Minister, what is the status of these discussions with the sector and with Mrs De Block? We have tabled a bill No 55074 which reviews this system - and which is quite open to co-signature. The goal is to work together. But as we felt an emergency, we have already tabled a text. As I said to your colleague Mrs De Block, if you are already solving the problem in practice with the associations on the ground, this will be the most direct and effective. If we can be useful at parliamentary level, a text is ready and open to co-signature and discussion with colleagues. The important thing is to solve this problem very quickly. In the face of the disease, there is no question that any worker, whether employed or self-employed, is in difficulty. We all intend to make the system as effective as possible. Minister, what do you intend to do? What is the status of the discussions, the action that Mrs De Block has announced and that you are going to lead together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u21	Madam Chair, Mr. Delizée, Mrs. Fonck, Mr. Vanden Burre, thank you for your questions. It's pretty fundamental. Finally, we are talking about the inequality that persists in our country today: in the face of illness and pain, self-employed workers do not have the same rights as other categories. It is perfectly scandalous that we have not yet been able to guarantee the equality of the different categories in the face of the disease. I have, of course, taken note of the letter from the Belgian Intermutualist Council, which echoes the implementation of the law of 22 May. Finally, this law has been taken, and it is a good thing. A step has been taken. But it is probably the fact that it was taken in this way at the end of the journey that has made it need to be corrected today. I naturally want, and I did at the time, to point out the important step that had been taken in the unanimity of the groups, if I remember correctly. As a reminder, we had, under the last legislature, at my initiative, reduced to 14 days. This is a week away. But the objective is clear. This must be brought back to the first day of illness as soon as possible. In relation to this, I would also like to call for a common reflection on this objective which we must determine together. The government is in the mainstream business. I appreciate that you highlighted this aspect. Madam President, we sometimes receive questions asking ourselves, as ministers in day-to-day affairs, about political acts that we are not in a position to carry. In this case, we are not in a position to solve the problem completely because we are in the business of doing business. And it is in cases as urgent as these, relating to the equality of the categories before the disease, that we must remember that it is essential to have a government as soon as possible. There are two limits to the law: no compensation for stops of less than eight days and a measure that some have described as anti-abuse, in a somewhat clumsy way, providing that the beginning of incapacity for work could not be fixed by the doctor-counsel at a date prior to the date of the certificate. These two limitations are problematic. Together, we can only agree with what is noted by the Belgian Intermutual Council and ensure that a solution is found as quickly as possible. As I told you, a government in day-to-day affairs prevents us from resolving the whole problem through a royal order. I have contacted my colleague, Maggie De Block, so that, on one aspect of the problem, we can make a decision in everyday affairs which will allow us to solve part of the problem, the one related to the limitation at the beginning of the incapacity for work and make it inapplicable in case of prolongation or relapse for the same disease. As far as the other aspects are concerned, as the day-to-day affairs are concerned, it is at the outset of the House that we must make the decision on the full changes and corrections to the situation. I also consulted the MR Group. Here I hear a willingness to work together to correct what needs to be. Of course you can also count on me with the help of my administration to bring the legal, legal details that might be useful to the work related to the filing of this proposal. I naturally stand by you and support any initiative in this regard. I will, moreover, sign, as a parliamentarian - you know that we are both a minister and a parliamentarian - if you give me the opportunity, the amendments aimed at correcting this mistake, while waiting together to create equality for wage-earners in the face of the disease, the aim being that they are as well "housing", if we can say, on the first day, that the other categories of workers are, today, in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. The history of the question has been reworked in committee. Inequality actually persists. This debate was held a few months ago. Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is inequality during the seven days, not just the first day. In addition, there is an amendment of the Vld that has been supported by other parties. In doing so, the procedures are different for one self-employed worker and another. This is something that needs to be corrected. On the other hand, at the end of the journey, if the situation had not been the one we knew, there would have been no law. I would remind you that at the outset there was the proposed Di Rupo et al. I doubt that, outside this particular context, this text could have moved forward. As you know, it was about prevention, etc. We have had a period during which Parliament has regained more autonomy and freedom to hold debates and seek consensus. History now gives us reason because we had expressed all the reticences that were at the time in question. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, we are prepared to participate in a working group or, in any case, to introduce a law, as I called it, restorative - but it could be called otherwise - to amend that part of the law so that the procedures are acceptable to both the independents, as well as to the administrations, the INAMI, etc. In any event, like you, I believe that we must continue to follow the consensus logic that has allowed us to move forward, otherwise we will not be able to achieve results.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. I make a statement and will submit a proposal to you. First of all, I am pleased to note that the speakers unanimously support the deletion of paragraph 2 of section 53 of the Royal Order of 20 July. In my view, it is indeed extremely urgent. Such action must be possible, even in day-to-day business. I understand that the government does not wish to take the initiative, although no recourse - in my opinion - would be brought if the order were amended. This will therefore be done through legislation. If a government in day-to-day affairs can decide to mobilize $35 billion for a national Energy-Climate plan, I think it's also capable of amending a royal order - but it doesn't matter. Secondly, I suggest that we can quickly agree either to table a new text or to rely on an existing text in a working group. Madam President, I would like to plead for its inclusion - after it has been amended or taken into account - on the agenda of this committee. We will have no more time this week, but we will be able to devote ourselves to it as early as January. So we won't have to hang out anymore. Self-employed people continue to get sick without being treated in the same way as employees. This lack of equity must be rectified. Health remains a priority in terms of balance between the different statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers. I take it that you are arguing that there is no longer any difference in treatment between self-employed and wage-earners in the face of the disease. With respect to the amendment to the legislation that we voted at the end of the last Parliament, we have tabled a text that reflects the requests we have received. I would be happy to discuss this with my colleagues. I therefore propose that we gather around a text that has already been taken into account. As ecologists, we are determined to find solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u25	At our meeting on 7 January, we could put on the agenda a series of things that we had not anticipated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u26	Madam President, Minister, it was learned some time ago that CPAS in large cities are experiencing virtual bankruptcy. This situation is all the more worrying as the number of people benefiting from social integration income (RIS) has continued to rise in recent years. We're talking over 35% in five years. The municipalities must therefore compensate for this by increasing their allocation. However, the latter do not have an extensible budget. There is an urgent need to find ways to counter the problem. It is unthinkable, in fact, to have to resort to the opposite option of reducing the service by limiting social assistance. That would be catastrophic. As Alain Vaessen, Managing Director of the Federation of CPAS, pointed out, CPAS could be forced to limit certain supplements granted mainly to so-called poor workers, aid for the purchase of a pair of glasses, green classes or the payment of energy bills, i.e. a series of costs that people no longer know how to face today. CPAS therefore request an increase in the federal reimbursement rate for the RIS paid to CPAS. They then ask for the thawing of certain funds, such as the Gas-Electricity Fund, for example, which allows CPAS to help people who encounter difficulties in paying their energy bills. Minister, what measures are you planning to address this problem? Are you considering – finally – a federal refinancing of the CPAS?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u27	Madam Chair, Member of Parliament, I share your interest in this extremely important issue, namely the ability of our CPAS to meet with their missions. They are on the ground every day to reduce poverty and poverty in our country. I am attentive to their financial situation and their difficulties. However, I will bring some objective elements in relation to what has been reported and declared. The truth is, MP, the federal staffing has increased. I quote a number of figures, but as you know, the federal government is not the only level of authority to contribute to the action of the CPAS. It is not up to me to make the calculations on the evolution of communal or regional contributions, but I can tell you again that at the federal level this has increased. Each level of authority must take responsibility. The federal government sometimes has a good back, Madam, in relation to statements and realities. Taking the figures on the right to social integration, the number of beneficiaries actually increased until 2017. Why? Because the asylum crisis has gone through this, as well as the effects of limiting the integration allowance. Since then, the increase has slowed down quite significantly, although much work remains to be done. The federal government, during the last legislature, provided structural resources to the CPAS. No less than an additional €370 million has been mobilised in five years for social integration policies. More than EUR 200 million has been injected to support the staff costs of CPAS. Nor should we forget the increase in the RIS nine times in the course of the parliamentary term, i.e. a budgetary effort of EUR 132.5 million. In addition, the intervention in personnel costs per file processed increased by 61%. It had not been reviewed since 2007. You'll probably have noticed that I'm someone who's looking for dialogue. You know that the appropriate minister holds meetings with CPAS federations on a monthly basis. Thus, on 23 October, following Mr Vaessen's statements, I organised a meeting with the CPAS federations. We agreed on one important thing: we will produce a report that is objective and identifies the different causes of the financial deterioration of certain CPAS, as well as an objectivation by all, including CPAS federations, of the efforts that have been made by the federal authority. As you may have seen, the Union of Cities and Municipalities has already published a first report which shows, for example, that the communal contributions did not follow the federal increases. I don't want to throw the stone at them, it's just a statistical observation. The idea is not to find someone responsible either. The idea is to make admit that the federal level has done a lot and must continue to do so. If there are financial and budgetary problems in some SAFs, the burden should not be placed strictly at the federal level. As I was telling you, he sometimes has a good back. Each level of authority must take responsibility. At this point, as I have indicated to you, the CPAS federations and my administration are working and contributing to objectiveizing the federal contribution and responsibility. We do so quickly because we know the need to work as quickly as possible. We're talking about a social emergency. It is an objective mistake to bring responsibility for the situation of some CPAS at the federal level. I'm telling you with strength.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u28	Minister, thank you for your specific answers. As you said, CPAS are on the front line to fight poverty. As a local agent, I am very attentive to it. It is true that this concerns several entities. These are indeed transversal matters, and as you said, each entity must take responsibility. My question didn't say it was all the federal fault. You have put additional means, but you have also said that these means are not always sufficient, since today the people who work are below the poverty line as early as the 15th of the month. And they are normal workers. They can't finish the month. I mentioned a few examples earlier. For their children, they must apply for assistance through CPAS. The municipalities also have difficulties, as is well known, in closing their budgets. They must overcome the difficulties in increasing the endowments of CPAS. You really have to be careful about it. There is an explosion of complementary social assistance. The rate of repayment of integration income should be increased. Today, it is between 60 and 70 per cent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u29	Member of Parliament, I'll join you. I said I was a man who thought the solutions were in dialogue. The report we are producing can be a good basis for work so that our social policies, as far as the CPAS are concerned – each level of power with its responsibility and autonomy of decision-making (city and communes, regions, federal) – can be more concerted. We would have everything to gain from putting ourselves around the table to address these social emergencies that some of our citizens face brutally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u30	Minister, what I'm about to tell you is related to a number of returns from the field regarding service titles and their validity, service titles that help the motherhood of independent mothers. We know how challenging it is to welcome a new member into a family, all the more so as an independent member. It's a challenge for everyone, but when you're independent, it's probably even more complicated. At present, social insurance funds grant 105 free service vouchers to young mothers who are subject to independent social status and who then resume their professional activities. The aim is to help them in their daily tasks for 105 hours. This mechanism is very positive. The application may be made from the sixth month of pregnancy until the last day of the fifteenth week following delivery. However, the period of validity of service certificates varies according to the Region: 12 months in Flanders, 8 months in Wallonia and 6 months in Brussels. The problem is that this period of validity raises questions. Why are the time limits that a mother can have different depending on the Region? In addition, if mothers wish to extend the expiry date of the service vouchers, they must pay one euro per service voucher. This mechanism seems amazing, even challenging. Minister, do you intend to discuss with your regional counterparts with a view to extending this deadline or bringing it to what Flanders is proposing, namely the most advantageous period of twelve months? It would be a matter of common sense. How many requests for exchange of service certificates, by mothers or co-parents on maternity leave, were made in 2017, 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u31	Mr President, in September 2007, on my initiative, 105 service certificates were automatically implemented for young mothers who have been subject to independent social status since the reform of the State. As you know, the regional authorities are fully competent in the field of service certificates. They can therefore draw up their own regulations completely autonomously and thus define their own priorities. This applies in particular to the period of validity of service certificates. These are exclusive powers of the Regions with respect to the duration of service titles. In this context, I wrote to my Walloon counterparts, Christie Morreale, and Brussels, Bernard Clerfayt, asking them to make the necessary arrangements for the validity of service certificates. As for the numerical questions you are asking, I also invite you to raise awareness, through your Ecolo relays within governments, that this can move quickly. I wrote to them. Joint actions can still speed things up. As far as the figures are concerned, the competent issuing company, Sodexo, tells me that I received 353 applications for 14,753 service titles in 2017, 467 applications for 18,242 service titles in 2018, 419 applications for 18,247 service titles since the beginning of 2019. In this latest statistic, we obviously do not cover the whole of 2019. There is an increase in demand. I do not think that this is solely related to an increase in the birth rate, but rather to an awareness of the measure. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the cost of exchanging paper-based services is currently one euro in Brussels and Wallonia and fifty cents in Flanders. The exchange of e-services is already free in Flanders. The competent issuing company, Sodexo, has confirmed to me that as of 1 January 2020, this cost would also be free in the other two Regions, which is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u32	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I will relay to my colleagues at the Walloon level. There is a difficulty on the ground and as much align with the Region which gives the most rights, namely the twelve months granted in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u33	As you have also mentioned, the subject of poverty among the self-employed is a subject that appeals to us all and to us all. This is a figure that is not well known to the general public, although I have no doubt that you know him, minister. It is often thought that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are in an easy situation where they make a comfortable living. Unfortunately, the figures show the opposite. In 2017, 21% of the 722,941 self-employed mainly in Belgium earned less than €1,139 per month. This amount represents the European poverty line for isolated people. Today, 157,692 self-employed persons earn less than 12,500 euros per year. This is well below the poverty line of €13,668 per year for an isolated person. This represents 21.5 per cent of all self-employed persons in their main capacity. These figures not only represent a significant number of self-employed workers, but also increase. This is a real concern for environmentalists. This is a taboo to break around those who are embarking on business projects in our country: it is indeed difficult and many of them are in a very precarious situation. I know that measures have already been taken, particularly in relation to social status. However, what concrete measures could be envisaged to address this problem in the future, notwithstanding the fact that we are in the business of day-to-day business – that does not prevent reflection in the committee? Are you able to provide figures – if they exist, we haven't found one – about the income of our country's independents, by sector? It would be interesting to see whether in certain specific sectors incomes were lower, who would deserve more precise political action? Do you intend to relax the conditions for granting the bridge right, which allows the self-employed person who ceases to be employed to benefit from certain income for a maximum of two years? This has been expanded in the previous legislature and we welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u34	We have already dealt with this issue and, indeed, we must continue to talk about it because, as you say, this subject is very often ignored. We must end this myth and caricatures of the rich self-employed. The SNI figures indicate that 20 per cent of the self-employed live below the poverty line. Everyone needs to realize this, both public opinion and other parties. I repeat a figure which I believe is extremely reliable and which expresses the urgency of continuing to work on these issues: the EU-SILC figure (European Union statistics on income and living conditions), which covers all the incomes of independent households and sets the proportion of self-employed people living below the poverty line at more than 15%. It's huge! How huge it is to hear our anti-poverty services tell us that 2.1 per cent of independent households face severe material deprivation! I am working for the MR on projects for the independents and on the preparation of fact sheets defended by the MR in the framework of a future government agreement. In my view, it is essential for the next government to give greater support to the poor self-employed as well as to the poor workers of our country. It's important. In our country, we need more reward for work whether we are self-employed, wage earners or civil servants; there are poor workers. I assure you that I will not be able to participate in an exercise in the next government if its roadmap does not include strong commitments to poor workers and self-employed people. The extension of the bridge right is an axis (alongside others) that we propose. This trail will be necessary to meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I was pleased to hear what the state of your thinking is. I know that at this point, we can't do much more. But this is important because – and I would insist on this – this subject is far too little highlighted. Yet it is fundamental and, above all, the number of self-employed people living in poverty is growing in our country, while the total number of self-employed people is also increasing. So we're facing a real problem. For environmentalists, this is a priority concern. In doing so, we will position ourselves as partners when it comes to finding and supporting measures to improve the living conditions of these independents and to get them out of the precarious situation. We will also make proposals in this area. For this theme, it is important to find solutions by overcoming our political differences. It is, in any case, a subject that we will put on the table, but also within the framework of this parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u36	It's 11:33. Mr. De Backer's here. I propose that we end with Mrs Van Peel's question. [[...]] Otherwise, we risk abusing Mr. Backer. Madam President, if some members want to turn their oral questions into written questions, I have the answers here. From the outset, I can transmit them to them if they wish to obtain them immediately, instead of having to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u37	Question No 55002180C by Mr Goblet is then transformed into a written question, as is Question No 55002002C by Mrs Lanjri. For the rest, Minister, there are, among other things, joint questions. Can we consider making an appointment in the course of January? That seems important to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u38	Madam President, it will be even with pleasure!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u39	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u40	Minister, this question again deals with a fairly striking difference between the regions. You won't be surprised if we zoom in on that. A while ago, you decided to add an extension of 10 % to the living wage for each wage earner who starts a GPMI for up to one year. The aim was to compensate and encourage the OMCW's that are committed to the GPMI. In the first place, additional staff were needed. According to a report by the POD MI, it is not surprising that most of the grants go to personnel costs. However, the report also shows that there are a lot of differences between the OMCWs in the three regions as regards the subsidies going to activities. For example, the Flemish OMCW funds 72 percent of the resources for vocational training for wage-earners, so that they move faster to the labour market. In Wallonia it is only 38% and in Brussels it is 57%. The Walloon OMCWs seem to spend a larger share on transport, driving licence fees or transport subscriptions, and cultural and social activities, such as workshops. In turn, the Brussels OCMWs are looking more at childcare costs. Cultural and social activities can promote social integration. That is not wrong, but it is striking that the Walloon and Brussels OMCWs have a less labour market-oriented approach than the Flemish. The main aim of the GPMI is to reintegrate a wager into working life or to integrate it into society. I wonder whether the subsidies are being used in the right way everywhere. Minister, how do you explain these differences between the regions? What are the reasons for this? Is this about objective factors, or is it more political?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel, first of all I would like to say that the additional 10% grant under the GPMI is intended to produce a qualitative and individualised project tailored to the beneficiary. This requires social workers. The subsidy therefore serves primarily to provide the necessary staffing hours. Of course, guidance to the labour market is also part of the tasks of social workers. As you indicate, the bulk of the subsidy therefore goes to those staff costs, in particular 92.9 %. This allows social workers to develop a truly individualized project for the benefit of the living wager. The percentages to which you refer regarding the use of resources for vocational training should also be taken into account. We see that in each region, in addition to staff costs, the resources for vocational training are the most important. In Flanders we see that of every 100 euros, 93 euros are spent on staff costs and 5 euros on vocational training. In Wallonia, this is EUR 91.1 and EUR 3.4 respectively and in Brussels it is EUR 97.2 and EUR 1.2 respectively. The report by my administration, which you mentioned, shows that there are mainly differences according to the size of the OCMW. It appears, for example, that in all major cities of the country the resources which are not used for personnel costs go exclusively to vocational training, while the small municipalities also pay attention to social integration or transport costs. This is a logical reflection of the different local needs. The reason seems to be the size of the OCMW rather than its geographical location.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u42	Thank you, Minister. I find it a strange explanation that it would be about the size of the OCMW, because I do not think there would be any less large in Flanders than in Wallonia. I understand you're saying that the vast majority goes to the staff. That's right, that's the most important use. However, I found the difference to be quite significant, especially when one knows that there are not only twice as many labourers in Wallonia, but that even from the start at an OCMW they rely on the living wage there for much longer than in Flanders. Here again, the difference in guidance is seen: on the one hand, there is much more focus on the labour market than on the other. This also has to do with the integration of the GPMI. I remember the discussion from the previous legislature on your expansion of the GPMI. At that time I noticed very strongly that something that was considered very positive in Flanders was almost not done on the other side of the language border. We must continue to follow that approach, but I understand that you are a bit politically concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your presence. We now welcome Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u44	Madam President, Minister, in 2018, the social inspection auditors checked 632 carwashes. The latest figures, which have also been published in the media, show that this sector is and remains a major concern. As many as 425 infringements were detected. That means two out of three hand car washes don't comply with the law. A total of 994 employees and 600 self-employed persons were audited. This involved 655 cases of undeclared work. You are of course aware of the problem and have already taken action to tackle fraud and exploitation in the sector more severely, including by increasing the number of controls. The figures also improved, in 2016 a quarter of the audited carwashes were not in order. Now those numbers are going up again. The fact that you're checking will not be strange. Besides, it's not just undeclared work. There is also trafficking in human beings in the sector. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What policy conclusions do you think should be drawn from the figures of recent months and years? What do you think are the main reasons why the hand car wash sector is so susceptible to social fraud? In the media there is talk of carousels of domestic and foreign companies. Can you explain more about what constructions it is specifically about? What do you think are the reasons for the increase in the figures? I know that you are closely monitoring and monitoring this. Are there any concrete actions planned for the hand car wash sector, both in relation to undeclared work and trafficking in human beings? What are the consequences for a hand car wash where fraud has been detected? Are other measures possible to make undeclared work in this sector unattractive, among other things?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u45	It is true that when I joined the various inspection services we sat together and looked very carefully at which phenomena are very disturbing in the economy. There is, of course, the great international social dumping to which we give priority. In large cities, however, the small shops and car washes and hand car washes appear to be above that. That is why this is one of the priorities in the action plan against social fraud. You mentioned the figures: 632 checks through the SIOD and 425 infringements through the common actions in both sectors: carwashes and hand car washes. I've listed for you the numbers of who controls what. Some services are more involved, others less involved. We continue to make this a priority because we often see criminal networks linked to trafficking in human beings and undeclared work behind it. That is why we continue to work on this. The fines and the rules of the game are clear. When people are caught, the penalties set out in the Social Criminal Code are applied. Sometimes these are administrative fines and sometimes judicial sanctions are also issued, especially in the case of multiple infringements. There is, therefore, a proper policy of sanctions in this area, which, for example, in repeated cases, is still sometimes aggravating. In this respect, therefore, there are adequate means to implement this. We note very clearly in this respect that the increase in the yields we have achieved in recent years is beginning to create a deterrent effect. The reason for the increase is therefore mainly the focus that we are focusing on. We are really trying to get things like this out. We are also trying very well to consult with local authorities to prevent such cases from being opened or closed in the event of infringements. That's our policy. One cannot keep checking. In the long run, it's just gonna have to shut down when there's more than one infraction. That is why cooperation between the services is essential, not only the social inspection services, but also the local police and environmental officials. They give us an input that allows us to deal with the crooked businesses more and more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answer, although you have not answered some of the questions I have asked, which is a pity. I am referring in particular to the question of which policy conclusions can still be drawn from your experience over the last few months and years. You did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u47	Madam President, Mr Anseuw, there is the fact that the reform of social inspection services is working well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u48	Madam President, Minister, you want more of the same, despite the fact that together we find it a very challenging sector and remain in the fight against social fraud, among other things. However, you state that nothing needs to be changed, but that the government simply needs to continue. I fear that attitude will not be enough. In that case, we must keep checking week after week. However, after a number of years of policy, which you have designed in this area, it is useful to take a step backwards to see if other regulatory measures can be taken. That is why I asked you whether you could explain the constructions that are being set up. The answer to that question could also cover the question of which policy conclusions can be drawn for the future. However, you cannot answer me in this respect. Of course, you are free to do so, although it is somewhat unfortunate. After all, I recognise that efforts have been made in recent years and that the focus, to which you referred, has indeed been and is there. The question is how long we have to go on in the same way. Isn't it useful to look at what is politically possible? That was the most important part of my question, and that is why I am sorry that there has not been an answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u49	Mr Anseuw, I would be more than happy to answer that. One of the things we have done is to strengthen cooperation with local services. Antwerp, where I live, is a good example of that. In the past, things were left open and fines piled up. Now such things are simply closed down. Together with the mayor of Antwerp, we have put this very clearly on the market. It is also one of the achievements of the reform of the social inspection services that we are constantly monitoring. We look at what new phenomena arise and what new constructions are being made. At the RSZ, at the level of the SIOD, a specific study service was set up precisely to map out these new phenomena. I therefore believe that a great deal has already been done in this area. The rule that no one is allowed to drive through the red, does not prevent driving through the red light. Therefore, we will also have to enforce. In this respect, we have recruited additional inspectors and the information is better shared. I therefore believe that many steps have been taken in this area too. On the one hand, we must lay down rules to ensure that everything is done correctly, and on the other hand, we must not stop entrepreneurship from doing that by using rules to prevent anyone else from doing that work. We are constantly looking for this balance. If there are rules, then we must be able to enforce them. On paper, we can come up with as many rules as we want, if the inspectors cannot enforce those rules, then nothing has yet been resolved. In Brussels we also looked together with the tax authorities at constructions. A lot of steps have been taken to remove so-called ghost companies, fictitious companies. This is mainly done through data mining and data matching, in which we also invested during the reform of inspection services. There is much more digital exchange and digital analysis taking place. We even use EAI to determine which companies should be controlled as a priority. Regular, rapid removal of companies and companies is taking place. I have worked out the policy for this with Minister Jambon at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your addition. Allow me to continue with that. You've made an analogy with driving through the red light. I'm comparing it to a zone 30. It is true that it is not enough to place a sign at the beginning of the street to indicate zone 30, to prevent people from driving faster than 30 kilometers per hour. For this reason, it is indeed important that the introduction of a zone 30 also adapts the infrastructure, the road image, the road profile. It may also have to do with street furniture, but before we go too far in the details, we need policy conclusions for the future. What should we do about this so-called infrastructure in which entrepreneurship is indeed indeed going to surprise you that I fully agree with this and that I should be given the necessary freedom? It is certainly not the intention to stop entrepreneurship, but it is the so-called infrastructure that is involved in this case in terms of designing regulations and adapting them where necessary or possible so that fraud becomes even more difficult than it is today. That was the thrust of my question. You have cited a number of examples of cooperation with local authorities, among others. That cooperation is important. The city where I live, Ostend, is a lot smaller than Antwerp. We have a metropolitan problem on a smaller scale, but it is the same. I recognize them very well, but when we talk about the proverbial infrastructure of zone 30, in the context of enterprise, a social fraud, what conclusions can be drawn from it? I conclude from your answer and add that there is still a need for some thinking. That is not a problem in itself, but it is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u51	Mr Minister, Article 222 of the Law of 25 April 2014 inserted a second paragraph in Article 162: "The minimum and maximum of the criminal fine or administrative fine shall be multiplied by 12 if, on the one hand, the minimum applicable in the sector in question is not paid to the employee - or, in the case of part-time work, the part of the minimum wage due in proportion - or is not paid on the date on which the wage is recoverable, and, on the other hand, two or more infringements referred to in Articles 138, 140 to 142, 156, 157, 163, 165 to 167 or 169." Essentially, that provision means that there is a substantial increase in penalties if the incorrect payment of wages coincides with two or other social criminally sanctioned serious breaches of labour law. This is often a sign of social dumping. Minister, how many cases were used to determine the administrative fines in 2016, 2017 and 2018? I would also like to receive the same information for the criminal penalties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u52	Mrs Kitir, the article has indeed been introduced in order to deal more strictly with social dumping. Indeed, we are still detecting violations of social legislation, especially in the field of posting. That is why major international dumping in transport, construction and other sectors remains a real priority for inspection services. The aim of this is to put wages in order afterwards. Belgium is one of the few countries to do so. That is why the increase has been introduced. That is a good tool in itself, but we can see that the figures I will be able to give you will be relatively low for the simple reason that the legislation states very clearly that it must be about repetitive infringements, which must also be proven. It is very often the question of whether or not to prosecute administratively or judicially. As far as the administrative road is concerned, I can give you the figures, but there are no figures in the case of the Justice Department. So I can only answer part of your question. In view of this recurring point of discussion, we have set up a consultation committee with the SIOD and other services, which should examine when it is appropriate to continue to prosecute administratively or whether there are more serious infringements, which should be prosecuted in criminal matters. That choice is not always easy to make, because the outcome, certainly on the justice side, is not always clear. So I can give you the figures for 2016, 2017 and 2018 on the number of CVs drawn up on social dumping, but only a minority of them are really based on that article, just because it concerns repetitive infringements, which are often over or the company has already been stopped. In addition, the choice between administrative or criminal prosecutions does not always ensure that the case can be followed perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u53	Minister, I will go over the figures. It is a bit crazy, because the scheme was already introduced in 2014. If it turns out that the application of the scheme is very minimal, it may need to be evaluated or improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u54	In reforming the inspection services, we carried out an evaluation of the legislation to see what works and what does not work. We are working on this now, but it will be necessary and you will probably often get this answer in committee and in plenary session to the next government to implement it. However, the work is being prepared. In any case, I agree with you 100% that we need to be able to evaluate the effectiveness of such a measure on the ground: is it working or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u55	Ms. Nawal Farih's question becomes moot. She regrets being unable to be here today and apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u56	Minister, I will make my introduction brief, because we both know the flexi-jobs system, which was extended to the interim sector, trade and pensioners in January 2018. Since then, the number of flexi-jobbers has doubled. In March 2019, the Court of Auditors published a report on the original system of flexi-jobs in the hospitality industry that was quite critical of the displacement and substitution effect. More specifically, the Court of Auditors calculated that 35.3 % of flexi jobs do not constitute additional employment, but is a shift of full-time jobs. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors states that the condition of minimum four fifths of employment is relative, since this condition applies back for three quarters. Apparently, there are employees in a flexi job who didn't work four fifths at the time. Seventeen percent of all flexi-jobbers don't have a four-fifths employment in another job. In fact, 5.5 % doesn't have any employment outside the flexi jobs. In view of that critical report, the Court of Auditors has therefore recommended that this be monitored more strictly, so that one can assess the impact of flexi-jobs on full-time employment, whether there is no abuse of that system and, above all, whether it has the effect of reducing social security revenues. We have already heard this in this committee during the hearings on the financing of social security. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Was monitoring initiated, as recommended by the Court of Auditors, for both the catering industry and the other sectors to which the flexi-jobs have been extended? Has an authority already been entrusted with this task, or has it already done so in advance, and is there a report on the monitoring already available? You have stated that flexi-jobs mainly replace undeclared work, resulting in additional revenue for the government. When I read that report, I wonder what that communication is based on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u57	Mrs Vanrobaeys, thank you for your questions. I have a great deal of respect for the Court of Auditors. However, I have read the report 17 times and I still do not understand it. However, from my background I have received a sturdy course in statistics. I really do not understand the calculations put forward in the report. At the same time, the Court of Auditors itself states in its own report that in all catering businesses with flexi-jobs global RSZ revenues have increased. It also notes that there is an addition of €65 million to additional RSZ revenues collected. The report is therefore full of contradictions in this respect. It is therefore a pity that there is a selective reading of the report. After all, there are detailed figures from the flexi-jobs. From the start of the flexi-jobs in 2015, the RSZ keeps detailed records. All forms of employment in the catering industry are published publicly on the website. Quarterly per quarter, therefore, the evolution of permanent employment, the flexi-jobs and thats can be followed more perfectly. The Court of Auditors is of course based on the flexi-jobs measures. However, it forgets to mention that flexi jobs fit into a whole range of measures taken in previous governments. It is not just about flexi-jobs but also about cheaper overtime in the catering industry, the impact of the business cycle on the catering industry and the increase in purchasing power by, for example, the tax shift. All these elements affect the catering sector. Other specific measures are also relevant. The reading of the Court of Auditors' report is at least bizarre. After all, we have other figures. On the basis of the RSZ measurements, the official figures, we see other trends. For my claim that the undeclared work disappears and is replaced by a number of other white forms of employment, I also base myself on the figures of the RSZ. Between 2015 and today, official earnings in the catering sector increased by more than €500 million or by 25%. Where did that figure come from? That seems to me to be a warning from the sector. There is also a much stronger increase in economic growth. So something positive has happened, namely more employment in the catering industry. The number of full-time equivalents in fixed jobs in the hospitality sector also increased by 13% over four years. That's almost 10,000 full-time equivalents. In addition, the 5,000 FTEs in the flexi-jobs system come on top of that. Many sectors, even in the past good economic climate, would be a sign of such an increase in employment. At the same time, we also know from the figures what such a flexi-jobber does and earns on average. An average flexi-jobber works on average 5 hours a week: 4.5 hours in the catering industry and 5.5 hours in the trade. The average additional income is around 250 euro net to 280 euro in trade. Those are averages, of course, but those are numbers that can count. The criticism that is being heard that these are mini-jobs is not correct. The average wage for a flexi job is more than 12 euros per hour. That is far above the lowest rates of pay in these sectors today. It is seen that this has a very positive impact. Based on the figures and calculations I have seen with the RSZ, I note that the introduction of flexi-jobs and the other measures have resulted in an increase in RSZ revenues, permanent employment and flexible statutes. All the indicators are green. How do we deal with abuses? Of course there are in every system. The catering industry is one of the three most controlled sectors in our inspection services. Part of the shift, to which the Court of Auditors referred, is in the occasional jobs. These are jobs that are going to be carried out two days in a row, for example. The flexi jobs are more fiscally attractive there. One of the points in the Court of Auditors' report was that the flexi-jobs do not absorb the peak moments. What is in the figures? That 75% of flexi jobs are performed on weekends. When I go to a restaurant, it's usually Friday or Saturday. Those are, of course, the peak moments in the catering industry. That is perfectly reflected in the figures. I have great respect for the Court of Auditors' conclusions and figures. I appreciate that work very much, but in this case a number of questions do arise. If I base myself on the hard figures of the RSZ, which have been monitoring everything since 2015, its revenue, full-time equivalents, part-time statutes, I can only conclude that all indicators are green.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The RSZ indeed monitors the revenue and returns, but the Court of Auditors also asked for the displacement effect to be monitored permanently. You didn't answer much of that. The RSZ could also monitor how many people perform a flexi job and have no other employment. We must avoid the end result being that it is everyone for themselves, that everyone has a flexi-job and that people practice flexi-job after flexi-job, so that social security is not built up. For example, there are people who build nothing, not even a pension, and not contributing to social security. That displacement effect needs to be closely monitored. Abuse where people only exercise a flexi job must come out, especially when there is an extension to other sectors or to jobseekers. It has to be full-time jobs. That's what makes the difference. People don't have to be called soon to get home. In some cases, they work on lower sectoral wages and do not build up anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u59	I would like to make a few more points. First of all, you need to take a good look at the status of these flexi-jobs. Those people are building everything. They pay 25% of social security. By doing so, they build up all the rights they have in another job. They're not mini-jobs, they're jobs that respect full social security. I would like to underline this, because that aspect is often repeated. Secondly, people make choices of their own. I am in favour of extending the system, even for the unemployed. The unemployed who have a flexi job today are those who have worked in the previous quarters. These are people who can do so temporarily at the moment, because 80% of employment is needed. It looks at the three previous quarters, but it could also be a stepping stone for people who are long-term unemployed. They could earn 10% or 20% on top of their benefit in such a statute and reconnect with the labour market. That is a debate that the next government will have to hold. So I would stress that these are not jobs where social security or pension is not built up. They do build up a pension and social security, just like in a normal job. They don't do that kind of job on call. They choose to take that job.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u60	Minister, the Program Act of August 10, 2015 restored unannounced home visits to job seekers. We have had many debates in this Parliament in committee and in plenary on the subject, and our group has considered that this is actually a 20-year backwards. On several occasions, during discussions on your policy note, you have stated that "home visits remain an exception procedure for the government". I therefore ask you regularly about the figures and their evolution with regard to this measure. In May 2018, there were 230 such visits. Could you tell me in 2018, quarter by quarter, how many home visits, without prior warning, were undertaken? Can you do the same fiscal year for the 2019 quarters? I indicated the first quarter in my question, but we are at the end of the year. Could you give me these figures for the quarters for which you have the figures? In how many cases did the insured person, who is entitled to do so, object to an unexpected visit to his home? If that happened, what was the decision? How many home visits have resulted in a finding of home fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u61	Mr Delizée, I have the detailed figures, but I will tell you only a few key parameters. In 2018, more than 1,000 home visits took place and 9 people opposed them. One third of the people concerned were in actual violation. The figures are roughly equivalent until the end of the third quarter of this year (since the year is not yet over): there have been more than 1,000 home visits and 5 people opposed them; almost 400 findings of infringement have been drawn up. I can also give you these figures for each quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u62	Minister, thank you. I understand you weren't giving all the numbers here. If I could get your painting, it would allow me to perform a little more fine analysis. So we're at 1,000 house visits a year. And again, 2019 is not yet over. I'll take note of that. In any case, this means that very few jobseekers oppose the scheme or, at least, dare not challenge it. At this stage, I will take note of your answer and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u63	Madam President, Minister, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue of profiling the energy consumption and water data of all our citizens in order to combat social fraud. This is about a debate that I had started with your predecessor, Mr Tommelein, when the law was passed. As far as we are concerned, we find that the system that was put in place by the previous government is disproportionate, unfeasible, ineffective and unjust. We have discussed these various aspects. I refer to the reports of the committee and the exchanges that took place on this subject in plenary. I interviewed you on May 16, 2018. At the time, you told me that the Constitutional Court "clearly said that the law can be maintained, that it is well constructed, that its legal basis is very clear and that its objective is clear and proportional". In other words, everything is fine, Madame Marquise!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u65	I've quoted you. I also told you that you had a singular reading of the judgment in question. Indeed, in some places, this judgment partially nullifies the law and expresses reservations about the processing of personal data. Thus, the Court recalls that "where the needs of an investigation no longer warrant it, it is not reasonably justified to deny the person concerned direct access to and control of his personal data". Minister, what is being done to ensure that, once the needs of the investigation no longer warrant it, the individual concerned can have direct access to and control of his or her data? How are interested parties informed that their data have been collected? Who should they contact in order to have access to their data and control? When is it estimated that the needs of the investigation no longer warrant it? Have you verified that distribution companies and distribution system operators (DSOs) have appointed a data controller and a data protection officer? For the rest, the Court is not the legislator and it is not for the Court to judge the appropriateness of the laws. So there is a great margin of appreciation, but that doesn't make your law a good law. In your response, you indicated that all partners (electricity) participated, except ORES for technical reasons. This obviously raises the issue of equal treatment among all citizens, which has already been discussed many times. I would like to know what these technical reasons are? Does ORES (a major distributor in Wallonia) now participate? You talked about the distribution network operators. But the law applies to distribution companies and DSOs. During the drafting of the law, I had identified nearly 80 actors for electricity, gas and water. This had been confirmed by your predecessor. What about it? Are all these actors involved in law enforcement? Did they all sign their formal approval to participate throughout the country? The law was to be evaluated by 1 June 2018. Has this been done? Finally, how many suspicions of fraud have been detected? In how many cases did this lead to the finding of fraud?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u66	Mr President, thank you for your question on this subject, which we have already discussed on several occasions. I would point out that everything is clearly stated. All stakeholders included must comply with the GDPR. This must work as part of the GDPR. The Privacy Commission is responsible for finding that all organizations are in order. In this case, we have found that these are large companies and sometimes also intercommunal companies which, I think, are in order with the Rules of Procedure. As far as your questions are concerned, every citizen can check his or her energy consumption on his or her own bills. They are often available electronically. The consumer remains in control of his personal data. For the second question, since it is a data machine, the citizen is not informed that his data are compared with those of his allowances, but the practices are the same as those used in the case of other data comparisons in order to verify, for example, whether there is a cumulation of allowances or allowances and income from work. The data are used in very specific cases. In order to gain access to this data, the citizen may apply to the body responsible for the processing of his data, i.e. either the ONEM or the INAMI. GDPR legislation is fully implemented as in each survey conducted by the social security agencies concerned. It is therefore clear who is responsible and to whom the citizen can ask questions. With respect to your fourth question, as in other investigations, the statutory retention period is also applied to these files based on the outcome of the investigation. Specific regulations exist for those services which also have to comply with them in this case. Your fifth question is a good question, but again it is the Data Protection Authority that has to check whether an organisation is in compliance with the European Regulation. This right is very clear and does not belong to the government. This authority has been created specifically for this purpose within the framework of this European Regulation and it is up to it to take action when there are infringements to ensure that it is respected by all. It is true that Ores is not yet taking part in the pilot project for technical reasons of its own. There is a lack of accurate data that is essential for conducting a survey in the Ores databases. That's why they don't participate. Many organisations are indeed involved but most organisations participate in the pilot project via inter-municipal or larger groups. Infrax, Eandis, Sibelga, RESA, AquaFlanders, INASEP, VIVAQUA are a whole group of these smaller organizations. In this context, they are liaising for this project. An evaluation was carried out by the participating partners. I will already give you the figures obtained so far. On the basis of this assessment, it was decided to continue the pilot project in this forum. But if a new government is formed, it can always be discussed to see if it is worth it or not. Maybe my answer would be a little surprising. It is clear that from 2017 to 2018, this energy push has been done, which has so far led to 35 recovered files and 43 files that still need to be recovered. In addition, there is a lasting behavioural effect of almost 200 000 euros per year, due to lower allowances. The total development costs for BCSS were €62 000. There is therefore a clear benefit. In 2019, there was no push, in order to allow the services to finalize their previous files and to estimate whether this is worth it, since these different files must also be completed. This represents total revenue for more than EUR 1 million. Compared to 62 000 euros in costs, this seems to me to be an interesting investment. These results are still limited because the services still have to deal with other home fraud investigations, strengthen and add some information and figures to these different files. It seems to me to have answered in detail your various questions. I hope and think I have answered your questions in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u67	Minister, thank you for your very dense response, to the point that it requires me to read it in depth. You refer to the Data Protection Authority for compliance with the rules of the GDPR, which was born after the law was passed. It is a satellite body of Parliament. As you exercise guardianship over privacy, I imagine you can also question the Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u68	No, because the European Regulation requires it to be an entirely independent authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u69	All right. So I will follow another line to get the information. Without going into detail, because I am not entitled to a long reply, you tell me that ORES does not participate in the scheme for technical reasons, but raises the question of equal treatment of citizens. We've been saying it all along. The large organizations that bring together the small ones do not seem to me to be very clear. In activities related to electricity or water, there are small communal or intercommunal authorities. Take the example of the Namurese Intercommunal of Public Services (INASEP): it does not exercise jurisdiction in the territory of municipalities which are not affiliated with it - unless there is a special agreement. For me, the full coverage of the territory in terms of water, gas and electricity is a huge job. So we'll never get there. That is why I am not convinced of your answer. I mean, I'm going to the numbers. At the hearings we held, one of the guests told us that we were using a bazooka to kill a fly. We have a very small number of files for a considerable screening of all our fellow citizens. This work actually costs operators, as they have pointed out, with repercussions on the population. Indeed, someone always pays the bill. I mean, I'm reading a scoop. I'm not saying I'm going to tweet it. But an answer on the evaluation, surprising on your part, suggests to me that you might join those who said that it was not very realistic in fact. Maybe it wouldn't be worth it. I don't know if that's what that means. This is a surprising answer from you. Can you tell us more? Maybe it'll be the scoop of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u70	I think we need to continue to evaluate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u71	I read Mr. Minister's answer between the lines, but I think I can guess what's behind it. Thank you for your honesty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u72	Mr Minister, my question concerns a pilot project launched in the fight against residence fraud, in which the RIZIV Administrative Control Office has also contributed. The aim was to detect cases of residence fraud on the basis of data relating to gas, water and electricity consumption in cooperation with the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. As a result, for just over 135,000 euros of unjustified benefits were detected within the health insurance system between 2017 and mid-2019. For 2018 there was an estimated return of 9.5 million euros, I read in the book Social Security of the Court of Auditors. In reality, only 0.05 million would have been realised. In its analysis, the Court of Auditors points out that cooperation between the various actors is extremely important for the successful implementation of this measure and that a thorough data analysis is also needed, which makes it very difficult or would be difficult to implement on a large scale. Firstly, what do you think makes this cooperation so difficult and complex? Which actors should be involved? Secondly, according to your own 2018 policy paper, an evaluation of the pilot project was foreseen before the end of 2018. Can you tell me what policy conclusions from this evaluation can be put forward for the future and how the expected return was calculated? In what way was the effective return calculated? According to the 2019 Policy Paper, the Crossroads Bank of Social Security would not only transmit these data of possible residence fraud on the basis of gas and electricity consumption to the DAC of the RIZIV, but also to the inspection service of the RVA. What revenues were realised through the RVA? To what extent do these correspond to the expected revenues?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u73	Madam President, I also refer to my answer to the previous question, because both questions are partly similar. We did do that push, didn't we? This cooperation is going relatively well. Of course, we also have these agreements between all these different actors. This works well with both the RVA and the RIZIV. With this data mining and data matching, there is an additional tool to detect potential fraud and abuse. It is a tool used to enrich files that are already running and to go deeper into a number of files based on that. It's never the only ground to do anything. We have already been able to analyse a number of dossiers. That has already raised 1.1 million. However, we must wait and see what the final results are. It is still a pilot project, so it will be up to the next government to evaluate whether it is worth continuing with it. For now, we're moving on. We asked the services whether they were satisfied and the answer was yes. It provides additional information and so we have decided to continue it at the moment. We are now looking at ways of simplifying a number of things on the ground. I said earlier, there was a push in 2017 and 2018 but not in 2019. After all, we want to give the services time to see what it is doing, whether it is working properly on the files, whether it is effectively enriching them. Then we can consider whether we should proceed effectively or not. It remains an interesting exercise in itself. It is sometimes very difficult to detect certain types of fraud. That's what you're talking about. You're talking about policy recommendations. We still don't have a database of undeclared work. That would make our lives a lot easier, but she doesn't exist. And so we need to find other ways to try to map out undeclared work and other fraud phenomena. This is one of them. As regards the fight against benefit fraud, for example, we see that we have made huge leaps forward in recent years and that resulted in EUR 94 million in 2017 and EUR 90 million in 2018. By comparison, in 2014, at the end of the previous legislature, this was only EUR 40 million. So we have been able to do more than double in the fight against benefit fraud. However, I believe that this should remain an important focus, for two reasons. Firstly, fraud is fraud, and that needs to be addressed. Secondly, fraud undermines confidence in social security. I mention stories of people who have worked their whole lives and who have only a small pension, while people without doing anything, for example, still receive stamp fees or other benefits. We also need to address such stories from a political point of view, and the fight against benefit fraud is absolutely an important link in getting rid of that feeling of injustice. We need to go further, for example by looking at how we can use digitisation and how we can quickly map new fraud phenomena and identify them quickly in our databases. In this way, we can try to combat such fraud as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I may summarize your answer, you are actually saying that this is a pilot project. Pilot projects mean experimenting and learning on the ground. You say that there are still a few things that are needed for refinement, also in order to roll things out on a larger scale. The Court of Auditors noted that this rollout is not self-evident. Of course, we are also very much in favour of far-reaching data mining, of course within the limits of the legally permissible. I find it particularly interesting to hear that the services on the ground think that the path taken should be continued, but that there is still some work to be done to fine-tune, to say it with a nice Dutch word.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u75	Minister, at the end of 2017, the protocol of cooperation between justice, police and social inspection services was concluded. On this basis, two operational consultation platforms would be set up between police, Justice and the social inspection services, the operation of which would be evaluated biannually. It concerns the Justice Platform, which should, inter alia, optimise the exchange of information and promote the deployment of judicial investigations. In addition, there is the Platform Inspection Services, which aims to facilitate cooperation in concrete fraud cases and to exchange the necessary contacts and other information. Secondly, there would be work on the introduction of a single point of contact, where information could be exchanged and collected by both the judicial police, local police and social inspection services. The Protocol also envisages adapting the Dolsis Platform so that it can also be used for the exchange of data with the police forces concerned. To this end, a protocol would be drawn up in the first quarter of 2018. How often have the mentioned consultation platforms been in practice since their creation? Was there a number of set-up times for consultation? Has that number been achieved? By the end of 2019, the operation should be evaluated in accordance with the Protocol for the first time. Is this currently being done? Can any conclusions be drawn regarding the performance or added value of the consultation platforms? The definition of these two consultation platforms is not so clearly separated. One could interpret that there is an overlap. That is why I would like to get some more information on the practical functioning of these consultation platforms in practice. Are there any overlaps in the different platforms as regards the issues discussed, or is there indeed a clear distinction in terms of operation? Can you give some examples of some important decisions taken, for example by the Justice Platform? As far as the Inspection Services platform is concerned, how many concrete files have already worked with that platform? Has a protocol been worked out regarding that single point or contact? How does this exchange of information work in practice? Finally, do the judicial and local police services already have access to the Dolsis platform today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u76	Mr Anseeeuw, the platform Inspection Services has met 11 times since its creation, including six meetings in 2018 and five in 2019; it has yet to meet a sixth time in December. So we have done what we have agreed. The Justice Platform has also met twice a year, as proposed. The feedback we get from the two platforms is always part of the discussion on the SIOD Strategic Committee, on which the different policy cells are also present. For example, it was recently decided to step up the preventive phenomenon analysis in the Justice platform in order to respond more quickly to new phenomena. I refer to the discussion just now about nail studios, car wash companies and other similar structures. The Justice Platform specifically addresses the cases of serious organised social fraud, with potential links to other forms of crime. These are dossiers that the judicial authorities are already working on and for which wider cooperation across the boundaries of the judicial field is needed or where the involvement of social inspection services is necessary. That is actually the structure within which one operates. The platform Inspection Services has another objective. This concerns the lighter cases and fraud phenomena, the scope of which is not limited to a judicial area and for which the judicial authorities have not yet been addressed. The members of that platform should therefore explicitly ask for a dossier to be examined to see whether there is added value through a joint or more coordinated approach. There is also the discussion, planning and follow-up of the monthly joint investigations organised by each province in the context of, for example, the fight against social dumping. By responding to new practices, the aim is to strengthen cooperation between the different departments in the different provinces. That works in practice; we see that in the figures. Perhaps there are overlaps, because the two platforms work in parallel, with a different goal, input and finality. I cannot answer the question as to what is being discussed there for the very simple reason that this is part of the confidentiality of the investigation. So I'm not going to go into that. Moreover, there are often very large cases of fraud which can occasionally be read in the newspapers. Until the end of September this year, 116 yards and nearly 500 companies were audited in the framework of social dumping investigations. In this way, we are trying to make this a very important priority again. A police protocol has been tried for a long time, including with a view to the mutual exchange of information between the police and social inspection services. Now there is a lot of ad hoc cooperation at local level, but structural data exchange requires good databases and positive advice from the Supervisory Body on the Police Information or COC. This year we tried to re-establish a protocol, but we received a negative opinion from the COC, after which we discussed again how to conclude such a protocol. Any good data exchange starts with good databases of course garbage in is garbage out, so in that respect and without me specifically targeting anyone, I note that there is still a need to take a step in some areas. All police forces now have effective access to the Dolsis platform, so they also have access to other and new information, which is also used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u77	Thank you for your detailed and very full answer. I can move on with this. Let me ask you a few more follow-up questions, because you have already said interesting things again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u78	Minister, on 13 November De Tijd announced that joint investigation teams of police investigators and members of the social inspection services would be established in all judicial districts. Such research teams are called multidisciplinary research teams or MOTEMs. They are used to detect and tackle organised social fraud. To this end, an agreement was reached between the federal police, the Attorney General and the five social inspection services. On the basis of the Law of 26 March 2014, five of the twelve judicial districts already have such multidisciplinary investigation teams. Minister, does the recently concluded agreement extend the number of multidisciplinary investigation teams to those judicial districts where they did not yet exist? If not, what additional arrangements have been made? The article in De Tijd mentions that in East Flanders alone there is already a mixed team that is structurally tackling social fraud. However, under the law of 26 March 2014, such teams were already established in five different districts. Is it true that this exists only in one arrondissement? If so, what explains the absence of such a team in the other arrondissements, in accordance with the law of 26 March 2014? How can it be avoided that this agreement will continue to remain dead letter in the districts where it should be established in the near future? Are there objective differences between the different judicial arrondissements that explain why the MOTEMs were already established in certain judicial arrondissements and not in others? The multidisciplinary investigation teams, referred to in the Law of 26 March 2014, concern not only cooperation on social fraud but also on tax fraud and ICT crime. Is this also the case for the new investigation teams, or is it just about social fraud? I have another question that is more practical in nature. When submitting the request, the agreement in question was nowhere to be found online. Can I get a copy of the agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u79	Mr Anseuw, my answer to your last question is positive. I'll get you the copy of the agreement later. We have indeed seen the need to strengthen cooperation between social inspection services and justice in the field, not only in certain arrondissements, but across all judicial districts. This cooperation between Justice, the police and the social inspection services is absolutely essential on the ground. At the end of 2017, we concluded the Justice Protocol, which focuses on the intense cooperation between the inspection services and the Justice Department. The protocol on the MOTEMs constitutes the practical implementation of that other protocol. There were already a number of unofficial MOTEMs on the site, in West Flanders, East Flanders and Hainaut. Recently there have also been added in Antwerp and Limburg. For me, it is important that we try to put together ad hoc multidisciplinary teams on the basis of cases to deal with concrete dossiers. It is not so much a question of the structural requisition and transfer of social inspectors to the Justice Department. We are following a more pragmatic approach. It is not intended to send or take people to the other side. The protocol also makes this very clear and clear agreements have been made, but the multidisciplinary approach is essential. That is why it is also important for people to be able to work together from their services, where they build expertise in their matter. If that were to happen from the beginning, we would have a dilution of competences. It is the right strength in those competences that can improve cooperation in the field. The multidisciplinary teams have always existed in one way or another. The SIOD actions are an example of this. We have said that we want at least 10,000 checks per year in joint teams. We'll get it effortlessly. We are even encouraging and increasing them, but the difference between the functioning of these arrondissement cells and the MOTEMs lies precisely in the fact that actions carried out through hit-and-run controls, which are really on the ground, are aimed at establishing agreements on how to deal with a specific dossier on organised social fraud. This will enable such a multidisciplinary investigation team to be set up in each judicial district with specialized detectives from the federal judicial police and inspectors from the competent inspection services for concrete files at that time. They will therefore agree with the labour inspector and with the investigating judge on how to deal with a dossier. That is, of course, a much more flexible way to use people and resources and to agree on timing. So these agreements give much more flexibility. By making this operational, we have implemented the same structure in all judicial districts. This allows us to respond in a very fast and flexible way to new phenomena, which may be different in the different provinces. West Flanders sometimes has different priorities and needs than anywhere in Wallonia. We need to be able to respond to this in a very focused and specific way. There are therefore no objective differences between these judicial district cells. It is, of course, the case that in the past certain expertise has already been built up and there has been some desire for cooperation. If that's new, of course it has to be a little bit set up. In this respect, it very often depends on the input and how the competent labour auditors and investigators deal with it and what relationship they have with the people on the ground. The purpose of this framework agreement is to tackle this major organised fraud. It is also the focus of the teams to focus on this priority. I have here a copy of the chord for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u80	Do I understand, Minister, that, apart from the 2014 law, the protocol was free to cooperate multidisciplinaryly in a somewhat structured way, and that the protocol's intention is to allow this to happen in all districts? As far as we are concerned, there is no discussion about the added value of multidisciplinary cooperation. That is why one of my questions was how we can ensure that it does not remain a dead letter. It's not because people work together structuredly, that everyone has to do the same everywhere. Each district and each province has its own problems or challenges, although social fraud will not be linked to provincial borders. However, I understand what you mean. Nevertheless, it is important that structural cooperation should take place in all the districts concerned. I'm not sure. That is why I asked for clarification. However, I can see from your reply that the measure was implemented in the meantime, as a result of the protocol, perhaps everywhere. However, that would suddenly seem to have happened very quickly to me. My main concern is therefore the question of how we can ensure that, despite the protocol, the measure in certain districts does not remain a dead letter and multidisciplinary cooperation does indeed take place everywhere. In the other case, this will continue to depend on who sits around the table and how they work together. That is why the structural aspect is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u81	Mr Anseuw, I fully agree with you. That is also why I continue to attend the meetings of the SIOD Strategic Committee and regularly consult with the labour auditors. We are thus getting input from all sides on the effective implementation of the protocols. The major discussions are often about recruiting staff. In this respect, we note that there are differences in different arrondissements. However, this also often has to do with relations between services. In this respect, we try to mediate or give incentives. So we are really trying to monitor very closely whether or not implementation is taking place on the ground. Another aspect that has been on the table for a long time concerns everything related to the under-financing of certain aspects of justice. This sometimes raises questions by the Justice Department, to which the inspection services have to answer that they really are no longer able to do so. Such discussions are indeed taking place on the ground. We also follow them up, both the discussions within the SIOD with the inspection services, in which the Justice Department is also present, and with the employment auditors separately, so that we can really feel what is going well and what is not going well in the field. If there are any problems, we also gather the competent persons around the table to find a solution. So we do not just take note of the problems, we bring people together and let them enter into dialogue with each other in order to find solutions on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic079x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your further explanation.
