ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Soors' 55000785C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u2	Madam Minister, first of all, allow me to congratulate you on your assumption of office. It's starting hard for you, as this story shows! On Tuesday, 8 October, the Belgian company Bicky Burger broadcast on the Facebook social network an advertising image depicting a scene of domestic violence. Despite the indignant comments of the netizens, the brand posted comments defending its campaign rather than removing the image, demonstrating its willingness to make the buzz last as long as possible. This image was finally deleted by Facebook seven and a half hours later. I imagine that the promoters of the campaign rubbed their hands, hoping to reap profits as a result of the controversy they had just triggered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u3	This advertising is particularly shocking in terms of its context. Indeed, since 2017 in Belgium, 97 women have been killed because they were women. In 2016 alone in Wallonia and Brussels, 18 000 complaints of domestic violence were registered. However, we know that not all victims file complaints. This is not the first time a commercial company has undertaken a marketing approach by conveying gender stereotypes that trivialize violence against women. Minister, what tools do you have to counter the spread of sexist advertising? Are you currently in a position to sanction the authors of messages promoting violence against women? Would you be in favour of a strict ban on sexist advertising? Have you contacted the Jury of Advertising Ethics about this case? How many complaints did he receive? What steps has he taken with regard to the advertiser? What sanctions does Bicky Burger face?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Schlitz. I would also like to publicly congratulate our new minister, as I had the opportunity to do on the telephone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u5	Mr President, I would also like to join the congratulations to the Minister. Of course, we are pleased that an additional woman is coming to the federal government, particularly to deal with this issue. Minister, according to the survey carried out by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights in 2014, 24% of women reported having been victims of violence by their partner or ex-partner since the age of 15. In 2014, the Public Prosecutor's Office recorded more than 60,000 cases of inter-partner violence, or nearly 170 cases per day. At the beginning of October, the site "Stop femicide" recorded 37 victims in 2018 and already 19 victims in 2019. In 2018, the Belgian call number Listening to Domestic Violence was composed 15 360 times, which represents an average of 42 calls per day. These figures, if we keep reminding them, are above all a reminder of how important this problem is. For, even so fortunately, we can see a release of the word and an awareness of the matter in recent years, it must be noted today that it is still necessary to continue to intensify our fight against such violence in all spheres of our society. On Tuesday, October 8, a Belgian hamburger company, to which I will not do the honor of quoting it, dared to broadcast an advertisement on Facebook representing a scene of domestic violence. Hitting a woman to better sell hamburgers is simply abject. The image caused a real outcry. In such a way, the violence is totally unacceptable. It was really a very bad buzz. This advertising was finally removed from the social network. Minister, what flexibility do you have to prevent and sanction the dissemination of sexist and encouraging advertising content, or at least trivializing, domestic violence? Have you contacted the Institute for Gender Equality and the Jury of Advertising Ethics in this context? How many complaints have these organizations received? What sanctions does this company face? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u6	Madam Minister, it is sufficiently underlined how reprehensible and shameful the advertising in question is. It has unleashed a whole social debate, because although most people call it reprehensible and shameful, some do refer to freedom of expression. I belong to the group that thinks that the advertising in question cannot be done: it is reprehensible that they use visual art taken out of context to advertise for Bicky Burger. This does not mean that all the paintings on which violence is shown must be shielded, so one tries to conduct the debate, but rather that one should not tear things out of context, as has happened here; here violence has been normalized and banished in order to sell a piece of meat in this way. The figures are well known. An action plan against intra-family violence is still needed. There have been many reports, as there are still a lot of reports of intra-family violence: according to police statistics, there are still 26.643. In addition, there are daily cases of intra-family violence that are not reported. On average, 30 times the victim of blows and injuries must be reported. Thus, banning or normalising such violence is really not the issue. Madam Secretary, what action have you taken? You've probably already filed a complaint with the Ethical Practice Jury regarding advertising. What is the reaction or when can we expect it? Where is the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, which you are preparing and where partner violence has always been a priority, including the roll-out of the Family Justice Centers? Could there possibly be a chapter devoted to the fight against the banalisation of partner violence in advertising? There is no specific action on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u7	Madam Secretary, I too saw Bicky Burger's scandalous advertising campaign on Tuesday morning, in which a woman gets beaten because she didn't bring the right Bicky Burger. It is scandalous that such a thing is still possible today. Fortunately, a lot of people have responded to that. It seems that more than 300 complaints have been lodged with the Jury for Ethics in advertising. It is not the first time that a company banishes violence against women in advertising in this way. What measures can you take in relation to Goodlife Foods? Are sanctions possible? The Ethische Praktijken Jury on advertising declared itself unauthorized, since the company operates from the Netherlands. The advertising has of course appeared on Belgian screens. In view of this element, what steps can you take against international companies that launch such campaigns that also end up in Belgium? The Institute for Gender Equality is investigating whether the advertising campaign violates gender law. Can you explain how far the investigation is going? Are there sanctions? It seems to me that it is also time to look more closely at the problem of violence against women in connection with this advertising campaign. We have seen that you have reacted indignantly to advertising, but there is an opportunity to take more structural measures in the fight against violence against women, not just the advertising that promotes it. The Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence was ratified by Belgium in 2016. In 2019, a report by civil society organisations and NGOs showed that 80% of the articles of the Istanbul Convention are not being implemented enough or at all. Can you confirm the numbers? What measures do you propose to change this? The Institute for Equality between Women and Men is responsible for the coordination, implementation and follow-up of Belgian policies. What budget and resources does the Institute have at its disposal? How many people are employed on files relating, for example, to partner violence? How has human resources policy evolved in recent years? Do you also confirm that subsidies to organisations fighting against inequalities between women and men were completely discontinued earlier this year? Are organisations still subsidised by the federal government today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u8	Minister, I will not go back to the content of this filthy publicity that has really been buzzing. I come back to my questions and to the context that I wanted to stress. This advertisement was the subject of more than 500 complaints to the Advertising Ethics Board. We know that every year, this jury receives between 150 and 200 complaints, for all reasons. That is the extent of the indignation that this type of advertising is today. It is happy because such advertisements have no place in a society that we want to be equal and respectful of everyone. We await the decision of the jury, but this publicity raises questions and deserves a reaction. Firstly, the company may have apologized, but no one is fooled: it was a bad buzz, intended to shock the opinion so that we could talk about the brand. It must be noted that this has worked. In fact, this company is not in the process of being tested. After damaging the image of the woman by referring it to its only sexual dimension, the brand today spreads an advertising that legitimizes and trivializes the real scourge of our society, namely violence against women. These images are a breeding ground for such violence, rooted in a retrograde vision of the woman, according to which she should be punished and beaten if a man so decides. Then we come to tragedies that are neither diverse facts, nor passionate crimes but femicides. Thus, every day in Belgium, a woman dies under the blows of her spouse or former spouse. In Belgium, the CSA and the Advertising Ethics Board may intervene to remove these sexist advertisements, but with broad discretion. As a result, the level of violence or sexism often has to be very high for advertising to be finally withdrawn. Madam Minister, I come to my questions. Should the Sexism Act of 22 May 2014 not apply to advertisements and therefore allow, in the event of an infringement, their immediate withdrawal, in addition to the fines already provided for? Do you consider, like your colleague the Minister of Justice, that femicide has no place in the Criminal Code? In any case, that is what he replied to me in response to a question I addressed to him in the Committee on Justice. When will we finally have official figures on violence against women? Indeed, as my colleague Merckx explained, this is an obligation to which we are bound, under the Istanbul Convention, which Belgium ratified in 2016. What is your assessment of the 2015-2019 national plan to combat all forms of violence against women? When will the next National Action Plan (NAP) be put in place? What will be the main lines of action? Will federated entities and associations participate in the development of this plan? If so, how will these associations be selected? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u9	This concludes the questions on this subject. Madam Minister, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u10	Mr President, my answer will be long. There were a lot of questions. I shall therefore exceed the normal speaking time for the answer to a question. In a context where the fight against femicide and violence against women is a priority in Belgium, Bicky Burger's advertising campaign seems unthinkable and arouses indignation. Like so many others, I was deeply shocked by this image that combines domestic violence with the sale of a product. Meanwhile, this publication has been removed from the web rightly because the violent, sexist and degrading message conveyed by this advertisement makes it unacceptable. To answer your questions, there are several instruments to combat sexism. First of all, there is the law of 22 May 2014 on combating sexism in public space and amending the law of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination between men and women in order to punish the act of discrimination. However, this sexism law does not make it possible to combat sexist advertising, as a victim must be identified for criminalisation. However, advertising is aimed at abstract groups, in this case women as a whole. In this context, it should be examined whether an amendment to the conditions of application of the law is possible and desirable. Secondly, the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men, known as the Gender Act, punishes incitement to discrimination, segregation, hatred and violence against a person or group on the basis of sex. Incitement is punishable by imprisonment from one month to one year and/or a fine of EUR 50 to 1000. I contacted the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which informs me that it has registered some 40 complaints about the advertising campaign broadcast by Bicky Burger. It is currently studying the application of the Gender Law and is independently analysing the follow-up to this case. Thirdly, at the request of Unia and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, the outgoing government has included Article 150 in the list of constitutional articles to be amended by a subsequent government. Why is Article 150 important? It provides that the jury is to be set up for all criminal cases, as well as for political and press crime, except for press crime motivated by racism or xenophobia. All press offences, except those motivated by racism or xenophobia, therefore follow an assistive procedure. This procedure is very cumbersome and very rarely gives rise to criminal prosecution, resulting in de facto impunity for reprehensible sexist hate speech spread in written form. It is therefore very important to amend Article 150 of the Constitution and to provide for a derogation for gender-specific press offences. There's also text in advertising. In this way, it is also regarded as a press crime. The prosecution of such acts will thus be facilitated. Sexist hate speech would therefore be treated in the same way as racist hate speech. Then, the Advertising Ethics Board can still be seized. As a self-discipline body of the advertising sector, it examines the conformity of the content of advertising messages with the rules of advertising ethics based on self-discipline laws and codes. It may either declare the complaint unfounded or issue a notice of reservation, leaving the advertiser, the agency and the media responsible for the action to be taken, or formulate a decision to modify or discontinue the advertisement. For the latter decision, the jury may also ask the advertiser to submit his or her next campaign(s) for pre-release review. To date, the Ethical Practice Jury has received more than 600 complaints concerning advertising. Then what's their jurisdiction? Since the advertiser is a foreign company, the JEP has transferred this to the Dutch competent counterpart, the Advertising Code Foundation. The procedure followed and involving two independent bodies working together also follows the procedure of the European Alliance for Ethics and Advertising. It's not because the JEP passes this on to the Dutch that this wouldn't work. The procedure is therefore under way and we expect results in the coming weeks. The Institute for Gender Equality also offers training on gender-sensitive communication. Finally, my services are currently preparing a new action plan to combat violence against women, following the 2015-2019 plan. This National Action Plan is fully in line with the Istanbul Convention, which was also ratified by Belgium. The previous plan already included measures relating to the media. Civil society is also heavily involved in the development of a new action plan against gender-based violence. The Institute has a very extensive and up-to-date network of organizations working to combat domestic violence. All these organizations have already been invited in writing to provide their comments and observations in the overall fight against domestic violence. This information will be analysed and will lead to an inventory of issues that would be drafted by the Institute. This inventory will then be communicated to all relevant political bodies, which will then take the political decisions they consider to be priorities. The evaluation report of the Istanbul Convention Expert Group, GREVIO, will also be taken into account in the development of a new plan. Now I come to the interim report. Mr Merckx asked to what extent the measures of the convention have already been implemented. Well, we have transposed this into a national plan and for us the implementation of the measures included in it is important. Most of the 235 measures have now been implemented, which is important, and 152 measures are still ongoing today, which is normal, as they are work in progress. 12 more measures had to be launched in 2018 and 39 were already fully completed. This year 32 measures are still to be launched. In short, most of the 235 measures have been launched and what could already be concluded is as well. We are therefore fully engaged in this matter and I believe that we will be able to produce a much better result than the 80% to which you refer, according to which this figure is correct. With regard to statistics on violence against women, I can tell you that the police and the prosecutor's office have a wide range of statistics on this subject. There are also statistics on domestic violence. However, since the sex of the victim is not registered, it is not possible to have accurate data on this subject. However, it can reasonably be assumed that the phenomenon of domestic violence in Belgium affects women in a sustainable and more serious way. As an independent policy body, the Institute for Equality between Women and Men is responsible for the coordination, implementation, follow-up and administration of Belgian policy. A total of 50 people work there. This increase is mainly due to the additional recruitments for the Care Centres after Sexual Violence. My predecessor, Minister Peeters, was able to release a structural funding of EUR 4.5 million for the care centres. This budget is supplemented by 1.5 million euros of grants from the National Lottery, which means that there is actually 6 million euros of funding available. Nine people work in the cell gender-related violence. These staff work on three pillars: sexual violence, partner violence and honor-related violence. Mrs Merckx, as far as funding is concerned, I can tell you that there is still structural funding and very specific funding for Amazone, the Women's Council, le Conseil des femmes francophones de Belgique, the AVG-Carhif and Sophia. All these organisations are important and can contribute to the fight against gender-based violence and do so regularly, but their design is wider. My predecessor has awarded a grant to Punt vzw, a start-up non-profit organisation in Antwerp, which is committed to providing better support for victims of sexual violence. With this subsidy, Punt vzw organises support groups for victims. You can see the different possibilities that exist. We are active in various areas today. We keep our finger on the pulse, also in the coming weeks following the assignments given. I welcome the many questions and I think it is important for us to be able to debate them today. What happened there is in no way acceptable to me. I therefore reacted immediately. We must prepare ourselves, especially in the context of the formation of the government, in order to have strong instruments in the future to combat such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u11	I'd just like to point out that there's a fault in the transmission, but I understand everything's okay with reporting. I am being asked to suspend the sitting. I am inclined not to do so, but I would like to wait a minute until there is more clarity about the consequences of the defect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u12	There is no problem with the integrated report. Everything could be recorded verbatim. I therefore propose that we continue our work and proceed to the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. Attention will have to be paid to the treatment which will be given to this case by the equivalent of the Dutch JEP. They did not feel indignation in the same way as in Belgium. I am surprised by this rule that it is this Dutch body that deals with it, since it is obvious that the campaign was directed towards the Belgian public, since the messages broadcast were in both national languages. I would like to stress that this is a matter of self-regulation of the sector. I have been able to cover some of the responses to complaints in other cases and this does not go far. So I think that this kind of system has its limits. I've seen advertisers indignant in the press and we notice that they're mostly afraid of regulation. I think we're gonna have to tighten the screw at some point. As has been done with regard to the ban on tobacco advertising, I think we could move forward with the Regions on the prohibition of certain types of advertising. That is what we are advocating. The announcement of an action plan is good news. We must not forget to act in consultation with the associations, which have drawn up a relevant report on Belgium's progress in implementing the Istanbul Convention. Many elements can be removed and their contribution will be very beneficial. You say that combating violence against women is one of the government's priorities, but that is not quite the case. It ranks sixth in police priorities after cybercrime, when it is a scourge that has killed 87 women since 2017. I recently questioned your colleague Geens and I regret that he refused to admit the specific nature of the crimes committed against women because they are women. Until we properly identify the problem of femicides, we will not be able to combat them. We insist on that. I'm glad you're ready to discuss the creation of new tools to arm yourself against this phenomenon. We are fully prepared to support you in this mission and discuss it in the context of potential negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your response, your commitment to the fight against violence and your willingness to move forward. The particular case discussed here deserves to be analysed on the intention that lies behind this advertisement. It is obviously not inadvertently that this drawing was published. There was a clear intention to show violence. As such, it is doubly reprehensible. It is not just an image that has been forgotten among so many others. There is a real will on the part of the distributor of these products to do the buzz and enjoy with its burgers. All complaints should be closely monitored and follow-up and possible sanctions should be taken into account. We must avoid letting this go to the water when the media pressure has come back. Furthermore, like my colleague, I welcome the willingness to put in place a powerful instrument to make the fight against violence a real priority in our country. We call for a new inter-federal national plan of strong action to be taken very soon, but above all it must be given financial but also human resources. We welcome the initiatives that are being taken on the ground. Many associations are already fighting today. There are call centres and Family Justice Center projects. We need to be aware of the justice aspects of this case, but there is all the prerequisites! Let us not forget the accompaniment of people on a daily basis, especially in the care services, and the mental health aspect as well. You have to cover a very wide space so that women can dare to talk about it. It's still a phenomenon that we're silent about today. We must be able to talk about it and, beyond the reprehensible fact, we must allow all these categories of people – sometimes there are also men who are victims of violence – to express themselves and offer them a place to do so. More resources, including human resources, are needed to combat such violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u15	Madam Minister, it is clear that you have taken the steps you need to take in this particular case. The JEP may eventually withdraw the advertising, but the company itself has already withdrawn the advertising. You noted that the file was passed on to the Dutch counterpart. The question is, of course, whether they do not have more resources than, for example, the JEP, which until today cannot be punished. Perhaps the Dutch counterpart has more resources to act against the company in question. That element can be examined. We also have, of course, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which can act in court. It must be able to prove that there really is an incentive to violence. The question then is, if the institute considers to what extent this advertising message leads to violence, whether we have any other means of action than through the institute. I'm just making a suggestion on the subject. You have listed all the efforts that have been made in the past legislature. They are certainly considerable. For example, there are the Family Justice Centers and the Care Centers after Sexual Violence. There is also the excellent Istanbul Convention, on which we have based our gender action plan. It is also a good thing, as you say, that civil society organisations are involved and have drawn up their own shadow report. It is perhaps an element to bring forward in Parliament. After all, the Istanbul Convention is the only convention that involves Parliament very literally in the work on the report. Of course, the elections and everything that follows have not yet done so. The committee may be able to hold a meeting to see how far the report stands and what the reaction of civil society is. This will enable us to implement our work better under the Istanbul Convention. In general, a lot of things have happened. You yourself point out a number of gaps, such as in the sexism law and in anti-discrimination legislation. It is a good thing that you are aware of this and that we use everything to ensure that violence against women or intra-family violence is not banned in any way. I wish you every success in your actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u16	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I must note a discrepancy between your explanations and what really happened with regard to the application of the Istanbul Convention. I see two movements there. We note that the organisations fighting against violence against women in the field now have fewer people and fewer resources. That is also clear from the report and I recommend that you read it correctly. Maybe we can talk about it here. The report, which dates from February 2019, literally states that the IGVM has had two savings rounds of 21% of the funds. Since the last state reform, they have lost five employees. Furthermore, provincial coordination platforms on violence against women are no longer subsidised. If you say that the fight against partner violence and all violence against women is a priority, then I believe that we need to strengthen the IGM rather than weaken it, which has happened in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u17	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers. I am very pleased to hear you say that you find it unacceptable to associate violence against women with the sale of a product. This is not a question of freedom of expression, but of a speech which, as you have said, incites violence and which ultimately aims to trivialize a phenomenon which must be combated and not fed. Thank you already for your comments which have been very clear about this. As for the national plan of action against violence, I am also pleased to hear from you that associations, civil society and organizations will be involved in the development of this plan. Organisations which will also be financed, but I agree with the honourable Members that this funding is currently insufficient. Today, there is far too much reliance on the work of associations in combating violence against women. At the same time, they are not given the means to carry out their tasks properly. It is a situation, and it is told to me every day, which ultimately obliges these associations to compete against each other. That is not how effective the fight against violence against women will be. I also stress, in relation to this national action plan, that there is a real need for greater coordination with the federated entities. I'm still a little hungry about this consultation. I come to the limits of the system, both at the level of the law and at the level of the Jury of Advertising Ethics. At the level of the law, you said, several levers exist, fortunately, but they have limits. The law against sexism does not, as such, combat sexist advertising. The Gender Act contains provisions on incitement to violence on the basis of sex. However, it must be determined whether these sanctions are adequate if they are to be applied to large companies. Will these sanctions be adequate? Are they sufficiently dissuasive? Perhaps there is a reflection to be made on that. With regard to the Jury d'éthique advertique (JEP), I think there is a big problem with efficiency. Already because the JEP has no right of initiative. He has to wait for complaints to arrive. Fortunately, these complaints are coming, but I think maybe we could give them more skills. As far as territorial jurisdiction is concerned, I see on the JEP website that the Jury is forced to declare itself incompetent in this matter and to refer the case back to its Dutch counterpart, because it is the advertiser's country of origin that determines the jurisdiction of the Jury. This is unacceptable when we see the outcry that took place in Belgium, because advertising was intended for consumers in Belgium. A lot of leads are to be dug. Minister, I feel your voluntarism and I really count on you to make it a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u18	Mr President, let me be clear, the cabinet, my two predecessors and myself have this competence since December last year, and always in current cases. That is also very clear. Despite the fact that I have only been active as a minister for two weeks, I feel the dynamism in the cell, as well as in cooperation with the administration. I can only commit to ongoing cases today for the next few weeks and months, and I do not know how long that period will last. Both myself and my team will work on effective tools for the future in the coming weeks and months. It will be up to the next government to make those choices. But we, in current cases, are not rushing on the ground, in the sense that we are working fully with the administration and stakeholders to see what we can do in preparation for the next few weeks. I will continue to do so for the next few weeks. That's what I wanted to tell you. Mr Schlitz, I am now a little out of character, but I have never been a great supporter of the JEP. The old-timers in this committee know that. The JEP is an autoregulatory body. In the case of tobacco and alcohol, too, we have often seen that the JEP does not have the right instruments in the context of this regulation. As a Member of Parliament, I have put forward proposals in committee to legally anchor this and not do so by means of auto-regulation. Today this file is handed over to the Netherlands. That's according to the agreement, since the company is based there. I can only tell you that we will continue to follow this up and that we will continue to knock on their door until there is a ruling. This auto-regulation is what it is, but it wouldn't be bad to look at the legal possibilities in the future. I mentioned those legal possibilities. There are legal possibilities under the sexism law. There is also article 150 on press crime. In future, we will also have the legal capacity to strongly condemn matters there. They say this isn't really a priority for me. I've only been a minister for a few weeks, and we're in ongoing business, but I still want to nuance a bit. I have already seen in those two weeks that there are a lot of very good initiatives, for which we are highly praised internationally. I'm thinking about the fight against sexual violence in the care centers, and there are our chat lines. I was asked whether we should not empower people to talk about it. I think this is very important. Of course, this is a more limited field, but many people call it anonymously the first time. There's a real fear of threshold. So we still have a great deal of work to do in this area. However, I believe that a great deal has already happened. Mr Van Hoof, a legal action by the Institute is possible, but you know that it decides independently. The institute is now investigating how it can do that. As a minister, I must respect what the institute will do in this matter. I think it will come to that conclusion, but it has the autonomy to decide and I must respect that decision. Questions were raised about the Istanbul Convention and the National Action Plan. I'd like to answer that. I do not know if it fits in with the work of the committee and the chairman, but if you would like to look further at that, then my cabinet and I will be very happy to cooperate in the coming weeks or months. I believe, Mr President, that these were the most important elements of the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u19	I thank Minister Muylle for her presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u20	Colleagues, I would like to point out that the oldest one of you will have to replace me around 4:45 p.m. when I leave to take my train. Mrs. Jiroflée, it will be you. Thank you very much for that. We now come to the current affairs debate on listeria. Mr Ducarme has already spoken on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u21	Mr President, Minister, we only just had an exchange of views with Minister Ducarme last week. Without wishing to dramatize the situation, I found it striking that he referred directly to you because he did not feel responsible for many aspects. I did not immediately find that a reassuring message, which is why I would have liked to have heard about it. You yourself said last week that it did not make sense to come to that exchange of views because there was no danger to public health. During the exchange of views with Minister Ducarme and the BFSA, it became clear that there have been infections with the same listeria strain in our country. We therefore assume that these infections were due to meat coming from the same factory of Sacrificeman. In my view, therefore, it cannot be said that there has been no danger to public health, but at most we have been lucky with the people who have been infected. It was clearly about persons who were not weakened and strong enough to overcome the infection. Last week, a number of things became clearer, but I also remained left with a number of questions. Can you confirm or clarify how many people the same listeria strain was identified in our country? Last week we were told that these were two. What do you think of the threshold currently being used? Is it relevant, in your view, since the company in question has always been below that threshold in the tests, but there have been infections? Why do you think there was so little information exchanged between the food agencies of the different countries? For example, in the summer there would have been a pulse for possible infections in our country with the listeria strain in question, but no further explanation was given. Do you think this course of action is normal? After all, what do you think of the principle of using so-called phages to treat meat products? Listeria is a very persistent bacteria that is difficult to eradicate. It is possible to develop bacteria that specifically attack the listeria bacteria. This method is already being applied in the United States, among other things, and it has been approved by FDA. This method is already being applied in several other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u22	Mrs Gijbels, I note that you have taken into account the debate we have already had with Minister Ducarme, because the questions you asked do not exactly correspond to the written version of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for finally coming to answer our questions. Although we have already received explanations from Minister Ducrame, we would like to hear from you about the specific facts and events, with your perspective as Minister of Health. Furthermore, it seems that the Sciensano Institute is currently looking at whether there have been victims in Belgium. When will we get the answer? How do you relate potential poisonings in Belgium to the Dutch source of listeria? We learn that in Holland, they use a so-called DNA technique that seems new. We would be interested to know how the strain is analyzed in our home. Finally, we would like to hear from you about the measures taken to remove potentially contaminated products from our businesses. How many products were removed checked? What are the results of these tests? What measures have been taken to inform consumers about the issues at stake in Belgium? Did this happen as planned? How have the collaborations between the Regions, the Communities and the Federal Government, and the collaborations with Holland, happened?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u24	Madam Secretary, thank you for being here. I have a few more questions about timing. I also put these questions to Mr Ducarme last week and he replied that he was not aware until early October. Does that apply to you, too? An initial notification of listeria at Offerman dates back to the end of July and there was even a notification in 2017. Did your services or Sciensano and the Dutch counterpart have any discussions about this? From when did you know? What actions have been taken since then? Is contact with the Netherlands still ongoing? Do you think the contacts have been satisfactory, or do you have recommendations for a different approach in the event of a next crisis? Do you have plans to improve communication flow and cooperation at European level? We are now two weeks after the problem has been announced. Last week we heard from Minister Ducarme that he could not guarantee that at that time there was no more contaminated meat in the supermarkets in Belgium. Has it been mapped out where contaminated meat might have ended up and what route it has followed? Are we quite sure at the moment that all the potentially contaminated food has been removed from the shelves?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u25	Madam Minister, the only question I wanted to ask you was asked earlier by Mr Ecolo's colleague. In the Netherlands there is a DNA technique to situate the source. To the representative of the BFSA I asked whether it is possible to find that source here too, to which he replied that it was very difficult. Don't we have that technique? What makes this search so difficult?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u26	The next question to be addressed was Ms Tillieux's, but she is not present. As this is a topical debate, members who wish to speak will be able to do so. I would like to make it clear that all the questions we have just heard were tabled before the exchange of views with Minister Ducrame. That is why they have been reformulated or clarified. We are now addressing the issues introduced after this exchange of views.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you very much for coming. Last Wednesday, I said that your answer was satisfactory for the time being in the morning, but in the afternoon, Minister Ducarme said that there were a number of aspects of public health, hence the following questions. Were you aware of the cases of listeriosis in the Netherlands in recent years? If so, what measures were taken? How many listeria infections have been detected in Belgium over the past five years? How many of these can be linked to food? The BFSA stressed the fundamental importance of transparency and communication. The risk groups should be informed. Until recently no one actually knew listeria, nor did they know that it could cause the fatal disease listeriosis. Is it not important, then, to inform the public about this and not to wait until contamination occurs? What steps have you taken or are you taking in this regard? The BFSA reported that Sciensano was contacted by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in August 2019. That wanted to know whether a source of listeria was discovered in other Member States, as in the Netherlands, but did not mention the different deaths. Sciensano has identified two cases of listeriosis in Belgium in 2018. In both cases it was the same tribe as the RIVM established. I conclude from this that two people were infected by listeria from Sacrifice's meat products in 2018. Is that right? Or was it possible to trace these infections to another source? The BFSA reported that 23 calls were organised in 2019 as a result of the listeria bacteria. Could one of those products be linked to a listeria infection? Minister Ducarme has written to Sciensano asking him to systematically provide this type of data and studies to the BFSA and to develop a protocol on this subject. Will you answer that question? Finally, Minister Ducarme informed us in committee that the Netherlands is still carrying out a traceability investigation, allowing additional information on contaminated meat products to follow. Therefore, in order to protect the health of consumers, more products will most likely be recalled in our country. Do you know if that investigation has already been completed and therefore there are no contaminated meat products on the market anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u28	I will now ask the other groups, starting with the Socialist Party, whether they wish to intervene in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u29	Mr President, my group had tried to put its question back on the table by changing the name of the speaker. Obviously, the site has a few small concerns that will be addressed tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents. In any case, I thank you for letting me intervene in this exchange of views. Minister, three people died as a result of Listeria contamination in the Netherlands. A factory in Aalsmeer is incriminating in this case. On 9 October, Minister Ducrame told us that Sciensano had been contacted by the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control last August. The Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu seeks to know whether a strain of listeria present in the Netherlands was also present in another Member State, but without indicating that this strain had caused the death of three people. Minister Ducrame confirmed that in Belgium, two people – it's already too much – had been contaminated by a strain of listeria from the company Offerman – where the problem has persisted for several months, since cases were found in 2018. Moreover, collaboration between Belgian and Dutch health agencies is not working well. It is also a matter of great concern that the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu does not at all contextualise its request for information, whereas it is a question of a disease causing several deaths in the Netherlands and that the strain comes from a company that exports products to us. Minister, how do you assess cooperation with the Netherlands in the prevention and control of infectious diseases? Do you confirm that two people have been contaminated by listeria in Belgium? Can you provide us with an update on this health problem? Can we say that the reaction of our authorities has been optimal? Finally, in our home, the number of cases of listeriosis has remained stable for years. However, what measures are being taken to combat this disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u30	I come immediately to my questions, Madam Secretary. Is the situation in Belgium under control? Do you think there is a problem for Belgian public health? Are there cases of listeriosis in Belgium linked to the group Offerman and thus to the problem in the Netherlands? Do you have any figures on the incidence and prevalence of listeriosis? Mr Ducarme has already informed us that 70 to 80 cases are reported per year. Do you know the causes of those 70 to 80 cases a year? Is it a food contamination? According to Minister Ducarme, there is a reporting obligation for listeriosis, but it varies from community to community. He said that in the French Community, at least listeriosis should be reported to Sciensano. In Flanders this happens only from two cases. Can you confirm that information? What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at the footage of the previous committee meeting with my fellow Minister responsible for food safety and Mr Diricks of the Food Agency. You insisted that I come here, but I suspect there is a misunderstanding about the division of powers. Some will disagree with that. I note from the content of the questions that my powers are widely overestimated. Mrs Jiroflée, you said at the last sitting that everything has to do with health, but that is not the case. As an ancien, you should know that. It is not because there is a potential impact on public health that I am also competent. For example, we have had a discussion on air quality. It does indeed have a direct impact on public health, but it does not fall within my competence to develop measures in this context. I would not know who would implement the measures needed to improve air quality. There was also talk here about the number of hours of sport, the food at school and even road safety. So I'm linked here to all kinds of powers. When it comes to food safety, there is certainly a link with public health. Until further notice, however, that is the competence of my colleague, Minister Ducarme. My colleague, Minister Ducrame, and Herman Diricks of AFSCA explained to you that our food security system was perfectly put in place during the listeria crisis. The AFSCA was informed quickly, thanks in particular to European collaboration. The alert system, Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF), worked well. The products were removed from the sale preventively, were recalled and consumers were notified. The RASFF came after Minister Ducarme had asked the Dutch agency a question. Then they also launched a RASFF on 4 October. Consumer and health protection is the main reason for the Food Chain Safety Agency. As Minister Ducrame has explained, there is no zero risk when it comes to food. However, there is absolutely no reason to believe that there is a risk to public health. Last week, you received figures showing that in our country, the number of Listeria contaminations in recent years has remained stable. It is the services of the Scientific Institute Sciensano that have not noticed any recent changes that may cause us concern. Visiting Sciensano would be a useful work visit. Sciensano follows about everything; also the antibiotic resistance that is measured. It would be really interesting for the committee to make a work visit, to see how progressive there is and how our scientific institutes use the best techniques. And all this from the onehealth principle, because we have already merged the CODA and the former agency. Mrs Gijbels, to your previous questions, with regard to the relationship between the Dutch company Offerman and the Belgian parent company Ter Beke, Minister Ducarme has already replied. It is also about cooperation between the agencies of both countries on food safety. That's exactly why Sciensano was created. I come to your specific questions. There has indeed been no danger to public health. What happened? The Dutch have been able to see through DNA research that there was a link between three victims in the Netherlands with an infection there. Then our agency Sciensano noticed that two cases of listeria contamination last year contain the same strain. There the link was first established with the agency, because the same strain was indeed found in their database in two cases. Those people survived. Was there too little communication or too much communication? Each agency is responsible for its communication. In this case, our agency played a shorter game on the ball. Meanwhile, a lot of other information has already been disseminated, but there is little that can be done about it. As you know, that's the custom now. Madame de Laveleye, you asked me if there were any casualties, which I will answer you no. Indeed, there are no deaths in our country. 74 cases of disease were detected last year, but we assume that there were no serious casualties among those involved. Mr Diricks spoke about the number of analyses and I have the same numbers. I was also asked to explain the steps that have been taken to organize the removal of potentially contaminated products and to inform consumers. Minister Ducrame has already answered these questions. There are procedures within our Agency and we try to exercise caution as much as possible. Last time, when eggs are infected with fipronil, countless eggs and chickens have been recalled. Then they were all destroyed. In the Netherlands there were even many more. We are always working as safely as possible, which, of course, also has economic consequences for the sector concerned. Mrs Creemers, it is true that I was informed on 4 October. It also seems to me normal for us to pass the information on to each other. There was no danger to public health at that time. It was interesting to know that the DNA that was detected by the Dutch and associated with a number of cases was also recovered from us, at Sciensano. There has been no disturbance in the number of reported cases of listeriosis and the BFSA and Sciensano therefore had no reason to speak of a structural problem for public health. After we had taken note of the facts that had occurred in the Netherlands, the BFSA took the necessary measures. I did not communicate about this because there was no danger to public health. If a health minister honks that there was an incident but that there is no danger to public health, people get scared and dare not eat anything anymore. They will then dispose of or return the products concerned. An intervention by the Minister of Health, while there is no danger to public health, worries people rather than reassures them. There has been no contact between me and my Dutch colleague. Of course, there was contact with Minister Ducarme's cabinet. We also received all the information that had to be exchanged. In 2018, there was no new detection method in the Netherlands. We had it before them. So we don't know if there's another link to the infection that was detected there, to the strain that was detected at the time. It may also be in our database, but since they haven't been able to detect it, we can't figure it out anymore. Mrs Sneppe, you had questions about the transfer of information and how it was organised in the food industry. When I arrived here in 1999, there were long discussions about the dioxin crisis. There's still a few people here who've been through that, including the study department. It took months to discuss how the safety of our food should be monitored in the future. That went from growing the food to consumption. We then established a highly performing system, from which the BFSA was created, all monitoring at Sciensano as well as RASFF at European level. There is no evidence that there would have been a danger to our public health. The paradox is that the source of this listeria contamination has been traced precisely because the control of food safety in Belgium and also in the Netherlands is of a very high level and the most advanced technology is used such as DNA typing. There are certainly countries that have not yet reached this stage. We're one of the better ones in there. Mrs. Tillieux is not here. She asked questions about the source. Mrs Jiroflée, yesterday you submitted a question on the number of listeria infections in recent years. You should know that listeria can be on all vegetables, just like in meat or cheese. You know that there are general nutritional measures. The Agency warns that a refrigerator is not enough; listeria can grow in a refrigerator. The fact that pregnant women are not allowed to consume raw cow's milk cheese is well known. This is said by every general practitioner to pregnant and possibly pregnant women, because they can have less resistance at that time. In general, therefore, this is really taken into account. There is also information on the websites of the food agency and of Sciensano. It says that the contamination is always caused by food. Always. Someone asked if contamination is also possible by air. Well, that's not known. According to Sciensano, all cases in their database occur via food. You know that Sciensano unites two institutions. We merged the former Scientific Institute for Public Health (WIV) and the Centre for Research in Veterinary and Agronomy (CODA). In view of the one-health principle, we have made it a single agency. If it is harmful to an animal, it is also harmful to humans. The Minister responsible for agriculture and food safety and I myself share custody of Sciensano. It is therefore perfectly possible for Sciensano to be asked to draw up a protocol on issues such as those mentioned in your question. There's no need for me to give any permission for that. As far as the Dutch cluster of listeriosis is concerned, it appeared in the two cases to be the same isolated strain, of which I will spare you the name. Sciensano found out. Revocations and further measures are not at issue at the moment. The cases with severe consequences detected in the Netherlands have occurred in two years. So they're not from last week or this week. The vigilance and controls shall continue to apply. If measures are still needed to ensure safety, such as recall, then Minister Ducarme, responsible for the food agency, will take those measures. I'll give you that this situation doesn't change anything. You can also find listeria in vegetables from your own garden. There is the discussion between bio or not, that has also been a discussion in the fipronil case. There may always be listeria in vegetables, fish or meat. For most people this also has little or no consequences, perhaps one can get a gastroenteritis, but there will be no fatal consequences. However, in people with other underlying conditions, it may have serious consequences, but fortunately this happens rarely. Mr Prévot, I have already spoken to you about DNA which was identical in two cases in our home and in three people in the Netherlands. We are neighbours to the Netherlands. There are no problems in contacting colleagues or the Dutch Agency. However, when such an event occurs in any European country, communication must take place via RASFF. A protocol has been established. That's how we proceed. What has been put in place to combat this disease? We did the same thing; we applied the same rules. We will continue to take the same measures. No other measure is known or necessary. It is good that we now have a more accurate technique, although that DNA typing also takes a few weeks. That period may be even shorter. There may still be progress in this area. That's a good communal council. This is also important in times of budgetisation. The DNA typing must indeed be made more known, but otherwise there is little progress to be made in this area. Mrs Merckx, you have also asked a question about the strain of the two cases in Belgium. It's the same tribe. So I have already answered that question. The cause is only food according to Sciensano. So far we have no knowledge of airborne contamination, which is reassuring. Indeed, the fact that there is a different reporting system depending on the region is bizarre. But it is a matter of regional competence. In Wallonia, any contamination must be reported and in Flanders only as soon as there are more than two cases. For me as a doctor and as someone with a scientific education, the system chosen in Wallonia is better. As soon as there's anything, we need to report it. After all, it can be the tip of the iceberg and the beginning of something big. For example, the whole fipronilheisa has started with one egg and I do not need to repeat what appeal it has received. I therefore personally call for these systems to be brought into line. However, I have nothing to honk in Flanders. I will certainly pass that on to my Flemish colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u32	Madam Secretary, thank you for your explanation. I have two questions to which I have not yet received an answer. That is, first of all, the question about the threshold. Do you think it makes sense to use the threshold? After all, infections have occurred, thank you for the fact that the threshold has never been exceeded. Secondly, I would also like to have your opinion on the bacteriophages technique applied in other countries. In the United States, among other things, food products are sprayed with bacteriophages, viruses that, for example, attack the listeria bacteria, so that contamination can no longer occur. Would you possibly take that with you or give it to your successor as a tip?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u33	Madam President, Madam Minister, this "removal of the ball" that we see between Minister Ducrame and yourself leaves me a little puzzled. Mr. Ducrame himself answered many questions by saying that he could not answer and that we had to turn to you. Today, you say that these are not your skills. It's a little disturbing. Although I am a new Member of Parliament, I think it will be necessary to re-explain how two ministers from the same group can refer the matter back. This may also refer to our long-standing request to bring AFSCA back to the Health Committee to avoid encountering such difficulties. We are told again that there were no problems and that everything was handled properly. However, it continues to be thought that, if there had been a real concern with this strain, the delay of a few days between the first alerts and the communication to the general public was lost time. This time, fortunately, there seems to be no disaster in Belgium. But we cannot afford to have as many hours of fighting between the first information from Holland and management at Belgian level. Here are my two reactions at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u34	Madam Secretary, I have two small additions. You say that Sciensano can draw up a protocol on what has happened, so that things can be done better in future. I'm very curious about that. Perhaps Parliament or Minister Ducarme should get to work on this. I also hear you say that RASFF worked, but in my view it was too late, as the Dutch did not raise the alarm themselves. The company in question has itself forwarded information, on which the BFSA has contacted the Netherlands. So I remain somewhat concerned about whether this can be improved at European level and whether you have intentions or plans for improvement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u35	Madam President, I thank the Minister for the answer to my questions and I have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u36	Madam Chair, first of all, I thank the minister for taking stock of the situation. I still stay a little on my hunger in relation to the communication of agencies. Madam Minister, I hear you say that each agency is in charge of its communication and that, in your opinion, ours has reacted more quickly than that of the Netherlands, but the question that remains and which is mine is that of the communication between these two agencies and the transmission of information. I think that when we experience a crisis like this and, in addition, we have the chance not to have human tragedies, in any case within our country, we have to learn lessons. Therefore, I still have the impression that there has been a lack of information and communication between the two agencies, even though the government welcomes our communication. I have the impression that the connection between the two has at least been defective. I also note that you have not had contact with your counterpart in the Netherlands but only with your colleague Minister Ducrame. I take note of that. In my questions, there was also the question of what we would do tomorrow. I understand that you are advocating that the measures should remain unchanged and that the Belgian technique, which is important and indispensable, should be welcomed, even if it could be improved by own vote, in particular in terms of the reduction of time. Finally, and this will be my last thought, you find that we should be layered on the Walloon model which asks to report each contamination and not to wait for the second as is the case in Flanders. I can only encourage you to contact your Flemish counterpart in order to achieve this uniformity on the Walloon model.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u37	Mrs Merckx had other obligations. Then I'll go back to my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u38	Madam Secretary, I must join Mrs de Laveleye. Minister Ducarme has indeed said that you are competent for the collection of data on listeriosis and the impact on health, for the monitoring of infectious diseases in Belgium and for the advice of the High Health Council. I do not think I have yet received an answer to two questions. I asked about the cases of listeriosis that Sciensano found in Belgium in 2018. It was about the same strain as this one that the RIVM established. Is it certain that it was also Sacrifice's meat products at the time, or could the contamination be traced to another source? There was also a question from Minister Ducarme to Sciensano to provide this type of data and studies systematically to the BFSA and to develop a protocol in this area. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u39	Mrs Gijbels asked whether the thresholds we are currently applying are still useful. So far, yes, but that can be revised if all the information is known. The cases were detected. The threshold worked there. These cases were in Sciensano's database. If they had remained below the threshold and had not been detected, those thresholds would have to be reviewed, but they were detected. To the question about the bacteriaiophages, the following. This is not only used in the US but also here for salmonella, campylobacters and Escherichia coli. We will ask Sciensano why this does not apply to listeria. However, it is not because this works for a coli that it also works for listeria, because those bacteria are very different from each other. It is still being studied how to avoid food contamination with these bacteria. But part of that research is experimental. The question was why it hasn't happened so far for listeria. There's probably a reason for that, but I need to check. Madame de Laveleye, you are puzzled because two ministers are competent. I go back a bit back in time, but I remember that during the dioxin crisis, the remark was made that for the safety of the food chain, it would be preferable for a minister – the Minister of Public Health – to be competent for this matter. This was a recommendation that dates back to 1999 and it happened a few legislative hours later. From 2007 to 2014, for seven years, Ms.Onkelinx was in charge of Public Health. During these years, Mrs. Laruelle was in charge of agriculture. It was at that time that it was decided to place the Agency under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture. The BFSA was then brought under the Minister of Agriculture to play the ball for a shorter time and Mrs Onkelinx was the second... We have already discussed in committee what should happen in the next legislature: should we go back to one responsible minister or should we preserve the fragmentation that exists between two ministers? The way of working may not change much, but I think it is best to go to one minister. In this respect, however, I will leave what will happen in the middle. The dioxin committee's reports clearly stated that the fragmentation at that time was the origin of the fact that the crisis was discovered so late. That came up very late. The creation of the BFSA has been a huge improvement in this area: now everything is going much faster. There was a call for communication. Have the Dutch communicated fast enough? In any case, communication has happened to us as soon as they know it. At that time they also requested all the information from the Dutch. In the meantime, Minister Ducarme and I have asked Sciensano for all the information at the same time. Sciensano answers all the questions raised by the Minister responsible for food safety. The Netherlands has indeed done a RASFF after our question. I don't know if they could have done it before. I am not supposed to call my Dutch colleague for anything and anything else, if there is no danger. I have a lot of contact with Dutch colleagues. During the fipronil crisis this happened: at that time there was constant contact with the Netherlands. Not now, because there was no danger. Mrs Jiroflée, Minister Ducarme receives all the information requested from Sciensano and I usually receive it simultaneously. In relation to the two cases found in the database, the problem is that this source cannot be found, because we already did a DNA analysis at that time, but the Dutch did not yet. In other words, they don't have a database with the same DNA typing. Since they did not do so at that time, it could not be associated with a company. And then we're gonna have to separate those cases. Here is the link with the company Offerman, but for those two cases we cannot say that it was. We simply cannot know that, because the Netherlands was not so far away at the time. It is good that the Dutch are doing the same in the meantime. You know that part of their food market is in common with ours, knowing that there are companies that supply both countries with food. It's getting complicated, I know. The Agency has carried out all the necessary tests. At some point the Dutch also made the link. That wasn't right. First it was found that the DNA strain was in it three times and then the link was made with the deceased people and the miscarriage. That is why I do not think that the RASFF procedure was initiated immediately, but only at a time when the link with the serious consequences in the Netherlands had been made. They must have learned something from that. We are also trying to make improvements after every case. That's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u40	Madam Secretary, I am pleased to hear that you wish to pass on the idea of the fagen. I can also tell you that there are effective phages that work specifically on listeria. I am also pleased to hear that we already have scientific top technology for the detection of bacteria, but at the same time I have the impression that top technology is missing when it comes to communication. We must continue to work on this. We will continue to keep that aspect in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u41	I want to thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u42	Meanwhile, I've heard from Sciensano why they don't work with fagen sprays for listeria. Listeria is usually found on the cutting surfaces of the knives when processing the meat. The necessary hygiene measures are available for this purpose. One can irrigate, but if the cutting surfaces are not clean, then there is still another contamination in the chain. It is fixed because most infections are found after the meat or vegetables have been processed and cut.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u43	Madam Minister, I hear that you are making a good move to see how powers should be shared in the future. In my opinion, it would be much more useful if Health had unity of competence and if the food chain were to be removed from the Department of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic030x.u44	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Thank you for being here.
