ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u1	Minister, a few weeks ago we heard from the media that you decided to close the Special Security Department in Bruges prison. In 2008, the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions had decided to set up an Individual Special Security Department in Bruges Prison. The department places ten prisoners with a recurring problem of aggression. These prisoners were isolated for a long time, so that the viability of other prisoners and staff could be improved. It was the first department in our country where a care team was also provided. The aim was to accommodate those concerned in this more secure environment for up to six months and thus to provide them with a care path so that they could subsequently re-enter an ordinary department. We have been informed that you have decided to close that department. That is why I would like to ask you a few questions. We are in a period of ongoing business. In principle, policy decisions should no longer be taken. Why did you consider that such a far-reaching policy decision was necessary at the moment? We could read that consideration will be given to what we will do with these difficult detainees in the future. That seems to us to be the opposite world, because we think it would be more logical to first see what could happen when the specialised section is really closed down. I understand that certain things did not go well and that the problem that came out certainly had to be addressed, but did you really have to react so drastically? In the past, heavy terro-convicts were sometimes locked up here because the security services considered it the only place that was considered sufficiently safe from external threats. For example, Abdeslam and Nemmouche were imprisoned here at the time at the request of the federal prosecutor and the director of State Security. Their huge network created an extreme risk of escape for both prisoners. Has there been any consultation with the federal prosecutor and state security on the closure? What will you do if such files come up again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u2	Minister, Mrs Gabriels has already outlined the problem. A few weeks ago, we were able to read that you would have decided to close the high-security department in Bruges. You would have done that after a destructive inspection report. If I understood correctly, the department would have been put on a minimum regime after a dangerous prisoner had beaten up three guards in the showers. The security department in Bruges is almost the only one in Belgium we had. You know that our group is in favour of more such departments or wings, first and foremost to protect the guards but also, of course, the other prisoners. After all, we can all agree that the prisoners in that security department are not always persons who can, without a doubt, be allowed to stay or let go between the other prisoners, even though that last term in a prison context is a wrongly chosen word. But you know what I mean. They're just a danger to everyone. That is why we have the following questions. What were the main reasons in the inspection report that made you decide to close the department? Was there no alternative? For example, was it not possible to respond to the comments of the inspection report, so that the department could still be preserved? The obvious question is the following. What will we do in the future with dangerous, fugitive or aggressive detainees? Do we have a solution for them? Are you planning measures to protect guards and other detainees if extremely dangerous criminals end up in a normal prison regime? What measures could these be? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u3	Mrs Gabriels, Mrs De Wit, the closure of that section is an autonomous decision of the penitentiary administration, which I fully support. That decision was not consulted with the federal prosecutor or with the administrator-general of State Security, precisely because the profiles referred to by Mrs Gabriels in her question never belonged to the target group of that department. The department was not intended for fugitive prisoners, but for prisoners with a certain problem of aggression. The department soon received the term "high security," which led to confusion about the population of detainees for whom it was established. The concentration of detainees with an individual security regime eventually led to a form of collective aggression by the prisoners concerned towards the prison staff. In addition, it was found that the security measures to be imposed strictly individually per inmate were becoming a collective regime of the highest level of security for each inmate residing in that department. My administration also notes that there have been virtually no requests for detention in that department for a long time. At the moment, there are still two prisoners in that department. A decision has already been taken for one of them to move to another prison. The administration has gradually addressed the issue of aggressive behaviour and continuous threat through the individual special security regime, which can be applied in most prisons. That particular regime is the highest form of security and provides the same security safeguards as the detention in the Special Branch. Article 117 of the basic law on the prison system allows, among other things, that in such a regime the prisoners concerned must be left in their cells, excluded from common activities, systematically search and observe and grant visits behind glass. The placement of detainees in such a regime as close as possible to a branch with an ordinary regime could lead to the detention of prisoners from new aggressive behaviour. I fully support the ambition to pursue the development of differentiated regimes, in close consultation with the services of the Communities, which have important tasks in relation to the whole population of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that the same can be achieved in each prison individually through a separate regime. This means that the 2008 initiative was not necessary, useful or even unnecessary. Our group has reservations about this. I understand that it takes a great deal of effort from the services to maintain that particular department. Could the committee have access to the inspection report in question? After all, that report outlines the problem on which the decision was taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u5	We will see if we can get that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A decision was made at the time with a certain vision to place people in a separate wing. If this is to be dealt with now, purely and exclusively by an autonomous decision of the administration, and I assume that you support that decision, then I think that policy decisions and/or visions must be taken in advance. I now hear that in each prison they will try to cope with this by placing the people concerned in a separate regime. In fact, you do not make a wing high security in almost every prison, but a high security cell, and then I wonder, if every time it concerns different cells in different places in prisons, what is the impact on our penitentiary officers in all those prisons? In the end, there will have to be almost specialist chefs in every prison who can deal with it, while otherwise perhaps they could be more concentrated in a special wing. We must have the courage to think about it. In this context, an understanding of that inspection report is indeed interesting. We need to build a very clear vision of differentiation within prisons and of gradual preparation for a return to society. I think that the provision of a separate wing was an essential part of it, and I very much regret that they have come back to it. I also find it very regrettable that it is simply a decision of an administration, and I think it has everything to do with a vision and a policy of punishment to be drawn up and on which political choices must also be made. I look forward to the report and we will follow it up further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u7	Madam President, Minister, on 25 September 2019 a ministerial decision on the loader capacity in the Belgian Official Journal appeared. This decision transposes the European Firearms Directive. As of 13 June 2017, therefore, remedially, chargers or firearms equipped with certain chargers of high capacity are prohibited. The retroactive entry into force is a result of the European Firearms Directive. However, your cabinet had stipulated in the draft decision that the scheme would apply only to licences issued in the future. However, on the basis of the European Firearms Directive, the Council of State's legislation section has had this regulation amended. Such situations are contrary to the basic principles of the rule of law and, as far as I am concerned, constitute a serious breach of legal certainty. Today, thousands of owners of semi-automatic firearms issued after 13 June 2017 are in possession of a prohibited weapon or charger overnight. In addition, this arrangement puts owners at risk of losing their authorised weapons because of the sudden presence of weapons or chargers which are suddenly banned by this retroactive regime. My questions are as follows, Minister. How are you going to restore legal certainty for these people? Can you reassure these people that they will not lose their authorised weapons because of the presence of weapons or chargers which are suddenly banned by this retroactive arrangement? Finally, how do you intend to prevent such situations in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u8	Mr Van Langenhove, the preliminary draft ministerial decision provided that the stricter rules would not apply to the loaders that citizens had already acquired before the date of publication of the decision. However, the Council of State considered that the European Directive did not allow any transitional measure. Following this opinion, my services have carefully analysed the wording of the grandfathering clause in the directive in the light of the legal certainty that could be offered to citizens. In the end, my services considered that a transitional provision was justified. Therefore, the final Ministerial Decision of 20 September 2019 provides that the new rules do not apply to loaders and firearms legally acquired before 13 June 2017. From that date on, the prohibition in the Directive was applicable to high-capacity loaders and therefore no one was allowed to purchase such loaders. Another transitional provision could not be provided for legally. Those who possess high-capacity loaders or firearms equipped with such loaders can still benefit from the exception for certain sportsmen. If that is not the case, the weapon or charger must be handed over to the local police as soon as possible. The governor can always withdraw the gun license and the prosecutor can prosecute if illegal possession of weapons has been established.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u9	I hope, Minister, that this will give some clarification to the interested parties. I would like to mention that I regret that we are entirely dependent on the European Union for this. That is, of course, another debate. I would also like to say that I regret that in this country and in the event of enlargement in the European Union, every incident is being used to regulate and punish the legal owners of weapons even more severely while they are usually illegal weapons used in these illegal acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u10	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Soors's 55001248C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thibaut's 55001251C is also converted into a written question. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u11	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has recently accepted a request for judicial cooperation from Kazakhstan for a political refugee whose home was searched on 1 October last, in the presence of two Kazakh agents, reports the newspaper Le Soir of this Wednesday, 30 October. The person concerned has been the subject of a request for judicial cooperation from Kazakhstan – a country whose political refugee status, granted by Belgium in 2013, is supposed to protect her. Belgium has therefore responded to a request for assistance from the country that persecutes the person concerned, while the law obliges our State to verify whether requests for mutual legal assistance are based on political motives and whether the seizure of documents may lead to a risk of torture for the persons concerned or for relatives. According to the newspaper Le Soir, the search took place in the presence of two unidentified agents speaking in Russian, which is probably Kazakh police officers. They could have consulted documents on the staff member's desk. In addition, the search took place in the absence of the stickman who should have participated in the search of a member of the bar. These two facts, the acceptance of judicial cooperation with a country that has been fled by a person who enjoys political refugee status, and the presence of foreign agents during this search are particularly disturbing. The word is rather weak in view of the astonishment and indignation that is ours in relation to these facts which seem to me unworthy of our democratic State. Minister, do you confirm the facts described in the article of the daily Le Soir on 30 October, this search of a political refugee's home, at the request of the State she fled, and the presence of foreign persons alongside the Belgian police during this search? Who were these two people? Do you confirm that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice have given their consent to this judicial cooperation and to this search? What are the protection rules to be applied to a political refugee when the country he or she has fled makes a request for judicial cooperation concerning him or her? Do you consider that these rules have been complied with in this case? Is the presence of persons foreign to the Belgian police during a search lawful? If so, what are the rules applicable to the presence during a search of persons foreign to the Belgian police? Under what conditions can members of a foreign police participate in a search on Belgian soil? Have these conditions been met in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u12	Minister, like the colleagues who are questioning you today, I was particularly shocked and stunned by the facts in question, through an article in the daily newspaper Le Soir of 30 October. A search was carried out at the home of a Kazakh lawyer, a political refugee in Belgium, Mrs Jardemalie. Since then, several press articles have described the facts. It seems that our judicial police services cooperated with the Kazakh police at the expense of this lawyer who had obtained political asylum because of the serious threats to her security posed by the Kazakh dictatorship. The search, if proven, goes beyond understanding. It took place in the absence of Mrs Jardemalie, who was then in Strasbourg, where she had visited to discuss the human rights situation in her country. Confidential information about its clients was consulted, copied and seized by the Kazakh and Belgian police officers present during the search. This lawyer is alleged to be accused of corruption by an infamous regime for corruption cases involving Belgian and French personalities. Everyone here remembers the lamentable Kazakhgate affair. The case in question seems to be absolutely in breach of our rule of law. All the light must be shed on the acceptance of judicial cooperation with the country that this lady fled, as well as on the presence of foreign agents during this search. Minister, do you confirm the facts described in the newspaper Le Soir article of this October 30th? Is it true that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice have given their consent to this judicial cooperation and search? I recall that, according to article 873, paragraph 2, of the Judicial Code, letters rogatory from foreign judicial authorities may be executed only after having been granted by the Minister of Justice. Have you given your permission to conduct this police cooperation? On what legal basis have persons who are not members of the Belgian police services been able to participate in this search and to take copies of certain documents of the lawyer's files? Have conditions been imposed and, above all, have they been met? Since the filing of my question, I have learned that certain access codes seized during this search, such as mailboxes, Facebook, Instagram or other social media, have been used in the meantime to hack, intrude into, among others, this person's couriers. It is particularly serious to realize that items that have been seized may have been used by third parties to search in correspondence for information to which they normally did not have legal access. Did Belgium not have an obligation to refuse this judicial cooperation in accordance with Belgian laws and our country's international commitments even though, as I said, Mrs Jardemalie had obtained political asylum in Belgium in 2013? Is it normal to have judicial cooperation with a State that seriously violates the rule of law? I recall the Act of 9 December 2004, which provides in Article 4 that the request for mutual legal assistance must be refused if (2°) the request concerns facts which, in Belgium, constitute political or related offences against such offences, (3°) the procedure in which the request is made is based on reasons relating to beliefs, political opinions or any other opinion. In this case, this request for international cooperation is part of reasons related to the conviction of the person searched. I think, therefore, that we should never have accepted this judicial cooperation, but, Mr Minister, I am obviously very curious to hear your answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u13	Mr Minister, the press has informed us that a Kazakh opponent, a refugee recognised on the basis of the Geneva Convention and the provisions of the Act of 15 December 1980 on the grounds of her political opinions, has seen her home searched by judicial police officers. The search would follow a request for judicial cooperation from the State of Kazakhstan. It is worth recalling here that the person – whom I greet since I observed his presence in this committee room – whose home was searched was granted refugee status in 2013, supposed to ensure the confidentiality of his application and his status with the specific aim of protecting her from the Kazakh national authorities. Belgium has therefore responded to a request for mutual legal assistance from a country recognised by an independent Belgian public authority, the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), as persecuting the person who was finally searched. Worse still, according to the three persons present, not only was a follow-up reserved for such a request, but Kazakh police officers were present during the home visit. According to their testimony, these unidentified agents could have read the documents at the office of the recognized refugee opponent, who is also a lawyer at the New York Bar. The whole thing took place in the absence of the stickman, informed a posteriori of the search, although it is planned, although this lady is not a member of the Brussels Bar, whether he is notified and can be present or delegate a member of the Council of the Order in order to ensure that the principles governing the profession of lawyer are respected. I would also like to remind you that on 23 April 2018, a letter from the President of the European Bar Associations was sent to Mr Nazarbayev, President of Kazakhstan, stating that the brother of the recognized refugee who was the subject of the search, Mr Yerimbetov, had been arrested and tortured in connection with the fact that his sister was a lawyer and assisted political opponents of the Kazakh regime. The opponent now legitimately fears that the Kazakh state, with the help of the Belgian police, will draw up a list of political opponents, lawyers and Kazakh human rights activists living in Belgium. We are also informed that, in addition to the investigating judge, two authorities have approved Kazakhstan's request for cooperation, namely the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and the Minister of Justice. I ask you to confirm or deny this information. A few months ago, as I was telling you, the president of lawyers.be said he was concerned about the increasing number of searches and direct or indirect telephone calls in law firms, without the baton being warned by the investigating judge, as the law provides. This is a further infringement of the profession of lawyer. Minister, what can you communicate to us on this very delicate issue without prejudice to the secrecy of the investigation? How can we explain that searches were authorized and organised following a request for international assistance from Kazakhstan, the country of origin of the person searched, even though he was recognized as a refugee by Belgium in 2013? How can we explain the competition of Kazakh agents, legally regarded as agents of persecution, with our policemen during this search? Do you confirm that two authorities have validated the request for international cooperation with respect to a political opponent? How do you explain it? Has prior contact with the CGRA been made to assess the threat to the person, recognized as a refugee, searched? How do you explain the decrease in protections of professional secrecy towards lawyers and their relationships with their clients in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u14	Minister, on October 1st, at 6:30 a.m., a search took place at the home of a Kazakh lawyer – who obtained asylum in our country in 2013 – probably in the presence of two Kazakh police officers. Belgium has thus accepted a request for judicial cooperation from Kazakhstan, which has been validated by the investigating judge in charge of the case, by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and also by your Ministry. This search is subject to appeal. This collaboration with the Kazakh regime poses a serious question in the light of our international commitments since Belgium must protect the political refugees present in its territory and not hand them over to the authorities they are fleeing. This obligation applies a fortiori to Kazakh political refugees for two reasons. First, the law allows Belgium to refuse mutual legal assistance for any offence when it considers that the offence is in fact motivated by political motives. In this case, that is the case. Indeed, the French Council of State established this political motivation for the offences for which one of the clients of Mrs Jardemalie – Mr Abliazov, leader of a political opposition movement – was prosecuted. Article 4 of the Law on Judicial Cooperation of 2004 also obliges Belgium not to respond to such requests for judicial cooperation where there is a risk of a threat to the fundamental rights of the person being sought. In addition, the European Parliament – which has not yet been stressed – calls, through its resolution of 12 December 2017, for an end to the judicial harassment against them, because they exercise their freedom of expression and other fundamental freedoms, independent journalists, civil society activists, trade union leaders, human rights defenders and opposition politicians, including lawyers. Mr Minister, this is the way I come to my questions, which are in line with those already asked by my colleagues. Do you confirm the participation of Kazakh agents in the search carried out by the Belgian police services on 1 October? Do you endorse her? What was their role? Could Kazakh agents consult confidential information about the clients of the searched lawyer? Will the documents and copies be returned to the person being searched? I would like to add that in the meantime we have learned that hard drives and computers on Ms. Jardemalie's desk had also been seized, as well as probably passwords, since accounts, including Facebook, have been hacked. It is also important to point out that if these documents, hard drives and computers are not returned, they are likely to be used by the Kazakh courts against the lawyer as well as political opponents that this lawyer represents. Why was the stickman not warned of this search when a lawyer and his professional secrecy were involved? Why is Belgium entitled to requests from dictatorships concerning political refugees that our country is supposed to protect? How, then, can we provide them with protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u15	Mr Minister, although I briefly repeat the question in Dutch, I think it is very legitimate for many people's representatives to ask for the right facts. As far as we are aware as a people's representative, a search was carried out at a Kazakh lawyer who obtained political asylum in our country in 2013. With that, our country would have accepted a request from Kazakhstan. Firstly, is it correct that, in addition to the investigating judge concerned, the Brussels and FPS Justice authorities also agreed to the search? Secondly, how do you explain that our country is responding to Kazakhstan's request for international cooperation in a Kazakh legal investigation into a woman who has obtained recognised political asylum in our country, precisely because of serious threats to her security because of Kazakhstan? Thirdly, apparently during the search there were also Kazakh agents present. Why? What was their role? Did they have access to information and confidential files from the lawyer or her clients? Did they take any business? Fourth, since a lawyer is held by professional secrecy, a search of a lawyer is usually carried out by the investigating judge himself. Was the confidential nature of the documents sufficiently protected by having the search carried out in this way? Was the staff member requested to be present so that the confidentiality of the documents could be protected? If not, why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that I attach great importance to the presumption of innocence and the confidentiality of a criminal investigation. You're asking for some transparency. Therefore, the balance between these two elements is scrupulously monitored by the prosecutor's office and to this extent, many of my remarks – even if I do not formulate them all to the conditional or potential – must be read and heard as such. In fact, you are asking for transparency on an ongoing investigation and in the presence – I understand that – of the lady in question. With these reservations, I agree to answer your questions with more or less detail. I hope you understand that. Otherwise, my life as a minister becomes very complicated: I am neither the prosecutor nor the investigating judge. First, I confirm that a search was carried out at Ms. Jardemalie's house and that it was ordered by the investigating judge in connection with the execution of a request for mutual legal assistance from the judicial authorities of Kazakhstan. I note first that letters rogatory issued by Kazakhstan have already been executed in Belgium in other cases. I note three letters rogatory received and executed for similar facts during the period 2012-2014. Ms. Jardemalie's refugee status, which is of course an important element, was known and was brought to the attention of the investigating judge before he took the decision to proceed with the search. Political refugee status is intended to protect persons from persecution in the State of origin. The asylum procedure does not take into account offences that could have been committed by the asylum-seeker in the State of origin. There are limited exceptions – for example, war crimes. The possible involvement of the asylum-seeker in other offences – for example, fraud or money laundering – is irrelevant to the granting of refugee status. It must be understood that the principled position that mutual legal assistance cannot be granted simply because the person has been granted refugee status would inevitably result in restraining proceedings against a person who is both persecuted and guilty of offences. This type of situation is of course not very common but can occur. Should we be particularly careful when receiving a request for assistance from certain countries? Of course. Should more vigilance be exercised when the application concerns in addition a person who has been granted refugee status and for whom it is therefore recognized that he or she is at risk of persecution in his or her country of origin? Absolutely. Should this refugee status alone be sufficient to prevent extradition? That's right. There had been two requests for extradition and they had not been executed. But if the conclusion is that we must systematically refuse to cooperate, even in an investigation aimed at gathering evidence, we send a message of impunity. Second, it would be a multi-billion-dollar hijacking case. I speak to the conditional and don't specify the exact amount since I don't know him and I don't want to dramatize things. I don't have that right. The person concerned and/or other persons related to the same file shall be subject to legal proceedings in France, Luxembourg, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In Luxembourg, the IRC (International rogatory commission) initial in the case dates from 22 October 2016. As a result of this IRC, five additional requests were received and implemented. The return of executions took place in March-April 2019. The SPF Justice obtained this information from the prosecutor of the State of Luxembourg. In the United Kingdom, a multi-billion dollar confiscation was decided and one of the main protagonists, apparently potentially linked to Ms. Jardemalie, was sentenced to 22 months in prison for concealing certain assets and falsifying documents in the commercial dispute related to this case. The Public Prosecutor's Office authorizes me to communicate that elements probably related to the offences alleged against Ms Jardemalie in the context of the international rogatory commission have been found. The presumption of innocence and the secrecy of the investigation must of course be respected at this stage. Thirdly, there is no doubt about the legal basis for police cooperation that led to the search. These include the United Nations Conventions on Organized Crime, on the one hand, and Corruption, on the other, and the European Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds of Crime. All have been ratified by Belgium and Kazakhstan, which are thus bound by the rules contained in these instruments. The latter and the forms of crime they target require cooperation between States parties. A joint circular of the College of Attorneys-General and the Minister of Justice, signed at the time by Ms Onkelinx, defines the modalities of these forms of judicial cooperation and aims in particular and explicitly at the participation of representatives of the authorities of the requesting authority during the execution – which, in this case, is nothing exceptional and, moreover, has been authorized by the investigating judge. Fourth, the search was carried out by four federal police financial investigators. The prosecutor authorizes me to inform you that a judge and a member of the Kazakh anti-corruption service were present. Neither the Public Prosecutor's Office nor the investigating judge was informed of any incident during the search. The seizure of evidence does not yet mean that it will be transmitted – totally or not – to the requesting State. This is another phase of the procedure. Audits are still being carried out in this context. All this is, in any case, postponed, since the person concerned brought the indictments to challenge the search. Fifthly, with regard to the question of the status of a lawyer and the possible consequences for the search procedure, I must remind you that the information of the stickman is a decision of the investigating judge. I will not go into the details of this question, because in all cases – as far as I know – the person concerned is, of course, a member of the New York Bar, but is not registered in any of the Belgian Bars and is not on the list of foreign lawyers in Belgium. So, apparently, she doesn't work as a lawyer in our country. I also note that two lawyers who are likely to represent the complainant appeared during the search and did not object. Sixth, as regards the previous stage of the procedure leading to the search, I can inform you that the request for legal aid was received by the Foreign Office, which forwarded that request to the FPS Justice, in particular to the Central Authority for Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, which has been designated as such under the relevant international conventions. In 2018, the Central Authority handled 439 requests for legal aid and 104 requests for extradition from non-EU countries. On the basis of many years of practice, the central authority shall handle all requests independently, except for a few. The request for legal aid that gave rise to the search has not been submitted to my cabinet. The central authority acts as a first filter for legal aid applications, but then it is for the competent judicial authority to decide whether or not to implement the relevant investigative measure, in accordance with all applicable legal rules. Seventhly, on other aspects of the request for legal aid on order and under the control of an investigating judge, I cannot and cannot give any further details. Here too, the secret of research and the separation of powers apply strictly. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I have been sufficiently transparent and at the same time rather delicate in relation to the principles of our rule of law. This kind of question is not a gift, either for the lady in question or for the Minister of Justice. Nevertheless, I wanted to answer you as completely as I could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u17	Madam President, Minister, thank you. I stress the comprehensiveness that you have made and respect the caution that you have tried to exercise. It is a sensitive subject from various points of view: for questions of respect for internal principles of justice, but also at the international level, because they concern persons who have received political refugee status here in Belgium. I assume that this status was not given them for no reason. I do not plead for the impossibility of carrying out a search of someone who has political refugee status. I am simply saying that if we are to do so, we must do so in accordance with special principles of prudence and respect, which can be questioned here, on the basis of the information made public by the press, if they have actually been respected. I hear the justifications you're bringing. I also hear the things you're more careful about. I would like to tell you, generally speaking, that we must make sure that in such cases our services are irreproachable. Do you really think, when Belgian police conduct such letters rogatory, for example in Kazakhstan – it has already happened in specific cases – or in other countries, that it benefits from such a broad range of authorities in the countries concerned? I would like to raise doubts about this. It's a case that deserves prosecution. I wonder whether it is not appropriate to give a mandate to Committee P, for example, to give an objective and distant opinion on the reality of the acts that have been taken, and also on their legality, which I have allowed myself to question, beyond the question of their opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u18	Madam Chair, I also want to thank the minister for his delicate exercise and transparency in an ongoing investigation. I, too, want to highlight some of the elements that remain totally surprising and truly intriguing. First, I have the impression that the Belgian justice system is a little schizophrenic, because at the very moment that it is conducting this search, it continues and is about to condemn "barbouzes" who, in 2013, tried to identify Ms. Jardemalie's home, perhaps even tried to kidnap her and acted on behalf of the Kazakh authorities in a case of harassment and perhaps attempted kidnapping. It is therefore surprising that the same Belgian justice, which will condemn these "barbouzes" – former agents from East Germany, Stasi, and former Russian agents – will at the same time cooperate with the Kazakh government in the search. It is, to say the least, challenging, even somewhat schizophrenic. However, it is assumed that further caution was required with regard to this request of the Kazakh government. The second element that seems to me to have been insufficiently taken into account is that Kazakhstan is recognized for the harassment of its political opponents. You say that cases are filed everywhere, requests for judicial cooperation in different European countries, but that is exactly how Kazakhstan operates! It is to harass his political opponents by all possible means. Several resolutions, notably by the European Parliament, still last March, refer to this. NGOs and associations, including the Open Dialogue Foundation, which is an NGO specifically addressing these issues, recognize that this is a common tactic of the Kazakh regime. This is not an element of reassurance that there would possibly be an extremely serious case. Thirdly, I understand that it would be a matter of prosecuting Mrs Jardemalie for acts of corruption, but on the part of a State which has itself distinguished itself heavily with regard to Belgian and French politicians and which is corrupt at the highest level of the State, I must admit that, again, this ground for judicial cooperation should have put certain obstacles or raised certain questions in our country before accepting such cooperation. I also recall that all the other seers were in the red: political refugee, lawyer, political situation in Kazakhstan... I am a member of the Monitoring Committee of Committees P and R and I will ask for an inquiry from Committee P. You say, for example, that Mrs Jardemalie's lawyers did not object to the search when they ran, having been warned by the family. I have different information, namely that they have been taken away and that they have been asked to leave the premises. I don't have the same information as you about how this search happened. That's very disturbing. This shows that there are differences in the history that we are told to each other. I will therefore ask for clarity. What is most worrying today is that people could be put at risk. I repeat what I said in my question: passwords entered have already been used, in particular by IP addresses based in the United States. That's amazing! What is extremely disturbing is that extremely sensitive material seized during a search would already be used against the person's entourage. In particular, I was able to see screenshots of discussions between activists or human rights activists who had already been the subject of espionage and intrusion. So there are already lists of people who, it seems, could be in danger because of this search and the way things have happened in our country. You said that you are sensitive – we are all – to the fact that we remain a rule of law protecting freedoms, including those who come to seek asylum at home. All this deserves a little more clarity. I know that there is independence of authority, but I urge that, in the course of this case, vigilance be increased, particularly with regard to the documents that have been seized, the documents that concern Ms. Jadermalia's clients and the computer equipment. There were leaks. I hope that there will be no more and above all that they will not leave Belgian territory, given the context in which Kazakhstan is located. I remain extremely surprised – the word is weak – by what happened and I will continue to investigate this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u19	Minister, thank you for your very cautious answer. Beyond the question of whether to allow a search of a person recognized as a refugee in Belgium – which does not raise questions since refugee status does not mean criminal impunity – there are issues related to the legality of everything that surrounded this search. First of all, I would like to make a point because I think your answer is incomplete in one point. Indeed, in 2013, when that person was recognized as a refugee, the accusations currently made against him were already made. Despite this, Belgium has granted refugee status to this person and, contrary to what you state in your reply, the exclusion from refugee status for persons applying for asylum within the meaning of Article 1F of the Geneva Convention contains three exclusions, not one. There is indeed the exclusion you are quoting, which applies when crimes against peace, war crimes and serious crimes have been committed. However, Art. 1F.B provides that the provisions of this Convention will not apply to persons who have serious grounds to believe that they have committed a serious crime under ordinary law – I would say that under ordinary law – outside the host country before being admitted as refugees. What you are quoting is nothing more than a serious crime under ordinary law in view of the amount of corruption that you allow us to consider. This crime was allegedly committed prior to the person's arrival in 2013 in the territory. The Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA), in granting refugee status to this lady, examined this exclusion criterion. This criterion was part of its review. Despite this, the CGRA, an independent authority, granted refugee status to this woman in 2013. This case continues today. It gave rise to the search whose criteria of legality are discussed today in this commission. But we must not lose sight of this decision of this authority which has had to examine these facts. These facts lead us to a search that could be legitimate in my view if it had involved an investigating judge and the Belgian police authorities, but from the moment it involves Kazakh agents recognized as agents of persecution since the Kazakh State is a state of persecution against this lady, I find that a step too much has been taken. Questions about the legality of this search must be asked and examined with seriousness and serenity. I received the same feedback as my colleague Dallemagne on how this lady's advice would have been taken away, and not on how they would have calmly stayed there and found that there was nothing to be said about. There are disturbing elements in the facts that have taken place in themselves, but more generally, also in the proceedings. I hope this will be the last case. Potentially, it is not, since people recognized as refugees in Belgium because of their political opinions, it comes every day. You say this yourself in the introduction of your answer: a lot of requests for cooperation are made, coming from many foreign states. This is a methodology to be redefined. Far from being the case, the exclusion for war crimes is not the only one. This is an example, but point B is just as important in this case. The exclusion for serious crimes under ordinary law exists. It was examined and considered unfounded and refugee status was granted to this woman in 2013.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u20	Minister, thank you for your full answers. In any case, to the extent possible, because you are going beyond the need to ensure some respect for the judicial investigation under way, including the ongoing appeal concerning the legality of the search carried out and which is currently being examined by the Chamber of Counsel. However, we do not necessarily want to hear from you about this legality, even though there are some disturbing elements about our international commitments. But in this case, there was a question of principle and we wanted to hear from you: is it normal for our country to grant a request for mutual legal assistance requested by a country which is known to be authoritarian and which, in doing so, exposes political refugees, but also political opponents, to a serious risk of torture or arbitrary detention in their country? It is on this question of principle that we wanted to hear from you. This issue has already been raised in other cases – in particular in the Sudan, where Sudanese secret police officers have taken action on our territory. We have already asked you about this type of measure, and every time you walk behind the secret of the ongoing investigation. We respect him, of course, we are legalists, but I feel a certain frustration and disappointment with that. I understand that letters rogatory requested by Kazakhstan had already been executed between 2012 and 2014. However, I think the current situation is completely different. In the context of the letters rogatory that you referred to, did the person concerned also enjoy political refugee status? Did these letters rogatory also concern suspicions of corruption, as is the case here? While in the present case, the accusations of corruption are brought by a country known for the corruption practised by its authorities – corruption that has been raised very regularly by various international organizations, as well as the harassment of political opponents. I also wanted to hear from you on these issues. Because, whether you like it or not, the judicial institutions, as well as the police, played a role in the search that is taking place, and you also had a role to play. Or you should have had a role to play in this case. The law gave you the opportunity to refuse this judicial cooperation if there was a risk of a violation of the fundamental rights of the persons searched. The law also gives you the opportunity to return confiscated objects, documents, computers and hard drives. You say that this is another stage of the procedure. I call on you to take advantage of the fact that this stage of the procedure is not yet under way to play your role. You really had everything in your hands to refuse this judicial cooperation. You knew that lawyer was in danger. The International Observatory of Lawyers at Risk raised it in May 2018. You knew that lady was a political refugee. You knew his brother was being arbitrarily detained and tortured in Kazakhstan. The United Nations has denounced this situation. All these elements gave you the opportunity or even the duty to refuse this request for mutual legal assistance. I am therefore very frustrated and disappointed by your answers. I call on you to take advantage of the rest of the procedure to play your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u21	Minister, there is a great deal of respect in Parliament for the complexity that a Minister of Justice can face; there is no doubt about that. The opposite is more delicate: in what way, apart from the status of the person, can one be sure that the protection of persons is guaranteed? I will not repeat what my colleagues have said. However, there are many pertinent questions that could be repeated. We have been in a situation for more than ten years now where we are in direct contact with Kazakhstan with a problem. This has to do with the fact that we have been protecting someone who was once again under suspicion in France a few months ago since the buy-back law came into force. We must therefore ask ourselves what is still the proportion of the protection of individuals. There is now an investigation, which I understand is permitted on our territory by a rogatory letter from Kazakhstan, but where the circumstances described by my colleagues are not a basic matter. There are 439 requests, but this is not one of the cases. There has been a difficult relationship with Kazakhstan for years, with very threatening language spoken from Kazakhstan, not only with regard to people protected by political asylum, but even with regard to members of the Chamber at the time when a parliamentary committee of inquiry was running here. There was always a very strong tension about that. I would like to show respect for what you can and cannot say about this, but I would like to say one thing: in what way can a parliament check whether the proportion is assured of something that has every reason to set off the alarm bells? How can a parliament ensure that the protection of the person is guaranteed? You argue that you do not want to give the impression that there is impunity and I endorse that argument. I will also put a question on the reverse, namely how much money is being made available for rogatory letters in the case of large fraud and money laundering cases that Belgian investigators are investigating in relation to banks abroad. I therefore support the difficulty of impunity. However, when one sees the history of this dossier, where there has always been high tension, where there has been a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the circumstances of those who we have protected by our own purchasing law, who are once again being suspected in France, despite the fact that they were previously protected in France, this is a matter on which I, as a Member of Parliament, wonder how we can guarantee that the proportions are assured and that the protection of individuals is assured. That can't stop at the fact that it's hard when an investigation is in progress. I repeat that I have every respect for the fact that in that case it is difficult to give all the details. However, it is not a question of detail. At the request of the central authority and on the basis of its own autonomy, it was allowed that a Kazakh magistrate and researcher were present and took material with them. If this doesn't lead to alarm bells going off with that central authority and it doesn't point out that this case is so delicate that it isn't just given the permission, when will those alarm bells go off? You yourself replied that most of the 439 requests, but not all, are dealt with autonomously by the central authority. This means that there are indeed circumstances in which the authority realizes that it cannot simply go over it lightly. However, the fact that the current case was considered to be a normal one is a very strange one for me. It is up to Parliament to continue to ask questions on the matter, with all the difficulties it has to deal with with the information we can obtain from ongoing investigations. We often have to deal with this problem. However, the complexity and many difficulties that a Minister of Justice may face may also arise if they are looking for an answer to the question of whether the appropriate proportions and the protection of persons have been adequately met. That is why it is very legitimate that there have been long and many questions about it and that we continue to ask questions about it. The problem has been going on for over ten years. Things are always under stress. People are threatened and put at risk. That's been the case all along. We must now at least ensure that, if there are any further questions from Kazakhstan, we deal with the problem with greater care. After all, she is anything but obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u22	Minister, you can still replicate, albeit briefly, because we have been working on the agenda for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u23	Madam President, my speech will be very brief. Ladies and gentlemen, you have every right to ask me these questions which I must answer as far as possible. So do not doubt my intention to do so as well as possible, but this is a very delicate matter, especially if the lady in question is in the Chamber. Our rule of law will one day have to find an answer to the question of how contacts between the court and Parliament can be assured in an even more satisfactory way, and I do not mean that this is not also the responsibility of the minister. Don't get me wrong. Indeed, all this is subject to the presumption of innocence and taking into account the secrecy of the investigation. So things are very complicated. However, it is certain that this must be done. I just wanted to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u24	Minister, I have repeatedly drawn your attention, as well as that of your predecessors, to the difficult working conditions of prison officers in Mons prison. The outdated enclosure, the lack of maintenance and the consequences of staff reduction plans are putting the officers at the end of the day. This building is old and unsanitary and has never undergone a major renovation. It comes to my mind that 31 cells must be treated and that agents are sometimes reluctant to enter them for fear of being pricked or returning bugs to their homes. Staff are understaffed and under constant pressure. While the prison in Mons used to have 232 guards, today the current framework, however reduced to 217, is not even respected since nine officers are still missing. In this context, staff are on the verge of falling apart and absences from work for illness or injury are increasing. Currently, 55 people are ill or in accidents at work. A strike notice has just been filed and a tightening of protest movements is not excluded. Minister, I would like you to really appreciate the difficulties experienced by the officers of the Mons prison. Do you intend to provide specific support to prison staff? Are there any plans to develop the framework and to engage additional agents? At the building level, will budgets be made available for renovation of the enclosure and some cells?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u25	Minister, this has been repeated many times, the situation in our country's prisons is alarming, especially in Mons. I hope you can give us some explanations about the standards of supervision in this prison. Previously, there were 232 guards in Mons prison, but today, the reduced framework provides for 217. In addition, nine officers would still be required to complete this framework. Minister, how do you explain that the situation in this prison has deteriorated to this extent? The protest movements that took place a few years ago are remembered, but nothing has been set up to provide decent infrastructure and supervision for both prisoners and workers. Minister, how do you explain this situation? And above all, what are you thinking about in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u26	Colleagues, I am well aware of the situation in Mons prison. A large-scale renovation programme is being analysed for the prison. In the meantime, specific work to improve staff safety and to reduce the workload of prison officers is now scheduled for the next two years or in execution, such as cell telephony, the renovation of security facilities or the motorization of SAS doors. The framework of the prison must be filled by transfers pending execution. In the meantime, it will be filled by the engagement of Rosetta contracts. As far as the problem of bugs is concerned, a new multidisciplinary diagnosis is planned on 7 November, in particular with the firm, in order to relaunch an effective action plan. A structured prison clean-up plan is also being re-established.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u27	Minister, thank you. There are a few commitments in your answer. In particular, you are talking about a complete renovation plan for the building. It's really necessary. Either we go through this renovation plan, or we build a new prison. Working conditions are no longer acceptable. I have many relationships among the people who work in the prison. I am told that measures are being taken. Obviously, restorations would be considered, which is still good news. I'm also told there's no locker room. It's a problem for the guards, because in theory, we can't get to prison in uniform. It's illegal, according to what I'm told from a trade union source. I think that, in addition to the necessary renovations, perhaps at last we should consider changing rooms for the guards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that steps will be taken. However, with regard to the Rosetta contracts pending the transfer, I did not hear any delay. I hope this is a short time. I believe that urgent supervisory measures must be taken, since in the prison context it is exactly this type of situation that leads to incidents. Minister, I ask you to hear our concerns about this situation because when guards are in difficulty in their work, relationships are deteriorating very quickly. That is why, Minister, I would ask you to pay particular attention to the rapid application of these supervisory standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u29	Attached questions No 55001285C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and No 55001368C by Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u30	Madam President, Minister, in 2016, ECPAT Belgium presented its report on the impunity of perpetrators of sexual abuse committed against children abroad. ECPAT has limited human and financial resources for its mission. According to his report, only 13 cases had been reported for 2015, for the period 1996-2015. These figures are far below reality when one knows the extent of the phenomenon and its reputation among most travellers in the countries concerned by sex tourism. Very few of these cases have been followed by sanctions. However, the Act of 13 April 1995 on trafficking in human beings makes it possible to prosecute any person guilty of sexual abuse committed against children abroad, provided that the person is on Belgian soil when the public action is initiated. It also provides for the prosecution of perpetrators of sexual abuse even if the Belgian authority has not received any official complaint or notice from the foreign authority. In 2016, you replied, to a question from Mr.Maingain, that the College of Attorneys General did not have the data to say how many reports had actually led to a judicial investigation. In 2016, you also counted on the extension of the ECRIS central data bank (which gives any EU Member State access to criminal records of other Member States) to third-country citizens who are not EU citizens and who have committed an offence in the territory of the European Union. This has been done since April 2019. However, according to Interpol, nothing would prevent a child criminal in his or her country, in the case of one of the Member States of the European Union, from travelling and coming into contact with local children from a third country of the European Union. Of course, Interpol's green notices make it possible to notify the authorities of a country of the arrival of a criminal who is likely to reoffend. But some European Union countries, such as France and Germany, believe that these green notices violate the right to rehabilitation of offenders who have already served their sentences. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know if we finally have figures and up-to-date data on the number of complaints of sexual abuse committed against minors abroad by Belgian nationals and/or resident in Belgium? What is the position of the College of Attorneys General on the application of the 1995 Act? When and how does Belgium intend to transpose the most recent ECRIS Directive? Is there any means to prevent child criminals in Belgium from travelling abroad? Are Interpol green notices respected in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u31	Madam Chair, Ms. Rohonyi, the short time that has elapsed since your question was tabled has not allowed me to receive a response from the College of Attorneys General. As regards the ECRIS database and the transposition of the ECRIS database directive, the Law of 25 April 2014 on various provisions in the field of justice amended Articles 589, 590 and 597 of the Code of Criminal Investigation in order to provide the legal basis in Belgian law for the application of the instruments of the Council of the European Union. To this end, the words "or a rule of secondary law of the European Union binding on Belgium" have been inserted in the various articles. Convicted or prosecuted persons in Belgium may be subject to restrictions on their movement abroad at both the stage of investigation and the execution of the sentence, including the provision of the court with regard to the enforcement of sentences. These restrictions are generally reflected in the requirement to prohibit departure from the national territory. The mechanisms exist to prohibit the issuance of a travel document for these persons via the PASBAN file. Interpol green notices issued by other states are accessible in Belgium via BNG-control. I have now received additional information by e-mail which I will also send you by e-mail because the text is quite long and it is written in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u32	Minister, perhaps a translation of the e-mail is planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u33	Yes, but I prefer not to read a document that I have not yet read.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u34	So you can take the answer with you. At least that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u35	Minister, thank you for your concise answers, as usual. I understand that the law allows for restrictions to be imposed on the movement of persons who are criminalized for sexual crimes against minors, both during the investigation and at the time when the person is serving his or her sentence or is made available to the court for the enforcement of sentences. However, the question arises about convicted persons who have served their sentences and who are not made available to the court mentioned above, but who must continue to be monitored because they still pose a danger to minors. On 20 November, we will celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is very clear, since it prohibits child prostitution. This law obliges those States that have ratified it – including Belgium – to prosecute those who exploit and abuse children. That is why our country has a duty to do everything possible to protect them. Of course, the law provides for provisions to prevent child criminals from travelling abroad. Nevertheless, in my view, this arsenal remains insufficient. For this reason, I invite you to consult with the NGOs that are doing a great job in this area and to think about a legislative tool that is really being developed. Failing this, such criminals will continue to benefit from weak legislation that is inadequate for the techniques they use. I therefore encourage you to work with the NGOs concerned to ensure that children are truly protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u36	Minister, we are going to stay in Belgium this time. This is not the first time my party has asked you about the catastrophic situation of justice in the province of Luxembourg. In particular, Mr. Maingain asked you about this shortly three years ago, particularly with regard to the critical condition of several judicial buildings in this province. If the working conditions of the prosecutor's office have already raised many concerns on our part, it is those of the magistrates of the seat who are now asking you questions. At the end of September, the President f.f. The Court of First Instance of Luxembourg had, to say the least, made an alarming assessment of the situation. Out of a cadre of 25 judges, set by law, he tells us that he has only 18, or 72% of the staff, compared to 88% when we interviewed you in March 2018. The situation has therefore deteriorated since our last question. In order to take you to the heart of the reality of the judges of the province of Luxembourg, I would like to give you a few facts. There are no more hearings of the Correctional Court on the fourth and fifth Mondays of the month. For the fourth Wednesday, as things stand, they are maintained until the beginning of November. We therefore do not know what the state of affairs will be this month. The incumbent judge left the family court in January 2018 and was replaced only in April. The number of judges dealing with family matters is three, compared to six to seven full-time judges. While the tax delay had been eliminated, there is now more than one judge and the judge must also sit on Namur's side. There is therefore a risk of returning a backlog in tax matters. Minister, were you informed of this situation? How do you explain the deterioration of the situation since March 2018 and what concrete answers do you envisage? What follow-up will be reserved for the loud request of the President f.f. the court of first instance to obtain at least one additional correctional judge and one additional civilian judge? Are you able, as a follow-up to the question I have just addressed, to confirm a judge appointment at the end of the year? Can you also tell me whether it is possible to estimate the number of judges required for the judicial district in relation to the workload? It is known that workload assessment is a recurring theme in this commission, while there is no reliable tool to calculate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the legal framework of the court of first instance in the province of Luxembourg is 24 judges, not 25. Whatever! Currently, 18 effective magistrates are serving in the Luxembourg Court of First Instance on a framework of 24. So that's 75% of the framework. Compared to the situation in March 2018, four judges left the court: two retired, one resigned voluntarily and one was appointed president of the Liège Court of Appeal. Since March 2018, a magistrate has been appointed to the court. At the same time, three appointment procedures are under way. In addition, the vacancy for the position of President of the Luxembourg Court of First Instance was published on 13 September 2019. The reason why the appointment procedures do not correspond specifically to departures is that several procedures initiated in 2018 did not provide any winners. Although some candidates applied for this position, the Supreme Council of Justice did not propose anyone. As a result, these vacant places had to be reissued and are therefore still under way. The Chief of Staff's requests for further reinforcement are honoured in the sense that my services have indeed published the recruitment plan presented to me by the College of Courts and Courts and that it proposes the publication and publication of the vacant places of judges of the Court of First Instance of Luxembourg. I can confirm that, of the three vacations in progress, only one can result this year in the appointment of a new judge, given the proposal of a winner by the Supreme Council of Justice on October 18, 2019. Currently, the appointment order is subject to the King's signature, in order to allow the person concerned to take the oath, in all likelihood during the month of December 2019. It is within the discretion and competence of the president of the court to decide whether the appointed magistrate will be assigned to civil or criminal cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that appointment procedures are under way. Happily! I know that it is not always obvious to find candidates who meet the conditions for becoming a magistrate, while knowing that they have been toughened in the last legislatures. This must be taken into account even if I do not say that, in the specific cases in which we are dealing, it would be difficult to find candidates. However, I believe that there has been a hardening in the conditions of access to the judiciary. Perhaps we should have a broader debate on the re-evaluation of the office of magistrate. I invite you to continue your efforts. However, a framework filled with only 75% is difficult to maintain for people working in this jurisdiction. This means that, on a daily basis, the work requiring the care of four persons is performed by only three. I think that in any sector this situation would be unbearable. In the justice sector, where the legal backlog has very difficult consequences for litigants, for victims, it is difficult to maintain. I really invite you to pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u39	Debates of the European Parliament 5501355C by Mrs Katja Gabriels will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u40	Madam President, may I add my written question to the report for the sake of clarity? That way, I'll save the Minister some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u41	Yeah, I think I can do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u42	Let me summarize the three points. It was announced that there would be a sectoral Ombudsman for the debt industry and that costs would not exceed 40% of the principal debt. Why haven't these measures been taken yet? When can we expect these measures? Finally, will you or will you not support my legislative proposal on the approximation of the list of irreplaceable goods?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u43	Mr Crombez, the sectoral ombudsdienst bailiffs has been recognised by the Federal Public Service Economy since 1 September 2018. The Ombudsman appointed by the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs started his mandate shortly thereafter, on 6 September 2018. The first annual report will be published in 2020. The legislative initiative I referred to in the middle of last year was prepared in the government. However, the fall of the government at the end of 2018 prevented the draft law from being approved and submitted. As the government has a limited right of initiative in current cases, I think it is more appropriate that the subject should be taken up further by the committee rather than by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the information. I conclude that, with your support, the Justice Committee can bring this to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u45	Mr Minister, I have a follow-up question following the ruling in the interim. Has the Belgian State made an appeal? When will the repatriation of Belgian children from Kurdish refugee camps take place? Madam Minister, I will have my written question added to the report so that I do not have to read it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u46	Mr Crombez, the decision of principle to appeal was taken, but the appeal has not yet been filed. It's being prepared right now. There are discussions on the way forward to follow in order to follow up on the recent verdict. Whatever the statements in the press, the talks with Iraq are taking place in a precise diplomatic framework, in which Iraq has not hidden the difficulties with the envisaged solution, but has not closed the door to a solution either. There is currently no solution based on an international tribunal. The obstacles to such a solution are numerous. For example, the establishment of an international tribunal takes a very long time and the international criminal courts have always limited themselves to the trial of the main responsible for the crimes that have been endorsed, which would only provide a very partial response to the problem of Belgian and European FTFs. The thought trail to send researchers to the neighbouring countries was cited by the federal prosecutor. He informs me that, in particular, over the last few days, this thinking has given rise to discussions between the Federal Security Council and UNITAD, the United Nations investigation team that supports Iraqi efforts to prosecute war crimes and crimes committed against humanity committed by IS. The slope is also discussed by the federal parquet with its partners in the context of the collection of what is called battlefield evidence. Cooperation with the United States in the prosecution of the FTFs is intensive and excellent. Our American partners know that systematic criminal prosecutions are being brought against the FTFs, even if they are in Syria. They know that many of the Belgian FTFs were already convicted by default. Our American partners know and support these efforts. On the other hand, when it comes to prioritising their efforts in the field of analysis and the presentation of evidence, it is of course possible that cooperation from the US side will be faster with the countries taking back their FTFs. This certainly does not mean that the United States is not currently cooperating with the Belgian services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u47	Mr Minister, you are presenting a very different picture today than two weeks ago of the possibility of sending surveyors to collect evidence. That doesn't include my judgment, but it's interesting to hear that. I understand from your answer that in those two weeks the possibility of using surveyors has become much more likely. I think the statements of our government are rather confusing about the succession of FTFs, abroad and whether or not they are in camps. That's not so bad for a parliament, but it is for the people. The government sends a very confusing message regarding the establishment of an international tribunal or court and the use of Iraqi justice. As is often the case, you are a little more cautious and that is not bad at all, quite the contrary. You say that the truth is that no solution is already at a stage where one can talk about a solution. It is exploratory and cautious at the diplomatic level. I hear a very different tone here than in the statements made by some of your colleagues, including the Minister of the Interior, who are much more direct on this issue. I think it is important that these statements are as clear as possible, even if they should be cautious. I would like to thank you for the clarification on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u48	Mr Crombez, for the record, it seems that the Rules of Procedure do not allow the full written question to be included in the report if it has not been delivered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u49	As I have said, I believe that we need to agree on this. After all, we are wasting a lot of time on the part of the ministers reading all of this, sometimes up to six times the same thing. That is why, as chairman of the committee, I specifically asked you twice whether it was right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u50	This was not a problem for me, but I cannot ignore the Rules of Procedure. The summary of your question, the questions you asked, the answer and the reply will be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u51	Miss the chairman, it would have been better if you'd notified me ex ante instead of ex post. The message is, there's nothing I can do about it. I'll keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u52	You must ask for an amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u53	I do not agree that the chairman of the committee cannot indicate that a written question can be included in the report. However, I am not going to settle that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u54	Madam President, Minister, as soon as Parliament came back, I was asking you about femicides, of which there is much to be said about – unfortunately, unfortunately. Our State is bound by the obligation, both moral and legal, to combat violence against women in four areas called the "4P": integrated policies, prevention, protection and support, and prosecution. You then claimed that you were not in favour of the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code, but that you had asked the College of Attorneys General to apply more often the instrument of the ban on residence – which is frequently used in Spain, Austria and the Netherlands. In the meantime, domestic violence continues to cause new victims. Yesterday we learned of Aurélie's death, which is thus the twentieth woman – known – to have been killed this year because she was a woman. She was stabbed with brick and knife by her ex-companion. This morning, we discovered a new case of femicide, since another woman was murdered with a knife, also by her former companion, in front of her mother's house, where the victim had taken refuge. These tragedies arouse a sharp and legitimate emotion among the population, because, like so many others, they could have been avoided. Aurélie – and no doubt also the case of the last victim – had already filed a complaint of assault, following which an investigating judge had placed the author under arrest warrant, which was subsequently released by prohibiting contact with the victim. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know what flaws you identify in the protection of victims of domestic violence and in the follow-up of their perpetrators? How do you analyse the lack of enforcement of the 2012 law on the temporary prohibition of common residence in cases of domestic violence? Is the fourteen-day limit still justified? Do you consider that the electronic bracelet would make this law more effective, knowing that electronic monitoring will then have to be properly refinanced? What measures have been or will be taken to protect children from victims? What about the training of magistrates and police officers, in order to encourage the victim to file a complaint and to enable it to succeed, in particular through effective protection measures? Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to hear from you about the results Belgium will defend in its biennial report to the UN on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. How will Belgium justify the absence of a census of violence? This is indeed an obligation under the Istanbul Convention, ratified by Belgium in 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the fight against domestic violence and violence against women is a top priority for me. Indeed, recent cases of death demonstrate that we need to continue our efforts further. Every victim is a victim of too many. This should be re-inserted, as a matter of priority, in the next comprehensive security framework note and in the next national security plan, which will require additional resources. However, I dare doubt that separate criminalization of femicides contributes to better protection of victims. Whatever the context, murder and murder already belong ex officio to the category of the most serious crimes. It is important to enhance the development of a comprehensive approach with attention to prevention, repression and follow-up with regard to the perpetrator and the victim. This integral approach finds its place in family justice centers. Nevertheless, the numerous preventive and supervisory measures do not fall within the competence of the Court of Justice, but rather within the competence of the Communities. In the event of a situation at risk, however, the Public Prosecutor's Office is in a position to intervene as a matter of urgency by imposing a ban on residence and contact pending further action. I am explicitly in favour of it. The use of an electronic bracelet with a GPS function is certainly a good idea provided that the competent services of the Communities have the equipment and can monitor compliance with the measurement. With regard to the temporary ban on residence, the law of 5 May 2019 adapted the legislation and addressed the main gaps contained in the law. Thus, the duration of the measure has been extended, the procedure has been simplified, the penalty for those who violate the prohibition has been increased to one year, in order to allow for pre-trial detention. The legal assistants also received a warrant as part of the author's accompanying journey. This last point still requires a decretal addition. In all the public prosecutor's offices, reference magistrates have also been appointed. In addition to basic training for judges, they received specific training on the approach to be taken to violence between partners. The College of Attorneys General has informed me that I am prepared to explain the policy and approach in this area to Parliament. The Public Prosecutor's Office has statistical data on violence between partners, but not on all crimes of violence against women, due to the lack of recorded data on the sex of victims. In this respect, specific "context" fields should be provided in Mach, after the deployment of Mach to all prosecutors' offices and courts of first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic047x.u56	Minister, thank you. I am very pleased to hear you consider the fight against sexual violence and make women a top priority, and to hear you say that every victim is a victim of too many. That was exactly the meaning of my intervention. I am also pleased to hear that this theme will be the subject of a national action plan. It is also an obligation we have. We must also and above all accompany this plan of means. There is nothing worse than adopting a plan without the means to make it effective. There is nothing worse than making victims believe that they are going to be protected, while in the end, we will not have the means to effectively ensure this protection. This will have to be foreseen in particular if we are to introduce this famous electronic bracelet. I come to a few points which I would like to stress. Of course, measures will have to be taken by other levels of power, by your counterparts in the interior and equality of opportunity, that's for sure. But I believe that as Minister of Justice, you must also coordinate the social and judicial treatment of victims. There is a minister who must nevertheless ensure the coordination of the measures to be taken by the different levels of power and by the various ministers. I would therefore have liked to hear from you about the commitment you intended to make in this regard. For the rest: I can clearly understand that you do not see the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code as the miracle solution to the fight against sexual violence. That's not what we're talking about. Our will – and I think it is shared by a whole series of parties – is precisely to include this measure in a much broader set of measures. That is what Spain has done in particular. The fact that sexual violence against women has been reduced quite considerably is because, in addition to the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code, a number of other measures have been adopted. I think we need to be able to work in this direction. I understand that the College of Prosecutors General is available to address this issue in Parliament, in this Committee on Justice, at a hearing on this subject. Thank you.
