ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u2	Proposals tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Richard Miller, David Clarinval, Gautier Calomne, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u3	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2847/10) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2847/10) The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a resolution on translocalised works of art and the initiation of a dialogue with the French State.' The title has been amended by the committee in a motion for a resolution on works of art that have been relocated and on the basis of a dialogue with the French State." The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Capoen and Mrs Pehlivan, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long while taking my time. I would like to start with a few words of thanks to the Chairman of the Committee on External Relations, Mr. Van der Maelen, for it has enabled this text to be successfully concluded. I thank the rapporteurs, Mrs Capoen and Mrs Pehlivan, for their report, which contains, in addition to the discussions we have had in committee, the presentation by Mr Guido Gryseels, the director of the Royal Museum of Central Africa and the note prepared by the former Secretary of State, Mrs Zuhal Demir. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on External Relations who have helped to deepen this much more complex and progressive subject than it appears at first sight. It is thanks to the work of the Commissioners that the initial framework of my motion for a resolution, namely the opening of a dialogue with France, concerning improperly carried works of art. I used the technical term it is used in this kind of text: "translocated" works. These are works that have been carried away from our regions, from Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia, to revolutionary France and later, Napoleonic France. This initial framework, which was the proposal I had tabled, has been extended in the course of our work. As Houellebecq says, there has been an extension of the field of struggle – to the restitution of works of African origin preserved in our country, mainly at the museum of Tervuren. It was obviously on this point that Mr Gryseels' hearing was fundamental. He was able to reassure us about the risk often put forward to open Pandora's box and start a process leading to the emptying of Tervuren from all his collections. According to the director of the museum, this risk does not exist. Mr. Gryseels even confirmed the willingness to dialogue with the requesting African States and partners, so as to guarantee their people the right of access to their memory and its preservation. There are, therefore, avenues and initiatives to this end are already being taken either by the Tervuren Museum or, as the Minister De Croo said in committee, by Development Cooperation. These elements have made it possible to add important amendments, of which I commend the authors, and to change the title to take account of this "extension of the field of struggle". We are no longer talking only about the beginning of this dialogue with the French State, but the proposal is now entitled: "Proposal for a resolution on works of art translocated in general and on the beginning of a dialogue with the French State". Since President Macron's speech in Ouagadougou on 28 November 2017, it has indeed become undeniable that alongside the strictly museum dimension, has added an important dimension of cultural diplomacy through the problem of restitution of heritage and artistic works. I stress this openness on the part of the curator of one of our largest museums, because we must reread Aimé Césaire's speech on colonialism. I strongly advise you on all matters relating to the reflection that will have to be carried out in relation to our colonial period. Aimé Césaire says: "The museum by itself is nothing. Nothing! And he doesn't mean anything. He cannot say anything, where the blissful satisfaction of self rots his eyes, where, admitted or not, racism tarnishes sympathy." It's a very nice speech. This means that, in the museum dimension, one policy must be pursued towards the other. The museum approach in our country must contribute to the possible reconciliation between living cultures, as well as to a work of recognition of our collective history. Some steps have already been taken in this direction during the reopening of the Tervuren Museum, but this is insufficient. This process must be continued. Museums are being created in Africa. We must insist on this because one of the arguments used to prevent the return of works is that there would not be the infrastructure necessary to preserve them safely. Now there is an emerging museum policy. In particular, the Museum of Black Civilizations in Dakar should be welcomed. Africa has suffered enough. We have talked a lot about it in committee and we must be able to heal the wounds and help them heal. Cultural diplomacy, based in particular on the restitution of works, is a magnificent instrument in this regard. Such cultural diplomacy can also prove effective – on the other side – on the European ground and even on the ground of European revival. I come back to the starting point of the resolution: the works of art carried out in a methodical manner (it was organised) by the troops of the French Revolution and then by the Napoleonic forces are works carried away from Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. I am not going to repeat all the debates we have had in committee, but I think it is necessary to stress that this is in no way, ladies and gentlemen, a declaration of cultural war against France. It is a question of asking the government to propose to the French State to open a dialogue about works, such as Rubens, Van Dycks, a whole set of great names in the history of art in our provinces, which have been carried away by force, which are preserved in French museums and for which no title of acquisition can be provided, and for cause. Between the official principle of the inalienability of the "French" heritage and the pure and simple restitution, there is indeed a range of solutions, such as making available, shared property, exchange, etc. What matters is the political vision of this issue. It must reduce legitimate fears, specious arguments, national selfishness, conservative fixations. This political vision has already been mentioned in various assemblies in our country, in particular in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, which Mr Cheron remembers because he was present in the debates we had. Discussions were also held in the Flemish Parliament, the Brussels Region Parliament, the Chamber, the Senate and the European Parliament on this subject. It must be acknowledged that French President Emmanuel Macron, and even in part against the opinion of his own administration, has given a famous boost to this issue. What is this political idea? It is international and more directly, European. We know that the European Union needs gestures of trust between states, especially today. France, this great European State, can, thanks to its cultural history and its rich heritage, contribute to it through such exchanges, agreements and restitutions. I am sure that our French friends can understand this and that they may have already understood it. Finally, if, as I hope, the text enriched by the amendments is voted on earlier, it also includes the request to work towards an international legal framework. Indeed, and this will not be the least quality of the vote we will be expressing, it will be observed – I can assure you – by our African and European partners. It may also serve as an example and argument, for example, in the debate between Greece and the United Kingdom on the friezes of the Parthenon. The opening of this issue by our country, which lies at the heart of Europe, will have a positive impact. The colonial era will not be completely completed, as long as the question of memory is not resolved in the dialogue. I will conclude by recalling that, while this issue has undergone new developments, in particular through the restitution to Jewish families and institutions of cultural property stolen by the Nazis, it has long been of concern to great humanists. This is indeed a theme linked to humanism. I shall cite only two examples. First of all, I will mention the historian Polybe. I read a lot of historians these days; I started this morning... Polybe, 2,200 years ago, described the double penalty that the winner inflicts on the defeated by depriving him not only of his cultural heritage, but by inviting him who is more to admire in his own cities the humiliating spectacle of his remains. Another important author is Cicero. The first trial of a case of this type is pleaded by Cicero in the Verrès case. I am speaking to lawyers and constitutionalists. This despot had stripped Sicily, whose protectorate had been entrusted to him by Rome. He had simply stripped Sicily of all the works of art that were there. The Verrès trial took place in 70 BC. J.C. Cicero had requested a period of 110 days to conduct his investigation. Finally, Verrès went into exile. Verrès used, to spot interesting works, what Cicero called lime trees. Napoleon did the same in our country. He sent specialists, commissioners, to identify places where there were important works. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u5	No, I don't compare Napoleon to Cicero. Finally, I could compare Napoleon to Verrès. But I won't go that far. Nevertheless, the process was the same. Works have been taken away from many of our cities – from Liège, Courtrai, Ghent, Antwerp, Tournai, etc. If important works, Rubens and others, were taken away, it was because lilies came to spot them. This is what Cicero said in the name of the Sicilians: "The whole Sicily, if it could speak with one voice, would tell you: what I had of art and ornaments in my cities, my houses, my shrines; what I had of right over these things, you, Verrès, took away from me and carried away from me. As such, I demand, by virtue of the law, that this be returned to me." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u6	Mr President, I would like to welcome the initiative of Mr Miller, who has drafted and defended this text which has been dear to his heart for many years. This text has led to a much broader debate than the title suggests. It had indeed been an opportunity to address the question of the restitution of African cultural and heritage property acquired during the colonial period. The resolution contains specific requests in this context. First, the need for an international legal framework regulating the restitution of cultural heritage between States. Secondly, the need to commission, like France, an inventory and an analysis of the origin of cultural objects, art and human remains that form part of the collections of Belgian museums, in particular the collection from Central Africa. Finally, the need to strengthen the dialogue with third States from which heritage and cultural property in Belgian museums originates in order to ensure its joint exploitation. It must be admitted that since the reopening of the Royal Museum of Tervuren, renamed the Africa Museum, the coloniality of our institutions and practices has been at the centre of many debates in our various parliaments, in civil society and in our media. According to experts and the former Minister of Culture Aminata Traoré, between 90 and 95 per cent of African cultural property, mainly from sub-Saharan Africa, would be outside this continent. The magnitude of this material and immaterial deprivation is challenging. While it is difficult to measure its direct and indirect consequences, it is necessary and urgent to address this issue politically, diplomatically and scientifically. The hearing of Mr. Guido Gryseels, Director General of the Royal Museum of Central Africa, was very useful to our discussions, particularly on the issue of the restitution of African cultural heritage, a multifaceted issue. As he pointed out, this is partly the result of the report on the restitution of the heritage prepared by Mrs Bénédicte Savoy and Mr Felwine Sarr at the request of President Macron in France. This report has also given rise to a major international debate. Belgium must of course play a role in this context. Although, according to Mr Gryseels, so far no African country has requested restitution from the museum in Tervuren, he nevertheless insists that Belgium, like France, take up this issue without delay. At its hearing, Mr Gryseels thus pleaded "to set up a working group to examine the possibilities and problems of restitution with a number of experts and to draw up the legal framework for possible restitution". This is precisely the purpose of the amendment tabled by my group in plenary session: to set up an interdisciplinary working group composed of Belgian, European and African experts with the task of inventorying African cultural and heritage assets currently held by Belgian museums, their status and the conditions under which they were acquired. Our amendment also proposes to organise an international conference on these issues to advance the debate, reflection and possible solutions. It is therefore an amendment which seeks no more or less to complement the excellent constructive work we have done in committee. This amendment is also fully in line with the commitments made in committee by our Prime Minister. This working group is expected to provide a final update on the conditions under which these collections were acquired, as well as on the question of their conservation and restitution. It is also interesting that its conclusions can be presented to this House. It would therefore be essential for the federal government to take the initiative to set up this working group and organize this international conference on these issues, in order to advance the debate, the reflection and the avenues for solution. Historically, objects belonging to peoples have been found in other peoples. The complexity of current restitution claims, due to the variety of circumstances that have governed the movement of objects, requires new rules that take into account our shared interest in a fairer distribution of cultural resources. For, yes, the work around our colonial past is essential and enormous. Above all, we all know, it is far from over. Even this resolution is not perfect, especially on the issue of co-management of collections. By going through the alleys of some museums, by reading the names of some streets or even by looking at some frescoes or panels in our communal houses and town halls, we know that obviously there is still a way to explain and contextualize our past, with a critical, historical and scientific look. We mustn't erase it. We can't erase our past. On the other hand, we must use and analyse it to get out of it big, and above all, to change our societies, our mentalities, our consciences and our unconsciousness, especially in the representations that we still have of people living on the African continent, but also of our Afro-descendant fellow citizens. If the work is huge, it is up to us to lead it. I give you a quote that we have just shared with me in this debate. An African proverb, often quoted, says: "You may be accumulating dust under your bed, one day you will move." It is therefore essential that we carry out this work. That is why, as an example, I have also tabled a motion to the Namur Communal Council on the question of the decolonization of our public spaces. The colonial history of our country can no longer be a taboo. I also think that mentalities are changing in the right direction, including at the museum in Tervuren. It is a matter of increasing this awareness within our various cultural institutions, but also in society in general, in collaboration with all the public, private or academic actors in our country. The momentum is here. History must say its word. The colonial history of our country has also been marked by the violence, massacres and colonial crimes that must be faced in order to build a better future for all. We must recognize the many human sufferings and tears in order to learn from them and to take the necessary action. As you will have understood, the debate extends far beyond the collections of the Tervuren Museum or another museum. It finally covers the whole of our colonial past, as illustrated by the work we did, almost a year ago, on the recognition of the segregation suffered by the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa, of which we can be proud. Similarly, I will be very proud to support the text before us today, hoping that my amendment will be able to enrich it and gain your support. Finally, Mr.President, our resolution passed on March 29, 2018 provided for the government to issue a solemn declaration recognizing the segregation of Métis children from their black mothers during colonization. I hope that before the end of this legislature, and as promised to me in committee by our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, this Prime Minister will come, between these walls, to honour his commitments. I hope that you will, as President, make this statement possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Grovonius. I can tell you that the government statement you mentioned will normally take place within two weeks, March 28, 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, be reassured, I will not take the 110 days granted to Cicero and I will be brief. My group will support with interest this excellent resolution by Mr Miller for his objective, which you have brilliantly defended, and also because it echoes the broader debates on the return of unjustly stolen works or goods. They woke up around the reopening of the Tervueren Museum, the Afrikaans Museum, and they also live at the global and European levels through UNESCO. Some of the amendments that we supported have also indirectly introduced our colonial past into this question, which initially covered, as a reminder, Belgian works translocated by the troops of the French revolution. Indeed, the question of Belgium's apologies to the Congo, Rwanda and Burundi for our colonial past is now again on the agenda. Two recent events have helped to awaken this debate: first, a report by UN experts recommending that Belgium work on memory work and, second, an interesting colloquium organized by the ULB on Congolese human remains stolen by our Belgian soldiers and doctors at the time of colonization. These events, as well as the resolution by my colleague Miller, unanimously voted in committee – and I would like to stress this – seem to have given new visibility to the words of civil society and to the associations of Afro-descendants with regard to our colonial past. They have also awakened awareness of the policies that have expressed themselves at different levels of power and in the media in favour of in-depth memory work. Personally, I am pleased that this reflects, in my view, the beginnings of a consensus on the need for a thorough examination of this painful past and how to interpret it as a follow-up to it. In order to extend this momentum in our Parliament by Mr Miller's resolution which we are about to adopt, I call on my colleagues to take note of a resolution tabled by my group two years ago, co-signed by certain parties. It invites the establishment of an interdisciplinary and international working group to undertake in-depth analysis. A work that could help our country build an official discourse recognizing the role of the Belgian state and institutions as a whole during this period of colonization. This text, which will be discussed next week in the Committee on External Relations, could, in my view, prolong the momentum initiated by this resolution and allow our Parliament to make decisive progress on these issues, before the dissolution of the chambers; in the spirit of the constructive work proposal made by Mrs Grovonius and in order to respond to a demand from civil society which is there, patently, and which each of us has had to receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u9	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u10	Request/Demande 5(n) • 20 – Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs (2847/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u11	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u12	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3482: Jan Spooren, Benoît Piedboeuf, Eric Van Rompuy, Luk Van Biesen, Vincent Scourneau, Roel Deseyn, Dirk Van Mechelen - 3430: Jan Spooren, Peter De Roover - 3437: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Patrick Dewael - 3446: David Clarinval, Benoît Piedboeuf, Eric Van Rompuy, Luk Van Biesen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Roel Deseyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u13	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Peter Dedecker and Benoît Piedboeuf. They refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u14	Colleagues, this bill implements the fiscal aspect of the work deal agreed by the Michel I parties in the summer of 2018. This work deal includes a package of measures to activate people for the labour market and thus to increase the supply of potential workers. It concerns, on the one hand, measures to stimulate work and reward work and, on the other hand, measures to facilitate the move towards the labour market. For some people in a slightly more difficult position, that is not evident. Indeed, more and more employers have difficulty finding qualified staff to fill open vacancies. This filling of vacancies is crucial for the economy, but, more importantly, it is also crucial for the prosperity and purchasing power of the workers. It is also important for the financing of our social security. The work deal also includes a social part. We voted on this yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. That hatch will be dealt with here soon. This bill is about the tax measures of the labor deal. First of all, there is the tax exemption for regional vocational training premiums. In order to create an additional incentive for vocational training leading to a bottleneck profession, this proposal proposes, at the request of the Regions, to exempt from income tax contributions granted by the Regions or by the German-speaking Community for the purposes of such training up to a maximum of EUR 350. This is subject to three conditions: firstly, the premium is paid to persons who have started training as unemployed persons entitled to benefits; secondly, it must be a training to fill in a bottlenecks profession; thirdly, the training must have been successfully followed. Chapter 3 contains another measure to expand the offer. This measure applies to a very specific target group and includes the exemption from the transfer of the company tax to system shipping. Due to the specificity of system navigation, these companies have so far not been able to avail themselves of this exemption, which already applies to shiftwork, for example. A third measure in the context of this work deal is our proposal to increase the number of overtime that is treated as a tax favor temporarily from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020 from 130 to 180. The existing increase to 360 hours in the catering sector is maintained, as is the permanent increase to 180 hours for the construction sector. Finally, in Chapter 6, we address the most important chapter in this bill, the tax retirement trap and the activity trap for pensioners. That retirement trap isn't new. It's about a whole historical evolution, which I won't go over completely. I explained it extensively during the committee discussions, starting in 1962. I start now in 2007, because then the additional tax relief fell away for a retired person who received a little more pension than the maximum unemployment benefit. 1 euro extra gross pension then gave after tax completed 650 euro net less. The then Minister of Finance, Didier Reynders, resolved this in 2007, by ensuring that 1 euro would never exceed 1 euro of taxes. At that time, however, he did not take into account the municipal elections. As a result, it was still possible for 1 euro extra net to produce a lower pension than before. Minister Van Overtveldt solved this in 2017, so that 1 euro extra pension would never mean more than 1 euro extra personal income tax, including municipal fees. The reduction of the additional tax relief from a pension means that those pensioners are still trapped in the pension trap. That problem came explicitly into the press when Minister Bacquelaine proposed regularising years of study before retirement, because for a lot of people that net would not mean an increase in their pension. So this bill actually solves three problems. Firstly, the tax pension drop or the fact that a gross increase in the pension between EUR 15 600 and 16 600 does not, or hardly does, result in a net increase. This includes a 128 000 pensioners. The gross increase in pension can be the result of longer working hours, but also, as we have seen earlier, of welfare envelopes that increase pensions, or the purchase of academic years. Most complaints about the latter have been received by the Ombudsman for Pensions. The second problem to be solved is the activity trap for pensioners, or the fact that a retired person with a pension less than 22 000 euros per year loses his additional tax relief from the moment he also has one euro income. For a small side-serve, net income is even less. Thirdly, the same problems arise in the case of an invalidity or sickness benefit above EUR 17 297, because the first EUR 1 000 additional benefit will then be fully taxed. A benefit may not be combined with another income either. Several governments and finance ministers have failed to resolve this. The Michel I administration with Minister Van Overtveldt did. This has always been a priority for the N-VA. For us, it was unacceptable that the gross increase resulting from longer working hours should not be followed by a net increase in the pension. The Michael I government has also ensured that pensioners from 65 years of age or 45 years of age can earn unlimited additional earnings on their pensions, which can therefore be combined with an income from work. So there are a lot more people who were faced with that tax retirement. Today's solution is mainly for the benefit of employees and self-employed people from the lower to middle classes. It applies both to people who are already retired and to the future influx of pensioners. If one asks how much progress is made, this can lead to a net increase in pensions of EUR 15 to 50 per month, depending on the case. The solution that lies before us to finally resolve the tax retirement after four years actually tackles five unfair situations. That concludes my speech. More than 100 000 pensioners will now receive a higher net pension in the event of an increase in their gross pension. Secondly, longer working after tax will always result in a higher net pension. The same applies to those who regularize years of study. This is particularly true for employees who have a pension just above EUR 1 250, up to EUR 1 850 per month. It's a very large group that falls between them. Thirdly, supplementary income from pensioners no longer leads to situations where net income is reduced after tax. Fourthly, pensioners with a maintenance allowance or a small real estate income will now receive a higher tax reduction. Finally, in some cases single disabled people could also face the above-mentioned tax injustices. This bill also provides a solution for them. The N-VA is therefore very pleased that we are just getting this proposal through at the end of this legislature. We would like to thank the people of the Van Overtveldt cabinet, as well as the colleagues of the Swedish coalition, especially the chairman of the Finance Committee, who has managed to get this to plenary in good time. I hope that we will get this approved today, in the interests of many pensioners today and in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u15	Mr President, we look forward to seeing the tax side of the deal jobs go through today. The trade jobs are a coherent set of strong measures to stimulate employment, reduce unemployment and ensure the maintenance of quality social protection for all in the long term. In recent years, employment performance has been particularly positive. The ONSS figures indicate that 44,206 new jobs were created in one year, of which 42,233 were created by the private sector. It's never before seen! For the first time in decades, 7 out of 10 Belgians between the ages of 20 and 64 are working. Despite progress in reducing unemployment and in the number of jobs created, the unemployment rate remains high and the rate of activity is still insufficient. At the same time, the number of vacancies continues to increase in our country. There were 141,700 in the fourth quarter of 2018. This slows down the economy and we need to provide answers. That's the whole point of the deal job. A first essential point is coherence and complementarity with regional initiatives. The exemption from certain regional training premiums introduces an additional incentive for the follow-up of vocational training leading to a job in need. This is an important support because unemployed people often find themselves in a difficult economic situation. The training incentive will increase their net income and reduce their tax burden. It has both an economic and a social purpose. For our group, employment is the best bulwark against poverty and the best guarantee of increased purchasing power. Second, the number of overtime hours with favourable tax treatment is temporarily increased from 130 to 180 hours. The existing increase to 360 hours for the Horeca is maintained, as is the permanent increase to 180 hours for the construction sector. This allows for an increase in net wages for many workers. As for employers, they will see their wage burden ease with the exemption from payment of the occupational discount. This will give the possibility of further development and hiring. Finally, the pensioenval measure is very positive because it corrects an anomaly which led to a decrease in net income in the event of an increase in gross pensions, which was an aberration. Job creation remains the priority under the current legislature. The trade jobs are part of a dynamic of strengthening the social security and purchasing power of workers. This is a series of favourable measures for both workers and employers. It is therefore with enthusiasm that the MR Group will vote in favour of the bill as well as the social aspect that will soon come to the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u16	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u17	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3482/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3482/7) The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u18	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u19	Sustained: the amendment and Article 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u20	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 12 and 14 to 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u21	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u22	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stephanie Thoron, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Clarinval, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u24	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3541/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3541/3) The title was amended by the Commission in its draft law amending the Act of 18 March 2016 amending the name of the National Pensions Service in Federal Pensions Service, integrating the powers and staff of the Public Sector Pension Service, part of the powers and personnel of the Directorate-General for War Victims, the "Pensions" missions of the local and provincial sectors of the Special Social Security Systems Service and of HR Rail and the acquisition of the Common Social Service of the Special Social Security Systems Service, in order to authorise the Federal Pension Service to grant grants to certain federations and organisations representing the war victims and their beneficiaries." The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law amending the Act of 18 March 2016 amending the name of the National Pension Office in the Federal Pension Service, incorporating the powers and staff of the Pension Service of the Public Sector, part of the powers and staff of the Directorate-General Victims of the War, the "Pensions" missions of the local and provincial sectors of the Office for Special Social Security Plans, HR Rail and taking over from the Collective Social Service of the Office for Special Social Security Plans, in order to allow the Federal Pension Service to grant subsidies to certain federations and works which act in favour of victims of the war and their dependants". The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u25	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u26	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karin Jiroflée, Meryame Kitir, Alain Top, Youro Casier, Jean-Marc Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u27	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Temmerman, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, medical reviews at DG Persons with Disabilities often do not take place on the scheduled date. This is currently due to delays in this service. These delays have been discussed here a number of times. However, even after the difficulties have been resolved, this can happen again, for whatever reason. Since the new decision affects only the first day of the month following its notification, the beneficiary may permanently lose part of the benefit, in particular the increased part, for months. This, of course, causes a great injustice. The increase in the benefit after medical review is a right which the person concerned does not, however, receive at that time. For low incomes, the majority of the cases of debt securities can mean a world of difference. I think we can all agree on that. In the past, the Ombudsman has often raised this issue. Through this bill we have tried to adjust a sleeve. Our proposal is designed to adapt the rules so that the increase in the allowance, which is the result of an automatic medical review, starts from the first day of the month following the planned revision date and not from the actual review date. In this way, those concerned will receive, from the very first moment, what they are entitled to. This is a small bill that can mean a world of difference for a number of people who are struggling in our society. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the Social Affairs Committee, who unanimously approved this proposal, for their support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the day-to-day business will at least have had the merit of allowing some progress in favour of people with disabilities. It is true that with regard to the 1987 Allowances Act, we would have preferred a more comprehensive reform of the system. We have said this and repeated it every year since the beginning of the legislature, but unfortunately the government has lacked political will. It was therefore not possible during this legislature. However, the few small successes achieved in recent weeks are welcome, as they will have a concrete impact on many of these people with disabilities. I recall the vote a few weeks ago on the automatic application of the social tariff for electricity and gas. That's a good thing. With this text, as Mrs Jiroflée has just pointed out, we will allow, when there is a request for a scheduled revision, the decision to take effect retroactively, which is not the case today. These two favourable amendments have been the subject of recommendations from the College of Federal Mediators for several years. We have read the reports we have received. In both cases, the discussion took place earlier this year and we were able to find a legislative solution. In this case, the problem was even more acute because of the delays and difficulties encountered by the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities. People were in fact doubly penalized by the non-retroactivity of decisions. So, on the financial side, it's interesting. Like Mrs Jiroflée, I would like to thank the services of the Ombudsman for drawing our attention to these problems. It was in a constructive spirit that the discussions in committee led to the adoption of this text. I hope that it will be voted on earlier in the plenary, which will therefore be very positive, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u30	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u31	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3352/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3352/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 22 May 2003 on the procedure for dealing with the files on allowances to persons with disabilities, with a view to avoiding the undue loss of rights for persons with disabilities." In order to avoid the undue loss of rights for persons with disabilities, it is proposed to amend the Royal Decree of 22 May 2003 on the procedure for examining the files relating to allowances for persons with disabilities.' The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u32	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u33	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 55:Sonja Becq, Nathalie Muylle, Roel Deseyn, Veli Yüksel, Franky Demon, Els Van Hoof - 936: Catherine Fonck - 2373: Anne Dedry, Marcel Cheron, Georges Gilkinet Sarah Schlitz, Véronique Waterschoot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u34	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (55/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (55/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mrs van Peel, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u35	Mr President, I am pleased that this motion for a resolution is being discussed today. I submitted that a long time ago, to prove it: the document carries number 55. Since then, we have worked hard with the various groups to come up with a joint text, which is why the text has also been amended globally. The main aim of the text is to highlight the seriousness of obesity. There is a clear link between obesity and chronic diseases, premature death, cardiovascular disease, cancer, osteoarthritis and asthma. The proposal focuses on cooperation with, on the one hand, the Communities and, on the other hand, federal powers. The main focus is to conduct policies on this in a structured manner. First of all, we ask the federal government that there should be room for a care path developed by a multidisciplinary team with specialists in the first and second line, tailored to the individual concerned, with very specific objectives, follow-up and practical arrangements. In addition, on the basis of the studies of the knowledge centre in relation to the pharmacological and surgical treatment of obesity for evidence-based treatments and for the reimbursement of medicines and bariatric surgery for obese patients. In the light of cooperation with the Länder, we are asking for an effective prevention policy, an inter-federal nutrition and health plan, with the focus on obesity among young people and among social opportunities groups. In short, our text calls for a pragmatic approach to obesity at federal and community level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred to go a little further in the resolution on obesity. Mrs Becq knows that too. Some of our amendments were adopted, but several of our very important amendments were not approved. Even though I will not reopen the debate on this subject, I can already guess the outcome of the vote on our amendments, I would certainly like to put one again on the agenda, namely Amendment No 6/1 which introduces an additional recital. After the adoption of the resolution on obesity in the Committee on Health on 20 February, a week later, on 26 February, in committee, where Mrs Becq was not present, we approved a motion for a resolution on hormone disruptors. The amendment to this proposal, which I retable today, was voted down in committee. Since a motion for a resolution on hormone disruptors and their link to obesity was adopted in the Committee on Health on 26 February, I think it is only logical that I put our amendment to the vote on that point again, so that it is included in the text on obesity. It shows a consistent attitude, so that this amendment can now be included in the text before us. Moreover, the amendment, which Ecolo-Green wants to focus more on hormone disruptors, inter alia, by calling for a directive that demonstrates the link between environmental factors and obesity in Belgium, is fully based on the conclusions of the parliamentary hearings on obesity. Once again, it seems to me to be only consistent to take the point by a week's difference. It is now being discussed more quickly in plenary than we had in committee. I therefore retable the amendment, which is the logic itself, because its scope was approved in committee the following week in the motion for a resolution on hormone disruptors; the other amendments I am not submitting again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u37	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u38	Aanbeveling(n) / Recommendation(n) • 10 – Anne Dedry cs (55/8) Request 6/1(n) / Demand 6/1(n) • 11.. Anne Dedry cs ******
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u39	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u40	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 January 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 29 January 2019 for a mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the National Evaluation Committee for the category ′′ Circles in charge of the reception and supervision of women in an emergency′′. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 January 2019, a call for candidates to serve as a Dutch-speaking alternate member of the National Commission for the Evaluation of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy for the category ′′milieus responsible for the reception and guidance of women in distress′′ was published in the Belgian Monitor of 29 January 2019. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms Cécile Artus (F), psychologist at the non-profit organization ′′Choisir′′ - Ms Silke Brants (N), staff member Fara vzw - Mrs Hilde Matthijs (N), social nurse, U.M.C. Saint Peter's in Brussels - mevrouw Joke Vandamme (N), hoofdonderzoeker op het project ″Empowering abortionseeking women in contraceptive decision-making: an online contraception tool″ (European society of Contraception and Reproducive Health) Mrs Katrien Vermeire (N), Policy Officer Sensoa - Mrs Caroline Watillon (F), policy officer at ′′Fédération Laïque de Centres de Planning Familial′′ In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I propose that the candidatures of Mrs Cécile Artus and Mrs Caroline Watillon be declared inadmissible and that the CVs of the other candidates be sent to the political groups. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Cécile Artus (F), psychologist to the Asbl ′′Choose′′ - Ms. Silke Brants (N), collaborator Fara asbl - Ms. Hilde Matthijs (N), Social Nurse, U.M.C. Saint Peter in Brussels - Mme Joke Vandamme (N), chercheuse en chef du projet ″Empowering abortionseeking women in contraceptive decision-making: an online contraception tool″ (European society of Contraception and Reproducive Health) - Ms. Katrien Vermeire (N), Collaborator Sensoa - Ms. Caroline Watillon (F), Head of Mission to the Lay Federation of Family Planning Centres In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I propose that you declare the candidatures of Mrs Cécile Artus and Caroline Watillon inadmissible and transmit the curriculum vitae of the other candidates to the political groups. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u41	At the request of the proposers, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Gautier Calomne, Mrs Kattrin Jadin, Mr Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin, and Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Stéphanie Thoron) amending the Civil Code on the change of the entries "from the real separated" and "widower/widower" in the administrative acts, No. 2742/1, to be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Administration, to include it in the debate on the legislative proposal (Mrs Eric Thiébaut, Mr Laurent Devin, André Frédéric, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Emir Kir) in connection with the change in the reference "from the really separated" in the administrative acts, No. 2873/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service the draft law (Mr Gautier Calomne, Mrs Kattrin Jadin, MM. Gilles Foret and Philippe Goffin and Ms Carina Van Cauter, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Ms Stéphanie Thoron) amending the Civil Code with regard to the amendment of the words "divorced" and "widow(ve)" in administrative acts, No. 2742/1, in order to attach it to the discussion of the bill (MM. Eric Thiébaut, Laurent Devin, André Frédéric, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Nawal Ben Hamou and Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Emir Kir) on the amendment of the reference to "divorced" in administrative acts, No. 2873/1. This bill was sent to the Justice Commission on 9 November 2017. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee on 9 November 2017. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u42	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the President and the Vice-President of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. The next item is the election for the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. On 28 February 2019, Ms Valérie Arickx (N), Mr Ralf Bas (N), Ms Sarah Grandfils (F) and Mr Marc Nève (F) were appointed members of the Bureau by the Chamber. On 28 February 2019, Ms. Valérie Arickx (N), Mr. Ralf Bas (N), Ms. Sarah Grandfils (F) and Mr. Marc Nève (F) were appointed by the Chamber as members of the Bureau. In accordance with Article 24 (5) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Chamber of Representatives designates one member of the Bureau as President and one member as Vice-President. The President and the Vice-President are of different language roles. In accordance with Article 24, § 5 of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the administration of prisons and the legal status of prisoners, the House of Representatives appoints one of the members of the Bureau as President and another as Vice-President. The President and Vice-President have a different linguistic role. The document containing the list of candidates was distributed during a previous plenary session and is available on the website of the Chamber under No. 3531/1. The document containing the list of candidates was distributed at a previous plenary session and is available on the House's website under No. 3531/1. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the gallery, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u43	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u44	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Emir Kir and Mr Eric Thiébaut and Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez) on a balanced update of the KUL standard, based on the actual needs of the police areas, No. 3637/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Franky Demon and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the law of 18 September 1986 establishing political leave for officials of the public services, No. 3645/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Alain Top cs) amending the Law of 18 September 1986 on the establishment of political leave for officials of the public services as regards federal officials who are members of a Special Committee for the Social Service, No. 3647/1; - the bill (Mr David Geerts) amending the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 determining the allowances and allowances of the staff of the Federal Public Office, No. 3649/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u45	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Isabelle Galant and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) adapting various legal provisions following the transfer of certain powers from the Federal Public Service Social Security to the National Institute for Social Insurance of the Self-employed and providing for certain terminological adjustments, No. 3640/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u46	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) on the promotion of Defence's investment in dual use innovations for civil and military use, and on the offset of those investments in the NATO target of spending 2% of GDP on Defence, No. 3641/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u47	- the legislative proposal (Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux) amending the law on road traffic co-ordinated on 16 March 1968 and amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, No. 3644/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) on the replacement of air transport with rail transport, No. 3646/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u48	- the bill (Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen) laying down various provisions on value added tax, No. 3648/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Georges Gilkinet) amending the law of 25 April 2014 on the statute and supervision of credit institutions, on the introduction of a banker's oath and disciplinary regime, No. 3650/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u49	- the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen cs) Criminal Code (Boek 1 en Boek 2, nr. 3651/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u50	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (MM. Emir Kir and Eric Thiébaut and Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez) to update the KUL standard in a balanced manner and in line with the actual needs of police areas, No. 3637/1; - the draft law (Mr Franky Demon and Ms Sonja Becq) amending the Act of 18 September 1986 establishing political leave for public service personnel, No. 3645/1; - the bill (Mr. Alain Top et al.) amending the Act of 18 September 1986 establishing political leave for members of public service staff in respect of federal civil servants who are members of a special social service committee, No. 3647/1; - the bill (Mr.David Geerts) amending the Royal Decree of 13 July 2017 laying down the allowances and allowances for staff members of the Federal Public Service, No. 3649/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u51	- the draft law (Ms Isabelle Galant and Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) adapting various legal provisions following the transfer of certain powers from the Federal Public Service Social Security to the National Institute of Social Insurance for Self-Employed Workers and ensuring certain terminology adaptations, No. 3640/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u52	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Georges Dallemagne) to encourage defence investments in dual-use innovation, civilian and military, and to account for them with the NATO objective of devoting 2% of GDP to the defence budget, No 3641/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u53	- the draft law (Mr. Jean-Jacques Flahaux) amending the Law on Road Traffic Police, coordinated on 16 March 1968, and amending the Code of Criminal Investigation, No. 3644/1; - the motion for a resolution (MM. Vincent Van Peteghem and Jef Van den Bergh) for the replacement of air transport by rail, No. 3646/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u54	- the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) with various provisions on value added tax, No 3648/1; - the bill (Ms. Meyrem Almaci and Mr. Georges Gilkinet) amending the Act of 25 April 2014 relating to the status and supervision of credit institutions and stock exchange companies with a view to introducing a bank oath and a disciplinary regime, No. 3650/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u55	- the proposed law (Mr Raf Terwingen et al.) Criminal Code – Book 1 and Book 2, No. 3651/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u56	I also suggest that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Luk Van Biesen) transposing Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for the resolution of tax disputes in the European Union, No. 3653/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u57	I also propose that you take into account: - the proposed law (Mr Luk Van Biesen) transposing Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for the settlement of tax disputes in the European Union, No 3653/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u58	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u59	Mr President, in the context of the taking into account, I ask for the urgency of document No 3642/1. This is the proposal to revise Article 7bis of the Constitution in order to anchor climate objectives and principles in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u60	This is a proposal which is not included in the list of recitals because it deals with a constitutional article. But we might as well deal with that first. I therefore ask you to express your opinion on the urgency of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u61	Mr President, allow me to justify it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u62	Go on!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u63	Colleagues, as you know, we are under discussion in the Committee on Public Health on the possible adoption of a special law to include climate objectives in our legislation. However, following the advice of the Council of State, one of the ways envisaged is to reform the Constitution to include an additional sentence in Article 7bis, which allows for the adoption of this special law. We had discussions in the Public Health Committee this week. This morning, we should have adopted the articles and proceeded to the final vote on the adoption or refusal of this special law. However, on Wednesday, in committee, we agreed that as one of the means of taking into account the opinion of the Council of State was to amend the Constitution, we would first discuss and vote in the Constitutional Review Committee, convened next Tuesday. However, in order to put this item on the agenda, it seems easier for me to ask for urgency here so that on Tuesday we can decide in the review committee. Thus, on Wednesday, as the schedule has set in the Health Committee, we will be able to deliberate definitively on the special bill. I believe that everyone is aware of climate issues. We have agreed to work in this way in committee to enable everyone to position themselves with knowledge of both the special law and the way forward. I assume, in all consistency, that even those who oppose the content of the law will agree to take this debate as a matter of urgency. I thank them already.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u64	Mr President, as Mr Nollet said, the committee is meeting on Tuesday. It's a fact. As far as we are concerned, the MR does not wish to touch on the Constitution. We made it clear. We must not open Pandora's box and start a community debate. The MR does not want urgently to play apprentice-sorcerers with the Constitution while the Council of State has clearly specified that Mr. Nollet's text is unconstitutional. The MR has put the community in the fridge since the beginning of the legislature and it is therefore not the MR who will bring it out. We believe that ambitious climate goals can be achieved without amending the Constitution. We will also propose a text that speaks of a cooperation agreement, which the Council of State proposes. Mr President, we will therefore not vote for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u65	Mr President, to hear that a climate debate would have a Community dimension, except to explain to us that at the linguistic border, we are changing our climate, I admit that I do not quite understand the relevance of the argument! I know that some people are already defending the idea that there would be two democracies. There may be two climates to follow. I do not know how far they will go in the height, perhaps even at the level of the higher stars, to say that everything is subdivided. But all this lacks seriousness when we want to have a debate of principle. Let the MR say that, in the end, he no longer believes in the bill he co-signed – because he co-signed it, I would like to recall it. When he co-signed it, we all knew there were obstacles. So just say that you still don't want to upset one of your former majority partners in the end. That is what this is about, rather than the will to succeed in this matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u66	Mr President, I do not want to bounce back directly on what Mr Maingain has just said because everyone knows his humor, which is relatively inappropriate for the time being. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u67	Mr Laaouej, I would like to thank you for leaving me the floor because I was directly questioned by Mr Nollet. He said, "Mr. Thiéry, that's not what you said yesterday in committee." Mr Maingain, yesterday in committee, you could have heard our analysis. We made it clear that there was no question of rejecting one or the other. This does not mean that today we need to vote specifically on the urgency of this problem, since next week the meeting on the Constitutional Review Committee will take place. But, in the meantime, we have proposed a solution which, in any case, should be possible, whether we reach a solution with 7bis or not. That was our alternative. We have proposed a plan A and a plan B. Our plan B corresponds to your plan A, but you have not planned at Ecolo, and certainly not at Mr.Maingain, an alternative plan. That is why we must maintain our position, that is to say, on the assumption that it is important to operate with a cooperation agreement before moving towards this solution proposed by Ecolo, which may not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u68	Mr Thiéry, it is true that you have been mentioned, but I would point out that there can only be an explanation of vote per group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u69	Mr President, I wish to speak to express my astonishment at the position of the MR. He tells us that the solution lies in a cooperation agreement. The solution for what? For the climate law. But what is the origin of this law? It is based on the observation that, within the traditional institutional framework of Belgium, including and in particular cooperation agreements, climate is not being achieved. What are you coming with now? With a cooperation agreement, that is what is not working and has never worked! Your position is totally incomprehensible. A much simpler and clearer way is to revise Article 7bis of the Constitution. Why doesn't the MR want it? I'm looking for an explanation. I see only one explanation. Which one? The MR insisted on bringing the FEB and hearing it about the climate law. What did the chief say? He said to the MR, "No, no climate law." That's the only explanation I see. If there's another one, I'd be interested to hear it, but for now, I don't have another one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u70	Is anyone asking for the floor for another explanation of vote? We shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. 3642/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u71	Mr President, we call for the urgency of the bill adapting various legal provisions following the transfer of certain powers from the Federal Public Service Social Security to the National Institute of Social Insurance for Self-Employed Workers (INASTI). (No 3640) Following the reform of the Social Contributions Exemptions Commission adopted unanimously by our Assembly in November 2018, the competence of this Commission was transferred to INASTI. It is important to remember that this reform is important for the self-employed in difficulty, since it simplifies the contribution exemption procedure. It also allows them to obtain a response from the administration within one month compared to six months earlier. Since 1 January 2019, this competence has been under the responsibility of INASTI and thus more than the Independent DG of the SPF Social Security. Following the adoption of this reform, the SPF Social Security and INASTI concluded a protocol setting out the practical arrangements for this transfer of powers. However, it is necessary to provide a solid legal basis for this agreement between the two institutions so that this important reform for the self-employed can take effect as soon as possible. It is imperative that it be dealt with in accordance with the urgent procedure referred to in our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u72	We shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. 3640/1 by Mrs Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u73	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of this proposal. 3645/1. The issue is that nowadays OCMWs and municipalities are merged in Flanders, where special committees of the social service still exist, which are not necessarily composed of city council members or OCMW council members as previously defined and on the basis of which one could also take political leave as an official in public service. There is thus a gap in legislation which prevents federal civil servants from taking political leave when they are on a social committee. We want to remedy this as quickly as possible. Hence our request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u74	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3647/1, which deals with the same matter, on political leave for members of the Special Committee of the OMCW. I also ask for urgency on this proposal, so that they can be dealt with together in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u75	Requests for urgency must be dealt with one by one. We shall vote in favour and stand up for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3645/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u76	We shall vote in favour and stand up for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3647/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u77	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor on an urgent matter. This concerns the transposition of the Council Directive of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for resolving tax disputes in the European Union. It is a completely new procedure to settle double taxation between Member States, created by a different application of bilateral tax treaties. I am asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u78	We shall be voting in favour of the urgent motion for a resolution. 3653/1 by Mr Van Biesen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u79	Votes 119 Votants Blank or invalid 5 White or invalid Valid 114 Valables Perfect majority 58 Absolute majority President President Mrs Valérie Arickx has received one vote. Ms. Valérie Arickx obtained 1 vote. Mr Ralf Bas received 0 votes. Mr. Ralf Bas obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils got one vote. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils obtained 1 vote. Mr Marc Nève received 112 votes. Mr. Marc Nève obtained 112 votes. Mr Marc Nève, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed President of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Marc Nève, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. President. - I call the Group of the Vice-President Mrs Valérie Arickx received 113 votes. Ms. Valérie Arickx obtained 113 votes. Mr Ralf Bas received 0 votes. Mr. Ralf Bas obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils received 0 votes. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Nève received one vote. Mr. Marc Nève obtained 1 vote. Mrs Valérie Arickx, who has received an absolute majority, has been appointed Vice-President of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Valérie Arickx, having obtained an absolute majority, was proclaimed Vice-President of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u80	Mr Hedebouw has the floor for an order motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an order motion. As you know, we have been waiting four and a half years for our contribution. Now we only have one dot. For a party like the N-VA, which sleeps at 37 million, it is of course easy. But there are also parties that don't get much money. Apparently, you're afraid that if the PVDA gets money, Peter Mertens could get elected here. You wouldn't like Peter Mertens to be here, would you? Dear N-VAs, you can do anything to stop us, but we will get there: Peter Mertens will come in here. You don't like that, do you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u82	Mr Hedebouw, please stick to the subject of order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u83	Mr President, news has come today. In the committee it was decided to wait for the court's decision in the DéFI case. This is therefore the case that DéFI filed with the civilian. The commission said it was going to wait for that judgment. This one just fell. The services of the Chamber have just informed us of this. The judgment therefore gave defi's decision and asked the House to implement that decision and to give the allocation to the various parties who were the victims of the decisions taken by the right. The left-wing parties supported us in this procedure. I'm talking about the parties of the ex-majority. I include, of course, Ecolo-Groen in the left. This is an important decision for us. So, ladies and gentlemen, a court decision has fallen. The court clearly states that Parliament must give a dot to the smaller parties. Colleagues, of course, we are prepared to withdraw our motion so that a commission may be convened as soon as possible to discuss the conclusions of this judgment and that we finally be given this very necessary allocation to compete equally in this electoral campaign. You know, especially the N-VA, it's comfortable to have money to distract your policy. So, Mr. Chairman, I withdraw our motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u84	Mr President, our colleague reserves an announcement effect which I cannot confirm at this time. I have not had the court decision communicated, but it seems that the information is running through the halls of the House. Maybe you know more? More fundamentally, I expected such a judgment because the House has so ignored the law that it was painful to have to resort to justice in order for the legislature itself to apply a law that it passed. That's not the least of the paradoxes in this case! As for the surplus, I thank the PTB representative for applying his ideology, i.e. not to invest but to collect profits, since we have made the effort, including paying lawyers' fees! It is the theory of without cause enrichment that characterizes the true program of the PTB!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u85	Mr. Maingain, the judgement was forwarded to the House tonight at 6:30 p.m. It has been distributed to all members of the Monitoring Committee. I apologise, but indeed, small groups must also receive a copy. For the rest, in the light of what was decided last time in the Audit Committee, I will convene this committee as soon as possible with a view to deciding on the various dossiers. That's not gonna be next week. It's gonna be next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u86	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 94 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3351/9) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3351/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3523/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3523/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u88	Vote on Amendment No 44 by Rita Gantois on Article 38. (1451/7) Vote on amendment No 44 of Rita Gantois to Article 38. (1451/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the legislative proposal will not take place until next week. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the bill will take place next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u89	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3098/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3098/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u90	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Youro Casier on Article 2. (51/7) Vote on amendment No. 3 of Youro Caser to Article 2. (51/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Mrs Fatma Pehlivan voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (51/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (51/8) Kattrin Jadin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u92	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Dallemagne cs on the inscription. (2243/11) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Georges Dallemagne cs. (2243/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote No. 7 is cancelled)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote will be cancelled and we will vote again. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 50 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u94	Mr. President, I just wanted to express my incomprehension and recall...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u95	No, Mr. Dallemagne. We voted, and the decision was made. You cannot make a statement of vote after that. For Amendment No 12, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u96	Mr President, I would like to draw the attention, at least, of the MR Group and possibly of the other groups to the fact that these amendments are purely technical. They simply clarify the intention expressed in committee to extend the scope of this text to persons convicted by Belgium, whether Belgian or not. Moreover, amendments were approved in committee. However, the work carried out there was not sufficiently precise. That is why this text had to be technically amended in plenary session so that it would be in line with the wishes of the committee. That's all it was. And Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux co-signed these amendments! Vote on Amendment No 12 from Georges Dallemagne cs on request 1. (2243/11) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Georges Dallemagne cs on request 1. (2243/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 51 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 124 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Françoise Schepmans voted against. Vote on Amendment No 13 from Georges Dallemagne cs on request 3. (2243/11) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Georges Dallemagne cs on request 3. (2243/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 51 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 125 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 from Georges Dallemagne cs on request 4. (2243/11) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Georges Dallemagne cs on request 4. (2243/11) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Vote/vote 10) The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 98 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2243/12) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2243/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u98	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to insert a request 5(n). (2847/11) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Gwenaëlle Grovonius cs to insert a request 5(n). (2847/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 50 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 126 Total As a result, the amendment was adopted and the vote will take place next week. Consequently, the amendment was adopted and the vote on the whole proposal will take place next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u99	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 13. (3482/8) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 13. (3482/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 50 Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 82 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 126 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3482/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3482/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Ms Özlem Özen abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3541/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3541/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u102	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3352/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3352/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u103	Mr President, I come back to Mr Miller et al.'s motion for a resolution No 2847. An amendment was accepted on the resolution. It seems to me that in the case of a resolution, we can vote on the whole of it at the sitting. When it is a law, however, it is postponed to the following week. It therefore seems to me that we can vote today on the whole resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u104	You're right. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Mr Miller's amended resolution. Mr Clarinval's comment is correct. If an amendment is adopted by a resolution, we can put the resolution itself to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u106	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to give the following explanation of vote on this matter, as in the case of other resolutions. We no longer have a government capable of pursuing any policy, although it sometimes gives the impression of being able to do so against all rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the rules of democracy are very dear to us, and that is why we are abstaining from every resolution, including this one, from the previous one and from the next one, because they are actually meaningful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u107	Are there any other explanations of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution as amended. It will be notified to the government. (2847/12) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution as amended. This will be made known to the government. (2847/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u108	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Anne Dedry cs inserting a recommendation (s). (55/8) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Anne Dedry cs to insert a recommendation(n). (55/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 38 Abstensions Total 126 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Anne Dedry cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (55/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Anne Dedry cs to insert a request 6/1(n). (55/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Is it possible to take the view that the result of the vote should be taken as follows: Is the record valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u109	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u110	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (55/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (55/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u111	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3412/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3412/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u112	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3564/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3564/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip275x.u113	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 21 March 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 21, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 March 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 21, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
