ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I should like to ask you about the privatisation of the SNCB car park at Ezemaal station. I have, in fact, been questioned by several commuters who wonder about this privatization of the station's parking lot. The latter, which is currently free of charge, would soon become paid. Minister, can you confirm to me this privatization of the parking lot? Can you tell me what rate will be charged? Will commuters with a SNCB subscription be able to park free of charge? If this is not the case, will they be able to benefit from a preferential tariff?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u2	Colleagues, dear Mr Corthuts, the parking lot at the Ezemaal station is managed by the town of Landen as part of an agreement linking it with SNCB. If the city wishes to pay for this parking lot, it must notify the SNCB who owns it. The latter contacted the technical services of the city and they indicated that there was no question of paying for this parking. I suppose you're satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. So that was false news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u4	Questions Nos 29019 and 29068 by Mrs Grovonius and No 29102 by Mr Geerts are transformed into written questions, as well as questions Nos 29090, 29215, 29216, 29217, 29218, 29219 and 29220 by Mr. Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u5	Mr President, I thought that the questions put together under item 14 on our agenda on air traffic control and minimum services for skeyes should first be put.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u6	That is correct, Mrs De Coninck, but Mr Geerts will be patient until he is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u7	Okay, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u8	Can you agree to this? Of course, you have the right to put them now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u9	I shall first ask my question about bilingualism among train drivers. Bilingualism is an important feature of the railways, not only for employees in Brussels or those in contact with travellers, but also for train drivers and signalers, for example. Unfortunately, the train accident in Pécrot in 2001 showed that it is important that they speak both national languages smoothly. However, there are signs that this bilingualism is often still a problem in these professional categories. This may create risks, especially in terms of safety. The latter is, of course, something we all want to avoid. I have even been told that Deutsche Bahn teaches language training twice a month to its train drivers, who drive through our country. I come to the following questions, Minister. Firstly, how many signalers and train drivers who have been recruited in the last two years do not have the necessary bilingual requirements today? Secondly, has Infrabel already shut down trains because the train driver wasn't able to speak the language he wanted to enter? If so, how many times has that happened? Thirdly, what steps have been taken to remedy this problem? Fourthly, what means are available to train drivers to improve their knowledge of the other language? Fifthly, what are the consequences if train drivers, signalers and other functions fail to pass the language exam on a number of occasions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u10	Mr President, I have not yet received all the elements of the answer. Can we move on to another question while we wait?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u11	Perhaps another question should be asked first, pending the answer to this question. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u12	Minister, I have received disturbing reports of deliberate attempts to sabotage the minimum service provided by the trade unions. Apparently, they would call on the staff to send their reply on whether or not they are taking part in the strikes we have been discussing here and when the deadline was even somewhat shortened, massively and just before the end of the deadline, bringing many reactions into the system at the same time. With this massive influx of reactions one would like to overload the system and give SNCB as little time as possible to draw up an alternative transport plan, with the ultimate aim of failing the minimum service. Despite these efforts, the minimum service has so far worked very well. So the system is obviously prepared for that. Is it true, Minister, that, at the last minute, there will be a massive influx of responses from staff about whether or not to participate in the strike? That's an ordinary, factual question. Is it or isn't it? Could you give us a little more explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB tells me that there have been no such problems. Staff members shall not wait until the last moment to make known their intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u14	Thank you, Minister. So it's not true that all reactions come in at about the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u15	Mr President, Minister, punctuality is undoubtedly one of the most crucial criteria determining customer satisfaction. SNCB has drawn up a Punctuality Action Plan for this purpose, containing thirty-two action points. In addition, there is also a Punctuality Improvement Program for the years 2020 to 2022, which was made together with Infrabel. It is necessary and useful for both railway companies to develop specific action plans for punctuality. In our committee, representatives of the railway companies confirmed a few weeks ago that both companies are prepared to take steps in this area. Mr President, could you please explain the contents of the two documents mentioned? What new actions or measures are contained in these action plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u16	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, first of all I would like to remind you that at the meeting of 23 January 2019, the members of the committee already had the opportunity to address all their questions directly to the CEOs and their colleagues directly involved in the management of punctuality. I assume that all the answers to the questions you asked about the SNCB and Infrabel action plans have already been given to you. I can give you an annex to the 2019 SNCB Action Plan to improve punctuality. SNCB will develop the Punctuality Improvement Plan 2020-2023 in the coming months, also together with Infrabel, with the support of an external consultant. SNCB and Infrabel are currently at the stage of evaluating the applications received. During April 2019 the consultant will be chosen and the development of that programme will start afterwards. The contract runs from April to November 2019. The measures provided for in the plan may be communicated at the end of the contract. Meanwhile, SNCB and the infrastructure manager continue to do everything in their power to ensure the highest possible punctuality. The new action plan I have asked for must propose measures that complement the measures already taken. I take this opportunity to mention that punctuality has improved since two months, in particular January and February and also early March, compared to 2018. Since the beginning of this year, punctuality has exceeded 90%. This new reality, to the great joy of the customers and motivating the employees of both companies, pleases me. Of course, there must be perseverance, because punctuality is a daily challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that we have had a committee here where we have been able to question the CEOs and all those involved about punctuality, but that explanation was primarily about the causes of delay. The companies indicated that they would make workpoints. This committee dates back two months ago, which is why we want to know what the concrete actions are on punctuality, with, for example, the planning and the necessary budgets. We had read about a Punctuality Action Plan and a Punctionality Improvement Program. That is an important issue, hence our question. Thank you for the attachment you sent. We'll look into it. I do not think that we can oppose this, but ultimately it is the objectives on which everyone agrees, such as preventive checks at first departure. The question is how much will happen in the less-favoured areas and will happen in half or a quarter of the trains. Everyone agrees that this is one of the things that needs to be done, but that needs to be done, and we must ensure that staff are given time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u18	Mr President, as far as my question on bilingualism is concerned, question No. 29183, I am prepared to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u19	It's been noted. Debates of the European Parliament 2919, 29068, 29102, 29109, 29118 and 29119 by Mrs Grovonius, Mr Geerts, Mrs Gabriels and Mr Pivin are converted into written questions. For the first time, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. We are waiting for Mr Calomne to arrive at 29024 and 29229. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 29038 by Mr de Lamotte 2 29090 by Mr Van den Bergh. For the first time, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. We are waiting for Mr Geerts. For the first time, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. We are waiting for Mr Calomne to arrive at 29092 and 29105. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandeput (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u20	Mr President, Minister, since the tabling of my question, the news regarding air traffic controllers has changed. So I adapted my text somewhat. The air traffic controllers' discontent is growing at skeyes. After a closure of Belgian airspace on the night of 1 to 2 March last due to a lack of sufficient personnel to ensure traffic safety, the controllers carried out several rotating strikes, one of which was again this day. An agreement was reached with the CGSP union but was rejected by the CSC and the Liberal union. Negotiations continue, but notice of strike is still pending. The unions and the Belgian Guild of Air Controllers incriminate an estimated structural understaffing of 20%, a figure contested by the managing director, Johan Decuyper. Natural departures, predictable given the age pyramid, would not have been sufficiently anticipated. If the commitments started again, given the training periods and stages (first as a tower controller and then as a radar controller), the shortage of personnel could not be filled until 2020, according to the Guild. They also denounce labour regulations and internal agreements that would be abused. Several legal proceedings against the company are reportedly ongoing and a conviction has already been established by the court, which claims, in passing, that skeyes is obstructing the file, which is not a slight comment. In addition, controllers are extremely demanding in order to enable skeyes to fulfil their obligations to its customers, regional airports, and thus to maintain the number of flights scheduled in the scheduled schedule, with the consequences that this entails in terms of safety. This overload may also be increased in the light of the measures advocated by Eurocontrol in order to cope with summer air traffic. Indeed, these measures will involve a rerouting of certain flights in the Belgian sky and therefore more traffic to be managed. An email asking for your attention and that of the other members of the government was sent to you on 11 March by the Belgian Guild of Air Controllers. Mr Minister, in addition to the issue of humane management of skeyes personnel, this is a matter of safety of traffic in Belgian airspace. Do you confirm the structural understaffing of air traffic controllers estimated at 20% and the fact that it involves traffic safety? Do you have figures to object to the situation in this respect? Can you communicate them to us (e.g., changes in the number of full-time equivalents, overtime and air capacity over the last five years)? Has the Commissioner of the Government informed you of management difficulties and solutions? On the eve of the renegotiation of the management contract, while the agreements linking skeyes to regional airports must be renegotiated and the Walloon minister in charge threatens to use another operator, what solutions do you intend to promote with a view to an exit from the crisis? Finally, is it possible under the current management contract to set up reduced team work, as provided for in the safety manuals and applied at other European airports in order to guarantee the same amount of flights by spreading them over time, which, however, implies a reduction in capacity? Do you advocate this solution? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u21	Minister, the government agreement of the Swedish coalition had the ambition to introduce a guaranteed service at Belgocontrol, contemporary skeyes. That guaranteed service was to ensure that in the event of strikes or actions air traffic is still possible. Everyone's right to strike remains guaranteed, but the right to travel by air has also been guaranteed. Throughout the legislature, you have always suggested that you had every hope that the company itself would come to a solution and that it itself was working on a proposal. You also had good hopes that the social dialogue would lead to an agreement. Today we have come to the end of the present legislature. The Swedish Government no longer has a majority and no longer exists. There is also no guaranteed service at skeyes. She's probably not gonna get there either. In the case of SNCB, things have been different. The social dialogue turned out not to be a success there. We have seen a lot of strikes during the social dialogue. That is what the Swedish Government has intervened in, also thanks to our frequent insistence on it here in committee and in plenary. In the meantime, the guaranteed service could have proved its worth, including for air traffic controllers. They have been taking action for some time now, with all the obstacles to air traffic. Today I see communication from Brussels Airlines, which says that the cost of this action will be in the millions of euros and that it is really no longer workable, especially because the actions are very unreliable. Brussels Airlines is full of them. Our airport suffers image damage. People will stop using our airports and move around. That is why I have a few questions. Why didn't you work on a guaranteed service at skeyes, the then Belgocontrol? What efforts have you made in your capacity as Minister to try to secure a guaranteed service at skeyes/Belgocontrol? Could you give me a chronology of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u22	Mr Minister, the social conflict at skeyes has already been explained in detail by the previous speakers. I remember asking a question last month about leave arrangements, because it was a first signal that staff could not take their leave or other scheme. In the meantime, we see and see every day that the social conflict has increased. According to newspaper reports, the staff shortage at the CANAC air traffic control centre appears to be more than 25%. There are staff shortages in the field of technical support. Also with the technical faults service there are more and more signals that it does not run smoothly. Weird were the CEO's statements, Johan Decuyper, in the Seventh Day and certain newspapers that some people are holding the company hostage. In my opinion, it is very unusual for a CEO to make such statements in the media. That does not give me any hope of resolving the social conflict. I have the following questions, Minister. What's the matter now? What is the content of the organogram today, divided into the main categories? Is there an effective staff shortage? Where are the biggest staff shortages? What is the impact of the retirement of employees on business management over the next five years? To what extent did the management take action in this respect? Have there indeed been technical failures this year? Are we, as it were, crawling through the eye of the needle and what is the cause of these disturbances? Based on what arguments does the CEO say that the company is being held hostage? What measures has he taken or will he take to restore a regular service? As a member of the government, do you share the CEO's view that the company is being held hostage? If so, are you prepared to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you asked me about the numbers in Belgocontrol/skeyes. Here are the things that the company tells me. Skeyes currently employs 875 people: 41% air traffic controllers, 23% specialized technicians and 36% administrative staff. The number of employees increased by 11% compared to 2014. Over the past five years, the State-owned company has recruited 102 new air traffic controllers to ensure business continuity and to cope with the increase in traffic. Of these 102 candidates, 28 failed the two-year end-of-training test. This despite already demanding screening examinations. New recruits gradually take up their duties after two years of training. Thirty-two new air traffic controllers have already entered service and 42 are being trained. The number of air traffic controllers at skeyes has increased by 14% compared to 2014. The maximum capacity of the number of students who can perform an internship simultaneously in the control towers is currently reached. In order to speed up staffing, prospective traffic controllers will now be able to carry out their internship directly in the control centre without going to the control tower. Twenty-six percent of air traffic controllers are over 50 years old. The company will have to continue to recruit within the next five years to replace the air traffic controllers who are reaching their end of career. Keyes is well aware of this challenge and has put in place an appropriate joint venture training structure with Entry Point North, a Swedish academy specializing in the training of air traffic controllers. This allows supervisors to train at the Brussels site and thus avoid a long-term move to Sweden where training was organised in recent years, which was difficult to reconcile with a family and social life in Belgium. The safety of air navigation is the first priority of the company's personnel and management. It should also be noted that the number of incidents in our airspace has decreased significantly in recent years. The company registered its second best year in 2018 in terms of aviation safety. Where staff is insufficient, capacity restrictions must be introduced via the Eurocontrol system operator. This traffic regulation ensures that the workload for each air traffic controller remains within limits. In 2018, a delay of 0.06 minutes per flight was recorded in Belgian airspace due to the lack of staff in the skeyes control centre. By comparison, at the level of Europe, the average delay per flight due to the lack of staff in the European Control Centres was 0.13 minutes in 2018. You have also asked me about the social conflict of recent days. I would like to recall that the pooling system set up in 2016 had prevented strike movements. During the trade union actions, the management of skeyes found that certain staff members reported ill or reported to stop just before the start of their shift. For these late commitments, no solutions could be found to ensure continuity of operations. Since the memorandum of social agreement does not provide for a specific date of interruption of service, this opens the door to long periods of notice within which unavailability due to strikes may occur, making the organisation of services and information to operators very difficult in such circumstances. This situation required traffic regulations to ensure aviation safety. These capacity restrictions have a very important impact on the punctuality of flights for passengers and on the development of our airports. They must therefore be limited as far as possible and cannot under any circumstances constitute a structural solution. In order to settle the social conflict, the management of skeyes concluded a social agreement in the Joint Committee of 22 March. The agreement, which was approved by management and one of the trade union organizations, which, according to the rules of social consultation, is sufficient for a majority, provides for a number of recruitment and career solutions in order to strengthen structural continuity of the service. The management of the undertaking shall call on the entire staff to comply with the agreement, which shall be directly applicable in accordance with the rules of social consultation. Furthermore, the negotiation of the revision of the timetables and the careers of air traffic controllers took place in its final phase after a year and a half of discussion. Social dialogue with trade unions continues. A meeting is still scheduled this afternoon. In this context, I would like to point out that skeyes/Belgocontrol is a State monopoly company, which is a privilege, because most companies in this world are faced with competition. Such a monopoly should not be abused by taking the sector hostage. It is important for management and trade unions to be aware that a quick solution is needed in such a situation where the impact of strike movements on airport economic activity and passengers is very significant. I therefore invite everyone to take responsibility in a sector where actors, with the exception of skeyes /Belgocontrol, operate in a very competitive environment and where locations and relocations are very mobile. At the regional airport level, given this monopoly situation and in order to improve its services, skeyes aims to conclude strategic partnership agreements with each airport in order to support them in their development. It is up to airports to define their expectations for this partnership, but it is clear that continuity of services is one of the important elements on which the Regions will insist before signing an agreement or finding another solution. Finally, in terms of technical disruptions, the company tells me that in 2019 there were no technical problems that would have had an impact on operations and safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u24	Minister, thank you for the figures you have given us. It seems that there is a real difference of objectivation in the head of management, some unions and the Guild. I doubt that these people are starting rotating strikes that have an impact on the company without having a good reason. It seems to me necessary to object to these differences in a finer way. The increase in the number of controllers you refer to is unlikely to fill the gaps. You mentioned the bottling in the training courses and the fact that the students can no longer prepare their internship in the tower, but at the training centre. This worries me a little, because the circumstances are not the same in real or simulated situations. The reality is quite different at the training centre. It is also an indication of the congestion of training and therefore of a problem of commitments, which do not allow to meet the needs. In your remarks, I understand that there is no problem with personnel management or with overloading air traffic controllers. Yet there is a series of grievances on the table: non-compliance with the 35 hours per week, nor with the principle of five days of work, two days of rest. I have proof of continuous benefits up to ten days in a row. Some press articles even evoke thirty days. There are also refusals to apply for a career break or parental leave, non-compliance with seniority rules, the introduction of a system of on-call days provided for in the monthly schedule of the controllers and recorded as a day of rest, while in view of the lack of staff, this day of on-call is almost always provided. All of this seems to me to be evidence of understaffing problems. Maybe I didn't understand what you said, but it doesn't seem to me that you confirmed that. The reduced-team solution does not appear to be retained. However, this is a solution adopted by other airports. Perhaps this idea should be explored with a view to ending the crisis? I understand that an agreement has been accepted by one of the trade union organisations, but not by the others. Is this going to lead to an end to the crisis? I'm not sure. Perhaps the problem lies in the fact that air traffic controllers do not move the trade union organisation that has agreed to it? I'll let them handle this. In any case, I can only encourage you to objectiveize the facts and not put everything on the back of the keyes staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but my questions were specifically about the guaranteed service provided by the Swedish Government to air traffic controllers. You note that they still have a monopoly, while they are still controlled and paid from the State. We support 200 % of the idea of the guaranteed service. The results on the track also show that this works. Workers are still entitled to strike, but rules must be followed. The impact of strikes is less significant for travellers. Now there were days when the airspace was completely closed. That's really nasty. I would point out from your failure to answer the question that not much effort has been made in this regard. However, you were in control. You had the power to push the company forward with the guaranteed service and could, if it did not, draw the file to you and shape it by parliamentary means, such as rail. Then we should not be having this discussion here. I fully understand the debate on the social status and the workload, but now we are being held hostage by the strikes, because airspace is being closed down.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u26	Minister, I have taken note of the various sub-answers to the various questions. In the newspapers we learn in the anonymous testimonies about a completely different reality. It is then very difficult for us and for public opinion to know where the truth lies. I hope that the social conflict can be resolved and that management and the various syndicates and guilds can come to an agreement with a view to providing good customer services and the health of the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u27	Debates of the European Parliament (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 29218 by Mr Van den Bergh are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u28	Mr President, Minister, you have no doubt, like me, become aware of the latest study by the Mobility FPS on the patterns of movement of workers in Belgium. While some developments are significant (such as the decline in the car in the Brussels and Flemish regions), others are more worrying. Starting with the decline in the share of the train in travel in Wallonia since 2014. This phenomenon is particularly worrying for several reasons: on the one hand, because it coincides with an increase in car journeys alone and not a postponement towards more sustainable mobility; on the other hand, because in the Flemish Region, the same figure has been stable since 2014. The correlation between this phenomenon and the decline in the satisfaction of SNCB travellers, the deterioration of punctuality and the three billion savings imposed on rail under this legislature is obvious. All the more so as these savings first affect lnfrabel and the infrastructure manager keeps warning of the deterioration of the network, particularly in Wallonia. Trade unions too, by the way. Minister, how do you explain the fall of the train at the Walloon commuters? How do you explain that it is not comparable in Flanders? How do you appreciate your responsibility and that of your government in this evolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u29	You and your colleague asked the same question to the word.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u30	It is because my colleague would not be present that we have put her back on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u31	I would like to point out that the federal survey you are quoting concerns only the commuting of workers in large companies. So it's only very partial. The results do not reflect the overall reality of mobility in our country. Other reasons for displacement are not taken into account. The first objective of this survey is to stimulate discussions on mobility within companies through social dialogue. This is why it is mandatory, every three years, for all Belgian employers employing at least 100 workers. I note that, in view of the trends observed since the first edition of the survey in 2005, Belgian employers are increasingly active in the field of mobility. For example, more and more cyclists receive bicycle allowances, pay full reimbursement for the use of public transport, or carry out awareness-raising campaigns. The analysis of the Mobility and Transport FPS also shows that these measures are effective and make it possible to increase the use of different modes of transport of the car. However, there is still a significant margin for progress in measures that can be taken by employers. I am thinking in particular of the development of telework, which already allows the number of trips to be reduced. Many factors play a role in the development of these modal shares, such as the location of enterprises, the development of employment, the involvement of the employer in public transport subscription fees, and the level of congestion that drives commuters to choose an alternative to the car. The statistics by Region you refer to are linked to the workplace. However, many Walloons and Flemishs commute to Brussels. The use of the train is the most effective and progressive solution for the majority of them. According to the more detailed figures of this survey, the share of train use for Walloon workers travelling to Brussels increased from 52.6% in 2014 to 55.3% in 2017 – a rate higher than that of Flemish commuters. According to the Mobility and Transport FPS, in 2018, the total number of kilometres travelled by car on our roads decreased slightly by about 1%, while the number of train trips increased by 3.4% in 2017 and 3.6% in 2018. SNCB identified two reasons for this development. Firstly, in December 2016, the rail supply increased by 72 trains in and around Brussels and, in December 2017, by 5.1%. In addition, the trend continued at the beginning of the year. You mention in the preamble to your questions the degradation of punctuality. The figures for the last three months are wrong and deny your assertions. Since January, punctuality has reached a rate of over 90%. This represents a 2% increase over the same period in 2018. Finally, for the 3 billion savings, this is actually 200 million under this legislature, which is the result of the federal government's decision to inject an additional EUR 1 billion after a request of 1.2 billion effort into operating costs. The Di Rupo government, on the other hand, had imposed 900 million euros in savings, which had not been compensated in one way or another.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u32	Minister, between us, it always looks like a dialogue of the deaf. Although we highlight the problems, you don't really take them into account. I'm glad to learn that punctuality is visibly good. I think the commuters will also be happy to learn it. For investment too, there is no problem and no budget cuts have been made under this Parliament. Of which act. Here too, this is not at all what we see. With regard to the specific questions that have been asked here, I have the impression that we have turned very much around the pot and that we are putting on the table elements which, in the end, do not necessarily encourage the use of the train. I'm a little sceptical about the answers you've given me. That being said, this will have been the case in more than one resumption under this legislature. I continue to think and believe that without a massive investment in SNCB, we will not be able to achieve the objectives we want to set ourselves - but since everything is fine, let's not talk about it anymore!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u33	Minister, I would like to ask you about the resumption of RER work in Walloon Brabant. You attended, in the presence of the Prime Minister, the resumption of the ER work at the end of February. This resumption of work is certainly a good thing, after three years of interruption, but it seems that many permits have not yet been issued. Minister, can you, therefore, give me an inventory of the permits that still need to be issued? Will these delays in the issuance of permits lead to delays in the progress of the work? When the work was resumed, Mr Lallemand referred to the fact that certain trains would have to be abolished so that the work could be completed on time, i.e. in 2031. Minister, can you tell me how many trains will have to be removed and the impact that these removals will have on commuters?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u34	Dear colleague, I will answer your first question first: applications for licences for Walloon Brabant facilities around the stations must still be issued for La Hulpe, Ottignies, Waterloo, Braine-l'Alleud and Nivelles. SNCB and Infrabel do not preclude further licence applications to amend the licences already obtained, in order to meet their updated needs. The licence for Waterloo Station is expected to fall within the next five days. In addition, the commissioning schedules for the sections of lines 124 and 161 take into account, a priori, the normal time limits for granting the permits necessary for the work. At this stage, there is no delay in the work. Finally, as I have already mentioned many times, all the work carried out by Infrabel must improve supply over time and is indispensable. They generate some inconveniences that the infrastructure manager is trying to minimize. In order to minimize disruption to train traffic, Infrabel decided to carry out the night work, which represents a significant additional cost. Of course, an hour's work at night is more expensive than an hour's work during the day. But maintaining quality mobility during the work is at this cost. In order to comply with the planned RER work schedule set out in the Annex to the RER Implementing Cooperation Agreement, signed by all regional governments and the federal government, Infrabel needs a minimum time range of six hours in a row, i.e. five hours of actual work. The interruption of the traffic, slightly anticipated, allocates to the technical teams a working range of about six hours (i.e. five hours of actual work) instead of a normal service of eight hours (if the work was carried out in full daylight, in total cut-off). Although penalizing Infrabel, these provisions allow this work to be carried out by respecting the fixed timing and limiting the impact on customers. In order to make this possible, given the magnitude of the time frame for the service of trains on line 124, two trains had to be abolished, on 1994 and 1995, i.e. those departing from Brussels-Midi at 23:24 and 00:24 to Nivelles. This was communicated by SNCB on November 26, 2018. The SNCB has also studied the bus track, but the length of journeys between Brussels-Midi and the municipalities served by these trains is too penalising by bus compared to the length of journeys by train. For passengers on the 1994 train, i.e. the one leaving Brussels-Midi at 11:24 p.m., users have an alternative to the TEC bus on the W line, the last route of which starts from Brussels-Midi at 11:13 p.m. and arrives at Rhode-Saint-Genèse at 11:40 p.m. The last two evening trains no longer operate via line 124 but pass through lines 96 and 117. To enable some work to be carried out, single-track lines and services are shut down each year during the weekend. The number of these cuts and the impact on SNCB's transport plan are under discussion between SNCB and Infrabel, who make every effort to carry out the work over time, while guaranteeing an offer adapted to the challenges of mobility. It should also be noted that the responsibility of the Steering Committee is to verify on a permanent basis the compliance with the schedules and budgets allocated to the various sections of the RER dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u35	Minister, thank you for the answers you gave me. I took note of that. Your comments are a bit of a problem. In my professional background, I was CEO of TEC Brabant Wallon. I took office in 1993 and I remember that at the time it was announced that the RSP was planned for the early 2000s. When I hear that La Hulpe, Ottignies, Waterloo, Nivelles will have to be issued additional permits, I believe that this 2031 deadline will still be in doubt. It's really sorry, anyway, for all the commuters in the Walloon Brabant. But, as the adage says: it will always be necessary to rebuild what has destroyed the usury of time and the folly of men.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u36	For more information, I give you the example of the Waterloo Station licence that was filed in early February 2018. Is it reasonable to wait 14 months for the approval of the authorities supposed to issue the permit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u37	No, it's clear!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u38	And this is not SNCB-Infrabel's responsibility! The steering committee, led by Mr Hansen, shakes the coconut tree where the coconut is at a time when there is a delay. That's how I know the last licence limit for Waterloo Station is now in effect. Everyone has to take care of it. The file's been running late. The Court of Auditors' report explained the reasons for this. Two thirds of the reasons for the delay are not to be attributed today to SNCB or Infrabel for the deadlines. I'm not talking about the amounts. I invite you to read the report. At some point, everyone has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u39	It's damaging to commuters, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u40	Yes, but responsibility is not always where we believe!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u41	I agree. You give me the technical explanations but, in the meantime, the commuters do not have the proper service that was promised to them almost thirty years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Devin's 29221 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u43	Mr. Chairman, Minister, a ten-year-old child was hit by a train last Tuesday at approximately 12:45 p.m. at the Jambes crossing. He died instantly. According to the investigation, this child would have crossed the tracks after a freight train had passed and would not have seen another train arriving on the Namur-Dinant line. The red light was on and the barrier was closed. Last Thursday, the issue of securing level crossings in the territory of Namibia was again raised by the PS group in the municipal council. There would be new developments with regard to the establishment of a lane corridor. An information meeting for local residents would soon be scheduled by lnfrabel. Minister, can you confirm this information? How soon will this urgent work be organised? What date is planned for the meeting with residents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u44	Mr President, dear colleague, the death of a child is an absolute tragedy. Therefore, the clarifications I am going to give here must be used to prevent this from happening again. We must not feed either polemic. With regard to the accident itself, the investigation is ongoing, but it seems that what you were referring to is being verified. In any case, it must be noted that dangerous behaviour is increasing in the rail sector. That is why I personally supported the national "Railspect" action plan launched by Infrabel earlier this week. Every effort must be made to ensure that this type of accident does not happen again. Preventive and, where necessary, repressive measures are at the heart of this plan, since it is dangerous behaviour that is almost systematically the cause of the accident. They're the ones who have to disappear. I must point out to you, Mrs Grovonius, that at the time the investigators and journalists were on site, people crossed the same crossing again when it was closed. You referred to the replacement of a level crossing by a lane corridor. In the present case, it should be recalled that there are three level crossings – the 99 at Jambes, the 100 at Géronsart, the 101 at Velaine – on line 154 Namur-Dinant in the crossing of Jambes, and that all three are affected to varying degrees by a proposed deletion. I refer here only to passage 99, located at Joseph Materne Avenue, next to Jambes station, since that was where the dramatic accident occurred last week. The passage in question was previously the subject of a licence application in 2012. The instruction of this permit has never come to an end. It is officially suspended pending the final results of the impact study. Given this blocking, it was agreed in 2016 with the SPW (the Wallonia Public Service) that a new licence would be filed. This new permit would include both the Jambes bypass SPW project and the Infrabel project to remove the crossing, the issue of which is related to the need to create a Materne Avenue bridge. Infrabel informs me that it was agreed in 2017 that the SPW would pilot the entire action and file the application for a common permit in the course of 2018. It seems, however, that this has not yet been achieved (Infrabel must hand over its project to the SPW which must integrate it into the Jambes transport plan, but this has not yet been done). Nevertheless, Infrabel retains the will to bring this project to a successful conclusion and is fully prepared to hold an information meeting with the residents, as soon as progress is recorded in this file in order to provide all the necessary details. You probably follow the saga of the other deletion of a crossing that is in the same condition since, during the public consultation, it was asked to review the project from bottom to bottom, what Infrabel is doing in order to deposit a new planning permit for this passage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u45	Minister, thank you for these points of answer. So we're nowhere, unlike what I heard at the communal council. This is very worrying, especially since when the fire station was set up in Namur, the removal of this crossing was a decisive point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u46	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 29240, 29241, 29242, 29243, 29250, 29251, 29252, 29253 and 29254 of Mr Kir are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u47	Minister, Blue-bike's annual report showed that it was a very good year. In 2018, 224 000 Blue Bikeritts were made, an increase of 8% compared to 2017. The number of locations also increased, from 53 to 60. This allowed 200 more bicycles to be placed. So we see that mobility is becoming more sustainable, since 93 percent of Blue-bike journeys are made in conjunction with public transport. It is important that most of the journeys are replaced by the AudiTT, resulting in 62 690 car journeys that have been saved. So it's a modal shift in practice. We have had the debate here on the rejection of SNCB's participation in Blue-bike, which is now in De Lijn's hands. However, the figures show that the initiative is important for SNCB. In the Netherlands too, the system of bikes contributes enormously to the increase in the number of passengers in the NS. Minister, the impact of Blue-bike on the first and dependent mile to the station is certainly a fact. Pendants who used to come by car to the station now opt for the bike. How does SNCB see this evolution? SNCB has 552 boarding places, while Blue-bike is available at only 60 locations. So there's still potential. Is there a route for investment to improve the combination of train and bike? Blue-bike is no longer part of SNCB. How is cooperation between the two entities now going? What measures can be taken to facilitate cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u48	Dear colleague, SNCB adopted a strategy train plus bike in 2018. The action plan provides for the creation of 50 000 additional cycling sites by 2025. The aim of this is to offer high-quality bike parking in all SNCB stations. This should allow cyclists to park their bikes safely, quickly and comfortably. There is a cooperation agreement between Blue-Mobility and SNCB with clear commitments regarding the guaranteed availability of Blue-bikes and its extension from 1 294 to 3 710 bicycles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We hope, of course, that this planning will be implemented by 2025. As far as we are concerned, this can be accelerated because the system increases the potential for the railways themselves and contributes to an effective modal shift.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u50	Mr President, Minister, in 2015, SNCB stated that 190 000 additional seats would be needed by 2030, of which 105 000 would have to be achieved by 2023, in order to meet, on the one hand, passenger growth and, on the other hand, the decommissioning of old equipment that is not compatible with ETCS. However, over the past two years, we have seen a much higher increase in the number of passengers than was budgeted in 2015. The forecasts at the time were an annual growth or increase of 0.5 % as a result of the commuter's return to work. However, in 2017 we will see an increase of 3,6 % and in 2018 of 3,7 %. We also note that commuting is increasing proportionally. So there will be a shortage. The 2015 figures should therefore be adjusted. That's our vision. My questions are as follows. Does SNCB say that these 190 000 additional seats will be sufficient to absorb growth by 2030? If not, does SNCB have a plan with new figures? How many seats are effectively needed in the context of recent increases to meet train passenger growth predictions? How much new material would be needed in theory to obtain that number of seats, without taking into account the order of the 445 M7 train sets? How many additional seats can guarantee an increase in availability from 80 to 86 %? What structural deficits are there? On what lines will these deficits occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u51	Mr President, Mr Geerts, the 445 M7 vehicles will seat 50 620 train passengers. The inflow of the new material will be accompanied by the decommissioning of a major part of the park that cannot be adapted to ETCS or that is incompatible with the evolution of the comfort standards. In addition, SNCB is working to increase the security of its park and thanks to technology standardisation between M7 and M6 vehicles economies of scale will play an important role in determining the precise need for long-term seats. In the longer term, prospects up to 2030 are not reliable enough, given the uncertainty mainly linked to the evolution of customer growth. SNCB is currently updating its seating needs by 2025, taking into account the expected growth in the number of customers, with the projects to expand operation and improve the availability of materials. The number of additional materials to be purchased in the period 2022-2025, after the first M7 orders were put into service, remains to be determined. In order to meet the needs between 2025 and 2030, SNCB can either purchase additional M7 carriages or issue a new contract for the purchase of new material. It should also be noted that the rejuvenation of the material park is only an aspect to increase availability. In fine, on the one hand, reliability and, on the other hand, availability of the material are improved rather by a combination of different factors, including, for example, the organisation of maintenance. Finally, it is true that the availability of certain vehicles is under pressure. This leads to shortened compositions on certain lines over a number of days, in particular the lines on which breaks run.IC Liege/Quévrain, IC Hasselt/Antwerp via Brussels Airport, IC Ostend/Brussels Airport, IC Kortrijk/Brugge/Knokke.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with you that the availability of the material is also an important factor in generating capacity. I absolutely wanted to ask this last question because we find that ordering new material can take seven years and longer. If we also note that over the last two years there has been a growth of more than 3%, a significant growth, then we cannot wait to adjust, to wait until a program is finished, because of the lead time. This is, of course, an open, more general question. We must be able to provide an answer for the future. I hope that SNCB will further develop the simulation of the studies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u53	Mr President, this was my last question. I would like to thank the services of the various ministers, as well as of SNCB, Infrabel and all the other companies I have interviewed and the services of the Chamber for the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u54	Mr Geerts, you are ahead of me, because I was just going to say that it was probably your last question, and that is a forward-looking question. We started on the same day on the committee, we've been through a whole history together. I would also like to thank the committee secretary, De Ryck, who is also leaving Parliamentary service. We have always been able to count on him for the past 14 or 15 years. People are already ready to take over that job.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u55	Mr President, I think that is the last question asked by Mr Geerts. I would like to stress the spirit of cooperation that we have shown in times that are sometimes politically complicated, with Mr. Van den Bergh and the committee secretaries, particularly during the Buizingen accident investigation committee and other important files. I will keep an excellent memory of this collaboration. This is probably my last question-and-answer session. After the elections, we will see how long it will take to form a new government. I might stay here for a while. But in any case, I thank you, Mr Geerts, for the action you and others have taken in the service of rail and mobility in general. Beyond our political adversities, there was complicity in the service of mobility. That was true with Mr. Van den Bergh, too, but he represents himself. I'll probably find him here after June 15. We will see in what function. These are political hazards. We know them. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on your action. As a minister, I wanted to tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u56	Minister, I also did not want to turn my questions into written questions, because I wanted to see you one last time to discuss a subject that we both know well, because it concerns a line that you are also interested in. Moreover, it was by addressing this issue that I inaugurated my little passage in the House. Although progress had been made on the Arlon-Luxembourg line, further disruptions have emerged. It records, in fact, sometimes up to two hours late, so that commuters find themselves lost in the middle of nowhere, often without receiving clear information. That's why they're overreacted. For a little more than two weeks, problems have continued to flow. Trains fail sometimes due to heating, sometimes due to doors or lighting. This is the daily lot of commuters, whose patience has reached its limits. Despite the work that began again on the E411 between Arlon and the Grand Duchy, some travellers took over their cars and got into traffic. We know – since you keep repeating it – that this work is necessary. However, delays and deletions would, according to the press, result from a difference in the management of rolling stock. The CFL motors (Luxemburgish Iron Chemins) are designed to stay under constant tension. However, the procedure imposed on our drivers requires that our engines be turned off when the train has to stop operating. Belgian drivers do not want to be caught in default and therefore follow this procedure, which also involves a certain time to restart. Hence some cancellations. In principle, so-called "reversible" electric trains are designed to provide continuous service. As this equipment is operated in partnership with CFLs and given that our procedures differ from their own, Belgian train drivers – properly qualified – use power off when their vehicle has to stop. It appears that since October, SNCB has been planning to keep the equipment energized in view of the current problems. We're wondering if that's the case! Minister, what are the reasons for the disruptions experienced by commuters this March? Do you confirm that these problems could be linked to the differences in procedures concerning the energisation or not of rolling stock in Belgium and Luxembourg? Are Belgian drivers well advised to leave their equipment energized since last October? Is this directive really being implemented? If not, why not? This is a good subject for European debate!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u57	Mr. President, Ms. Goffinet, SNCB and the infrastructure manager make every effort daily to ensure the highest possible punctuality. The current problems are largely due to damage to the rolling stock used by CFLs. In this regard, I provide you with a numerical overview of the main causes of delay that affected the Arlon-Luxembourg line during this month of March 2019. With regard to your second question, each railway undertaking has its own rules. In the case of the common use of the same rolling stock, the Directives are harmonised so that each railway undertaking can make optimal use of this equipment. In the present case, it was found that some good practices of Luxembourg staff were unknown to Belgian staff. Better communication between services has helped to address these problems. Finally, SNCB confirms that the instructions given to drivers are to leave the pantographs lifted. According to my information, these instructions are now well applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u58	Minister, thank you for these explanations. Once, it's in a way. Once, it's in the other. Basically, it is time for the M7s to arrive – we have talked about it several times in this committee – but also for the new Luxembourg equipment to arrive. In any case, this is a beautiful Luxembourg-Belgium debate! But the same problems also arise between the Netherlands and Belgium. Harmonizing certain procedures would make it easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a press article echoed a joint announcement by Luxembourg's Ministers for Mobility and the Minister for Family Affairs that free public transport in March 2020 will extend well beyond the Grand-Ducal border. It would indeed be expected that the second class free of charge of the Grand-Ducal train from the Athus station would be put in place. This is very good news for train users in Luxembourg. I know the mixed status of the Athus station. It is often said that it is a bicephalic station, a situation arising from the historical situation where this station was exclusively served by Grand-Ducal trains in Belgian territory. Since this announcement, border commuters are delighted and hope that this free service can be extended even further to stations close to the Luxembourg border. Of course, each country is a sovereign State. In addition, this free ride from the Athus train station will encourage many commuters to travel to Athus to catch the train. The question therefore arises of the infrastructure needed to accommodate these additional travellers. It is essential to offer sufficient parking spaces. The station will most certainly be destroyed soon and nothing is planned for the future. Of course, I know that you informed me that SNCB was continuing a study on the future of the site. When you came to the province of Luxembourg, you also informed the mayor of Aubange. Nevertheless, the free second class of the Grand-Ducal train from the Athus station is a new and important element which it is necessary to take into account in a reflection on the future of the Athus station and its environment. Mr Minister, do you confirm that a possible extension of the principle of free second class of a Grand-Ducal train from other stations close to the Luxembourg border is not envisaged? Do you consider that the free announcement from the Athus station is a decisive element to consider in a reflection on the future of this station? Finally, will sufficient parking spaces and adequate equipment be provided in Athus quickly, since free parking will begin in March 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u60	Dear colleague, I answer your last question in this Parliament, unless there are oral questions in plenary. I don't know what your future statutes will be. As the Athus station is on the border itself, it is the only one to have this special mixed status, which is the result of a long-standing inter-ministerial agreement taken at the opening of the line at the end of the nineteenth century. It is therefore the only station where the free second class on the CFL network will apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u61	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u62	For other stations, such as Halanzy and Aubange, which are clearly within Belgium, the free charge does not apply; the Belgian national rate is therefore applied. Currently, no decision on the redevelopment of the Athus site is taken within the SNCB. As I said to the mayor, this will be the subject of the next IPP (multiannual investment plan), depending on the needs, priorities and resources available. There is also no planned budget for parking in the IPP, which ends in 2020. The layout of the car parks will be one of the elements evaluated during the preparation of the next IPP. I can only suggest one thing. During the road show for the transport plan 2020-2024, the mayor could come and express what he told me. This will probably involve the need for the destruction of this very old station, the construction of a railway station and a public hall much more adapted to current needs, and the development of car parks that would meet the demands. I would also point out that from 2020 onwards, the market will be opened up. Any company will be able to come to Belgium to drive its trains, at its commercial risk, even if it offers free transport. This will be done at the commercial risk of the person operating the trains. So if tomorrow the Grand Duchy wanted to offer transport to Brussels for free, it would still be his choice. But he will pay the network charges, of course. However, I believe that European legislation also requires a financial balance for the operation of trains on the network, since there will no longer be any public funding in either direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u63	I have no doubt that the mayor, like others, will take part in the road show to reiterate this request concerning this station and its future. This station will be used heavily, and probably even more in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1070x.u64	We thank the Minister for the countless answers he has given in this committee.
