ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u2	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Frank Wilrycx, Leen Dierick, Griet Smaers, Damien Thiéry, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Wollants. We must also have the report from the committee, in which this proposal was discussed earlier. The rapporteur is Mr Wollants, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u4	Mr President, our committee has indeed discussed the proposal tabled by Mr Wilrycx, Mrs Dierick and Mr Friart, among others. In short, this is a proposal aimed at realising the increase in investment in renewable energy, in particular as regards investments in wind energy at sea. By summer, 1.6 gigawatts of offshore wind energy will be operational. This should increase to 2,3 gigawatts by 2020 and further increase to 4 gigawatts by 2026. Meanwhile, through the marine spatial plan, an additional zone has been defined by competent minister Philippe De Backer to allow that expansion to take place effectively. At the same time, with the adaptation of the support regimes of the last parks that have been approved, there has also been an opt-out to tender in future. For example, the old system of concessions and so on is no longer in operation, but is taking a different path. This may have been obtained, among other things, on the basis of experience abroad. In this way it can be ensured that the cost of support can be as low as possible for such parks. In the discussion in committee, a number of people, including Mrs Lalieux of the PS, pointed out that the share of renewable energy should indeed increase and that initiatives should be taken. It has also been mentioned, among other things by myself, that the design moves a number of slopes forward to look at how that can happen. However, this is not a exhaustive list. The exact capacity auctioning system has not yet been established. Mr. Wilrycx devoted part of his argument to this, namely to ensure that lower density of those wind farms would also benefit the return so that the correct auction method would also reduce the cost. As a result, the Committee adopted the legislative proposal unanimously. This means that we agreed unanimously to the legislative proposal. A committee on the proposal was then held this afternoon. It was specifically about supplementing the bill with a provision on the ratification of a royal decision, taken by the government on 11 February 2019. It concerned the power outlet on the North Sea. At least there must be agreements between the wind farms and Elijah. As you know, we have opted for the Modular Offshore Grid in this area, namely the idea that they should not build the cables up to the coast but up to a central terminal. We have to make arrangements for this. After all, there are also responsibilities attached to it. An amendment was then discussed in committee to ensure that the Royal Decree in question can be ratified at the moment. It gives more certainty to wind farm operators so that things can hopefully be done more quickly. This amendment has also been adopted unanimously, so that the committee can forward it to the plenary. So I conclude my report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u5	Mr Wollants, you now have the floor to speak on behalf of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely good that we are dealing with the dossier in a different way than we have in the past. As you know, when it comes to the concession agreement of the past, the level of support was never a factor of importance. At that time concessions were granted specifically on the basis of the capacity that could be realised and the way in which it would be realised. However, the exact height was not a factor of interest in the choice of who would ultimately receive the concession. It is certainly a good thing that we are moving in the opposite direction, namely to ensure that the company can achieve this with the cheapest and least support. This is in the interests of the consumer and of our companies, as it can reduce support. As you know, for the current parks, as they have been drawn up today, it is about the duration of about EUR 13 billion of grants, which must ultimately be borne by citizens and businesses. We are very pleased that over the years it has been limited to EUR 13 billion. As you know, the Michael I administration has been able to reduce subsidies by around EUR 4.5 to EUR 5 billion by negotiation. I think we can go further into that. In practice, we find that wind farms are being built today in a number of countries without subsidies. It should be noted, however, that this is done without a building guarantee. If electricity prices are not right, then those parks will not be built. We believe that there are still possibilities in this area. I understand that a tender was recently launched in the Netherlands for a wind farm in which even the other direction was taken. The tender included that the operator would have to pay rent for the sea floor on which the mills come after the same operator had already paid to build those mills there. To date, an operator has always been paid to build those windmills. I believe this is an interesting evolution. Nor does this legislative proposal preclude such a procedure. It seems to me to be a good thing to continue in this way, and we will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u7	Mr President, I would like to point out quickly that with the six wind farms in the North Sea, with a total production capacity of 1,500 megawatts, Belgium is now in the top European offshore wind industry. The development of the offshore wind industry in our country is the result of the desire of visionary Belgian companies and a policy in favour of wind energy. Already ten years ago, the first wind farm in the Belgian North Sea was set up during a first pilot phase. Today, with the sixth park, we have entered a final phase of construction. As a result, as early as the summer, 318 wind turbines will be active in the North Sea. I wanted to speak tonight to point out that the government has made offshore wind development a priority – I said it was a priority. He has designated new zones dedicated to wind energy in the plan for the development of marine spaces for the period 2020-2026. In total, this will mean, with these new wind turbines, a production of 4 gigawatts of green energy by 2030, equivalent to four nuclear power plants. The text presented today is essential for the future of Belgian offshore wind. An auction procedure will be put in place, which should reduce costs for consumers. Through the use of the competition procedure, in combination with the placing on the market of larger plots, the aim is to considerably reduce the cost of supporting the development of future offshore electricity production in Belgium. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of our European renewable energy obligations, it is important to continue our momentum and to take all possible measures to enable the maximum development of offshore wind in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u8	Mr President, this text is very important because it positions Belgium – which was already a pioneer – as the first class in offshore wind energy, whose cost-effectiveness by load rate is very interesting for the future energy mix. You know, since we have talked about the text on the capacity compensation mechanism, that the intermittent adoption of these means of electricity generation to gas-pilotable capacities is a necessary phase for the exit of nuclear power in this country. We had commitments to meet for 2020 as part of the 2013-2020 burden sharing, which led the federal government to install a minimum capacity of 2.2 gigawatts in the North Sea by 2020. It is now practically done. So we keep our promises. For the 2030 target, we have succeeded again, having negotiated hard with my colleague Philippe De Backer to reduce consumer support for offshore wind farms to complete their closure in the period 2013-2020. This reduction has reached EUR 4 billion, so we have prevented the consumer's bill from increasing in a completely deregulated way without our intervention. As a result, we can simultaneously achieve two objectives: the development of renewable energy, while at the same time offering citizens an affordable price for clean energy. Thus, for the period 2021-2030, through this legal framework, we intend to launch the signal that offshore wind turbine operators can submit their project through a public procurement procedure, so that the price is as low as possible and that the citizen must not give exorbitant support to the development of this sector. The objective is an additional capacity which will allow all our parks to have the equivalent of four nuclear power plants in the North Sea for all Belgians, which does not mean that in production it is the same. We always make the mistake, but we have to correct it. Production relative to nuclear power plants is twice as low as the average wind blows only 40% of the time over a year. However, it is still a remarkable power in terms of clean electricity generation for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u9	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u10	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3581/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3581/8) The title was amended by the Commission in "draft amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to establishing a competitive tendering procedure for the construction and operation of production facilities in the sea areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium and ratifying the Royal Decree of 11 February 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity generated from renewable energy sources'. The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to introducing a competition procedure for the construction and operation of production facilities in marine areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium and ratifying the Royal Decree of 11 February 2019, amending the Royal Decree of 16 July 2002 on the establishment of mechanisms for the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources". The bill has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u11	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u12	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u13	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report to you on the work of the Constitutional Review Committee, or at least on the work carried out during the sittings on 27 March and 2 April, to prepare a declaration on the revision of the Constitution. You will find in my highly provided written report a discussion of the specific issues that the discussion of a particular provision of the statement has raised. I'd like to send you back. For the moment, I would prefer to mention some cross-cutting issues that have emerged during our discussion. These cross-cutting reflections revolve around three themes: the author of the declaration, its purpose and the procedure for drawing up a revision declaration. If I question the author of the statement, I obviously read the constitutional rule. It is the legislative power that makes the declaration of revision of the articles of the Constitution: the House, the Senate and the government. This has not failed to raise a question in the committee. What is the government doing? Where is he? What can he or should he do? When we have issued our statement, and the Senate too has fulfilled its duty, is the government obliged to follow our statement or does it have freedom of action in this area? Basic question. As you know, this issue has been the subject of a note from the Chamber's Legal Service. You also know the answer. In law, there is no legal obligation, even for a government in day-to-day affairs, to align itself with the will expressed by either House. You have read this note. This position has been vigorously challenged by political parties that have, moreover, spoken of a democratic hold-up. Others felt that this decision was not ours. We are not responsible for giving instructions to the Senate or to the government. It is up to each of us to decide according to his or her jurisdiction and according to his or her usual rules of operation. A second question arose concerning the author of the statement. Should we consider this particular situation, namely that, since December 21, 2018, the government has been in day-to-day business. For some, this does not change anything and there is no reason to wonder about the powers of a resignationary and minority government. The House is us! She has to follow her own path. She retains the fullness of her skills. It can therefore include in its declaration the articles it chooses, without being slashed in its choices. For others, the issue is essential. The day-to-day government is limited in its activities, in the exercise of its powers. At the end of the process, he will have to remember the cautionary instructions that he needs during routine business and that require him to exercise caution or reserve in the exercise of the examination of high-level political files. This question was used in the debates: should we really embark on unnecessary work? From this perspective, only cases in progress, those that could be dealt with by the current Constituent Chambers, can be listed in a revision declaration, with the clean-ups that must be carried out, for example because article 12 has been revised in the past years. These are two questions relating to this fundamental problem: who can declare a revision and what are the modalities for the exercise of this function? The second theme of our reflection in committee was the very subject matter of the revision declaration. With a first question that was methodological. How do I prepare a statement? How do I indicate the subject matter of a possible revision? Do we need to identify articles, article numbers? Should the meaning of the revision be indicated? How should the revision take place? Is it necessary, as Mrs Onkelinx has asked, to justify the choice we make? Targeting the determinations of the provisions - for example, not by designating an article but a paragraph of that article or a sentence in a paragraph or subparagraph, a word in a provision? These are the fundamental questions that we have asked ourselves. After lengthy discussions, we have stopped to a methodological rule. I do not know whether it is simple or complicated, but we have reread article 195 of the Constitution, which says that it is up to us to designate provisions that are subject to revision. Clearly, we need to designate articles - I was going to say rough articles - without any indication of the meaning of the revision that might take place and without regard to the different options that these items may eventually generate. No motivation, except in developments, but everyone is free to make the developments they want. No indication of meaning, and if meaning is given, it does not bind the constituent authorities that will intervene after us. Several of us have indicated that the situation is still different when it comes to adding an article to the Constitution. If it is a question of drafting a new text, the least we can do is to say about what, on what subject, what theme should be defined. The situation is also different if a chapter or title is subject to revision. Again, it seems appropriate to indicate the meaning of such a reform. This is not a personal indication but it is clear that this way of working is not without disadvantages. Some want the revision of article x to go in that direction and others want the revision of the same article to go in another direction, sometimes quite contrary. It's kind of the ink bottle. I come to the second question about the very purpose of the declaration that we have had to consider. It's a bit more procedural. Why? That was already said earlier at the 2:15 p.m. discussion. Usually the government takes the initiative. He is the author of a draft revision declaration. He does not submit it to us as a bill. He expresses, in a way, his intentions. He tells us how he believes it would be possible to design a statement. It is up to us to draw inspiration or to draft the statement that suits us in the same direction. Here, obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we know that this is not the situation. The government has not drafted this type of project. We worked on a shaved table. The government has declared a lump sum. I say this with a blink of an eye but in a way, the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang did us a favor by saying that we had to revise all the articles of the Constitution. So it was now - and that is what we have done in committee - that we should take the articles one after the other from Article 1 to the last article of the Constitution, asking ourselves whether or not to open them for revision. The third issue relating to the very purpose of the revision declaration is a somewhat more general one. Is it permissible to make a comprehensive declaration to revise the Constitution? Two training courses answered the question in the affirmative: N-VA and Vlaams Belang. The trainings considered that, while it was possible to determine revisable provisions, it was also possible to list all the articles of the Constitution in separate proposals. [[Other political groups have, not in the same spirit but perhaps in a comparable way, tabled proposals in a single document and not in separate documents.]] Resist the substantive question that we have not really decided. Is a comprehensive reform of the Constitution acceptable or - as other political groups have considered - partial revisions from limited lists of revisable articles were only conceivable? I repeat, we have not really resolved this question. Mr President, I shall address the third issue. After the author, the subject, there is also the question of procedure. In the course of the discussions, an important question emerged: is the review procedure, on balance, not too cumbersome? Isn't she too paralyzing? Is it democratic enough? Shouldn't article 195 of the Constitution be included among the revised provisions? As Mr Dewael said, would it not be time to update the provision in question? Should we not also take into account the revision of the Constitution which would be justified by the adoption of international treaties which bind Belgium? Some of us in the committee have said that, in the end, only the revision of Rule 195 was involved, and that everything else, in the end, was incidental and had no real interest. Isn't that right, Mr. Vuye? I'm not judging. I am rapporteur: I do not give my opinion. Others felt that there was still reluctance to express this approach. Was not prudence to engage in such a review? Some told us: "Beware of engaging in a community adventure". Rule 195, I note, as in my report, is not included in the list of revised provisions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that is what I can move forward as a cross-cutting reflection on the work of the committee, beyond, of course, the specific issues which you will find in the documents that have been submitted to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u14	I propose that we allow the speakers in the general discussion to speak, as usual, in order of order according to the number strength of the various groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we do not decide what happens to amendments to the Constitution. Today, we are defining the limits and determining the area within which the next Parliament will be able to debate anything after the voter has made his choice. Our party's attitude and starting point were very straightforward: it should not be that we control the electorate in it. It is not appropriate to restrict the scope for the next legislative term in the current composition with the first limit set for the revision of the Constitution, which is to declare it open to revision. That goes a little bit into the determination by the Venice Commission of the trick used in the sixth state reform under Article 195 that the procedure laid down in Article 195 is one of the most rigid procedures in the world. We have placed an extreme restraint built in or extremely high hurdles to amend the Constitution. We would not be able to overcome the first hurdle, the possibility of revising certain articles and certain articles, in that rigid path today, by declaring de facto all the articles of the Constitution subject to revision. Then, of course, it is up to the next Parliament, by the appropriate two-thirds majority in both chambers, to decide what debate might actually give rise to a rewriting, redrafting and, where appropriate, supplementing of articles in the Constitution. That is a fairly clear attitude and it has surprised us that we were the only ones who drew that line, and that in a consistent way. Some have adopted an attitude which means that we can talk about everything that is agreed and that any reform can be called into question when it is acceptable to them, while the rest is called adventures, risks and chaos. This attitude shows little respect, both for the electorate and for the next Parliament. I do not see how the word 'adventure' can be linked to a possible decision supported by two thirds of the members of both Chambers. How can it be called adventurous to allow two-thirds of the members to make adjustments? In de behandeling had een collega het over "the risk of calling into question the stability of the state". Een andere collega zei: "This is the door open to adventure, the community carousel, a risk taking". Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, these wordings are linked to what might be done by a two-thirds majority in this Chamber. It is our belief that la stabilité de l'Etat will be put at risk if a possible two-thirds majority is taken away from the freedom of debate and decision-making in advance. I would like to give a few examples to illustrate that we have interpreted this openness, that invitation to voter and next Parliament very widely. Some colleagues have made a number of articles subject to amendment because they would be able to introduce the federal constituency or climate law, which failed in this house last week. We say very consistently that we are opposed to this idea of the federal constituency, as it is filled in by the neo-Belgian movement in this house. We are also opposed to the climate law because it is going to shift the Community's balance in the other direction. We are opposed to it, but we do not wish to restrict the debate on it in the Chamber today. If the next House does indeed find a two-thirds majority to amend the Constitution that is not acceptable to us, and if we lose that political battle in this House and find that two-thirds majority against us, then we, as good democrats, will accept it. That is actually the only decent attitude for anyone who takes home and voter seriously. So we do not just want to open the door to the things that are in our own programme. In fact, I would like to count on everyone's openness once again to follow our lead. We will table an amendment to make Article 195 subject to revision. Good friends, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that we may be putting that lock for five years. Five years is a long time. I will not mention names, but there are groups that will change their minds in three days' time on the revision of the Constitution. I've calculated it for a moment, a five-year legislature lasts 1 827 days, two more leap days are added, then there are 1 829. If we divide those 1 829 days by three, then some groups may be able to change their minds 609 times in that period. So there is absolutely no way that you will encounter our group at some point in that tour. That is not entirely excluded in advance. But, imagine this happening, if you see the light on certain things where you don't see it today, then today you have closed the door so that at that moment you can't cut the switch so that the light can shine. Of course, that would be a missed opportunity. We saw this lack of openness just now, when a famous bridge builder from Green said during Question Time: I want to work on the Constitution without nationalists. He meant the Flemish nationalists, not the Belgian nationalists, because he belongs to that group. It is a fact that the big bridge builder there blows up thick bridges and doesn't even seem to see the inconsistency of his curve track in this respect, and it would be nice, should his group learn a lesson from the N-VA about openness and real bridges. It would be nice, should he learn a lesson from N-VA about the possibility of having discussions that happen not to fit into his own program. The fact that such a scare is being put up in the Community is a little surprising, because the intention of Article 7a is precisely to introduce a Community amendment. I would like to point out that last week a number of colleagues in the Committee on Health voted in favour of refederalisation. These are also Community steps. This discussion must also be open. But, again, consequence is in this far-fetched. For a moment I thought that Prime Minister Michel had been on our side when he said: I will fight to the maximum against the risk of Community chaos. I thought he would certainly declare those articles subject to revision. In fact, we are in permanent Community chaos. In fact, he would have thought very carefully if he had fought against the risk of Community chaos when the sixth state reform was dealt with here, which he was very much in favour of at the time and of which we can now see the consequences, the de facto intransigence of this structure. That is why I would like to ask you here, ladies and gentlemen, why you are afraid of the electorate. It would be nice if I could get an answer to that question later, but I'm afraid so. Why the fear of the ballot box? Why the blocking of the social debate in advance, before the voter was able to speak? I would like to know what your answer to that is. We need to look at things on a positive side. Unfortunately, we have just been told quite clearly, from the mouth of the President of the MR, that we are running a serious risk of abuse of power here. I will not deal with the legal debate as to whether or not it should be. What is being done may seem to be done in constitutional law, but I would like to deal with the debate on democratic decency. Mr Dewael said, 'Onkies', who we know for the choice with which he always chooses his words, because of course he meant something else, but 'unkies' I already found a good, circling description of what he actually meant and has been debiting here for several weeks. We also find Mr Calvo here, which proves our openness once again. He, too, rightly opposes this "risk of abuse of power." So I would also like to highlight a number of positive elements. Originally, up until a few weeks ago, there was a broad impression that no article could be amended. The committee's work resulted in 40 articles. I do not know whether we will finish this work here, but it is noted that the fear of a number of discussions has at least broken through a little bit. We also noted in committee this week that the Prime Minister, Mr Delors, wanted to adhere to the list of articles that were declared subject to revision in 2014. It seems therefore that Parliament, which was created after the 2010 election, is given more importance than the Parliament that would have been created after the 2019 election. A number of articles will be subject to revision. The creativity of lawyers is unlimited. There is no doubt that this will open up new opportunities for the restructuring of the country as well. Mr Delpérée said it earlier. I have insisted in committee, it is less clear in the report that we would not discuss the reasons, except for new articles, because then these reasons are binding. I have insisted that we should not discuss the reasons why we wish to declare point A or point B to be subject to revision, because we do not take account of this motivation, even this legislature, as you recall 24 hours to 48 hours of arrest, and this is never an obstacle to doing it for other reasons. Then, of course, it would be awesome to start talking about motivations which, when they come to an end, do not matter. I am glad that we have found each other in that and that we have left that exercise behind. Mr President, I have already said that we will no longer propose all the articles for revision. I expected more enthusiasm than Mr Dewael alone. Given the advanced hour, I would take advantage of your kindness if I were to do so, but we will nevertheless table one amendment, in which we would like to declare Article 195 subject to review again and thereby give you the opportunity to join the democracy and the freedom of the citizen to express his voice in full openness and to hope that this will work properly in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all you will allow me to thank Francis Delperée for the quality of his report. I take this opportunity to tell him that we were certainly lucky to have such an intellectual among us, who participated in our work and who is a great humanist, particularly attached to the defence of individual freedoms. Thank you! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16 of the Declaration of Human Rights states: "Any society in which the guarantee of rights is not guaranteed or the separation of powers determined has no Constitution". That is, of course, the importance of this founding text of rights and freedoms. This explains why, in order to change it, there is a modality that requires reflection that goes beyond media time, the effervescence of the moment and even a legislature. That is what Article 195 of the Constitution, to which my group is committed, wants. Without it, the Constitution would be easier to change than a special majority law, ultimately risking becoming a paper cloth. On the other hand, I would say that the Constitution is not a sacred text, a Bible, a dogma. It must be in line with its time, embrace the evolutions of society and take into account the upheavals of the world. In five years, the world has changed. Terrorism has raised questions about our identity and meaningful values in our country. Then the fear of the enditude of the world was expressed: young people point at us and want the climate and social solidarity to be better protected. Secondly, associations such as the G1000, citizen movements and yellow vests all call for more participatory democracy. As such, we see the importance of the engagement of our fellow citizens in Internet forums. Besides, the world has changed. The enemies of freedoms, the enemies of lights are wreaking havoc, including in very close countries. I think we need to learn from it. The Constitution must include answers to these fundamental questions. Otherwise, the lid of the pot is going to explode under pressure, and this could undermine our democratic model. On the other hand, I would say that the Constitution must protect us from those who question it as the guarantor of the unity of the country. Belgium needs peace, including community peace. That is why we are fully committed to this refusal to open an article that would lead – yes, I say, Mr De Roover – to a new institutional adventure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, more precisely, what is the Ariane thread followed by the PS for this revision of the Constitution? Before I address it, I will say a few words about the Prime Minister's attitude. I was returning from a funeral ceremony of a friend and was unable to participate at the beginning of the current questions on this specific issue. But I have read what Mr Michel said and I can tell you that I was shocked by what he said. Of course, the government has the power – I would almost say the duty – to draw up its own list of articles to be revised. But a government that is resigning, which is a minority, cannot, in my view, refuse to establish a list that is consistent with the common list of the House and the Senate. This would even be contrary to the jurisprudence of the Council of State because, by refusing this common list, it would make an act of refusal for which it does not have the support of the majority in Parliament. This is not a routine case, nor is it an ongoing case, nor is it an urgent matter. It would be above all an insult to national representation and deeply anti-democratic. I regret, moreover, that the custom has not been followed, namely the consultation with Parliament. I've been working on a lot of constitutional review statements from the government's position. Every time, we took the trouble of consulting with Parliament. There's no agreement here! A tweet from time to time refusing Parliament's work from the outset. That's not right! I regard this as a derogatory attitude towards Parliament. This shows once again the lack of consideration on the part of Mr Michel for our assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, my group is first and foremost in favour of a preamble to the Constitution. Belgium is a democratic State that enshrines cultural and convictional pluralism. This principle is an indisputable asset on the condition that every citizen adheres to it. The central question is, in times troubled by identity folds as we know them regularly, how to prevent the societal fabric from falling apart and leading to a radicalization of thoughts and a retreat on oneself. Faced with the disruption of the world and the tensions it generates, the Constitution must be a clear benchmark on principles, rights and freedoms. But that is not enough! Our fundamental charter is too unknown, not clear enough. Too many citizens have not integrated the value of a text whose basic meaning and requirements they do not always perceive. It is therefore necessary and in order to repeat the expression of an expert whom we have heard in committee "give a spirit" to the Constitution. Our fellow citizens must feel part of a social contract that organizes our life together. That is why, in our view, this preamble must be accepted and conceived in a participatory manner. In Ireland, for example, in 2012, this exercise produced more than interesting results. The preamble would thus have symbolic, pedagogical and political significance because it would aim at greater social cohesion within our State. That is why we support the amendment to include a preamble in the revision declaration even before Article 1 which we refuse to open for revision. For the rest, just as on Tuesday in the Constitutional Review Committee, the PS will now refuse any articles of Community scope. You won't be surprised. On the other hand, we will support articles that better protect the climate and give clear objectives to climate policy. Secondly, we call for the opening of Title II, which clearly affirms the primacy of positive law over any religious or philosophical prescriptions, so that the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion can be clearly included, which excludes constraints that affect the exercise of these freedoms, and also allows the obligation of impartiality of the State in its dealings with its officials. Thirdly, we want the opening of articles to provide for a clear rule relating to the abuse of rights in the exercise of individual freedoms, when this abuse calls into question the basis of the rights guaranteed in the Constitution. Fourthly, we want an article to better combat liberticide parties. Everywhere, in international symposia, Belgium is pointed out as being particularly frileous in defending its democracy against those parties that are fighting the very concept of democracy. Under this Parliament, we have seen one or the other example. We are too soft to defend our democracy. That is why we will support an amendment to the text voted in the Committee on Constitutional Review. Fifthly, we want the registration of new rights, such as the right to water or the right to internet neutrality. Sixthly, we want an article allowing for bilingual education in Brussels. The Dutch- and French-speaking parties ask for this in Brussels. They are supported by our university educational institutions, and by most of our colleges of the burmese and aldermen and our communal councils, if not all. I think this is interesting and important for cohesion in Brussels. Seventh, we want to allow for gender parity in governments. I have denounced him since the beginning of this legislature. We're in hindsight. There are never permanent rights acquired for women. That's amazing! Little by little, we had come to see women's influence becoming more and more powerful in governments. We had arrived at a joint kern. Under this government, there was not a single woman in Kern, who is the centre of political decision-making. That's not right! It is therefore necessary to move forward, to include this right in the Constitution. Finally, we are in favour of participatory democracy. I explained it to myself. A whole series of groups work and demonstrate to get it. Of course representative democracy is ultimately the cornerstone of our democratic model. This does not prevent us from having, alongside this representative democracy, participatory models in our Parliaments, for example in the Senate or outside, alongside the popular consultation that already exists, referendums of citizens' or parliamentary initiative that make it possible to revive democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, in two months' time, this Parliament will be composed of some of you, but also of new elected officials and new elected officials, of whom I believe there are a lot of young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u17	Mrs Onkelinx, I listened very carefully to your speech. You're almost at the end of it. I won't have a debate, but I notice one thing. You say that Community peace must be preserved and that you do not therefore agree with certain articles which have a Community impact. If you want to keep peace, you will not achieve it by silence. If we want to achieve peace, it starts by listening to each other, not talking to each other. That is my only response to your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u18	I explained it to myself. I explained why the Constitution must evolve to modernize its democracy, to better support individual rights and freedoms. But democracy must also protect itself from separatist aims, from those who want to counter the unity of the country and who want to demolish the democracy we have patiently built. That is why all articles of Community scope, by far or near, will be the subject of a negative vote by our party.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u19	Mrs Onkelinx, I am somewhat surprised by your reasoning. You say that your party does not want state reform and therefore does not want to open Pandora's Community box. At the same time, however, I can hear you say that you would like to declare an article subject to review which gives additional powers to the Brussels-Capital Region, namely for bilingual education. In doing so, you are also implementing a state reform. This is also a Community matter. The difference, however, is that this is a Community intervention that you believe is on the right side of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u20	I disagree!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u21	According to the case law of the Constitutional Court, bilingual education in Brussels is still a federal competence today. What you are proposing can also be achieved in another way, in particular by means of a cooperation agreement between the Flemish and French communities. You are just choosing a way that amounts to a state reform and gives additional powers to the Brussels-Capital Region. You're just doing cherrypicking. According to you, there are good state reforms, which are good for the French speakers, and bad state reforms, which are demanded here by a number of Flemings. That is the conclusion I draw from your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u22	That is why I took the trouble to say, with regard to bilingual education, that it was requested by French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people in Brussels. This is in line with the resurgence of a Region that wants to be bilingual and respects both linguistic communities, no matter what their weight! In this context, I am proud to say that I am committed to this bilingual Region and that bilingual education, intended by French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people, will better support the wish enshrined in our Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u23	Mrs Onkelinx, since I've been sitting here, I know that you've got some nerve and that you're about to say everything that suits you. By saying here that the Brussels-Capital Region is bilingual and that language legislation is respected there, while the Vice-Governor's report shows that, for example, decisions on contractual matters are only 4.4 percent in line with the language law, you deny the light of the sun. Brussels, Mrs Onkelinx, that is like Article 7a: the Constitution states that it is bilingual, but you know very well that this is not the case in the field at all. You are also well aware that the French speakers, including your party, have always done everything from the great language agreement of '62-'63 not to apply the language legislation in Brussels and not to turn it into a bilingual region. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u24	I can tell you that I am proud that in Brussels, the French- and Dutch-speaking parties have decided to remain deaf to those who want to make our capital a battlefield, particularly a community. I am pleased to see that the vast majority of Brussels' democratic parties are following this path. This was seen on the occasion of the results of the communal elections. The separatist or nationalist parties, which do not like this bilingual Capital Region, have had a lamentable result. I'm glad. It is bilingual Brussels that wins. This is very important to our country. That is what I wanted to say, ladies and gentlemen. I come back to my conclusion. I was therefore saying that in two months' time this Parliament will be composed of some of you, experienced, but also new elected officials and new elected officials, including many young people, which is good. We must give you and give them the keys to instilling modernity in our country and our democracy. That is also the case: to protect this country, to support it and, I dare say, to love it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u25	Mr President, I will be very brief because I have already made the point of view of the MR in committee, and I recalled it earlier on the occasion of the parliamentary question addressed to the Prime Minister. As far as we are concerned, we will follow the dominant doctrine which was referred to by our colleague, Mr Delperée, in committee and when presenting his report. We believe that the government in day-to-day affairs will not be able to go beyond the list that had been established in 2014 by the previous government. The MR adds a second filter. Indeed, we do not want articles that could be used for community purposes to be placed on the table for the next government's discussions. It is well known that some articles which, a priori, do not seem to have a Community connotation can be modified. This makes it very easy to turn a text that was not Community at its core into a Community text and to create perilous situations, as the history of our country has shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u26	Mr Clarinval, you claim that in current cases a government can only extend the existing declaration of constitutional revision. That is an outdated argument, because in 2010 the then government, of which your party was also a member, left that precedent. Let me put it to your outdated thesis that, in your opinion, a government in current cases can only extend the old declaration. Could you please explain to me the legal basis for the second filter you have just mentioned? After all, you say that you want to take out the articles in the 2014 declaration. There is no such legal basis, Mr Clarinval. What you're saying is internally contradictory. What you're saying is legal nonsense. You'd better shut up instead of making a fool of yourself. After all, it is one or the other, but never both together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u27	Mr. Vuye thinks my position is ridiculous. I'm not a constitutionalist. I just have some basic notions in law. I would just like to remind you of a few clear points. We're not in the government, Mr. Vuye. It's the House. The government will deal with Mr.Di Rupo's list, and that will be the government's decision. As far as we are concerned, I give the position of the MR. If you do not like the position of the MR, you do not have to adhere to it. But as far as we are concerned, our position is to start from the Di Rupo list and remove the Community elements. We appreciate, at MR, the community elements, as you yourself appreciate the elements that please you. As far as we are concerned, these are the filters that we will apply. We believe that there are elements in Di Rupo's list which suggest that certain articles are Community and we do not want them to be reopened. In the list that was voted in committee on Tuesday, other items were added to Di Rupo's list. We will, of course, oppose it. Mr Vuye, Article 1: "Belgium is a federal State". If we touch on Article 1, there will certainly be Community connotations. I suppose we will agree on this. I understand that the colleagues at the N-VA will introduce an amendment to Rule 195. I assume that you also agree that this article has Community connotations. You can find that my position is ridiculous. I tell you that my position is consistent and clear. That's the one we're applying to our group. It's up to you, with your entire group, Mr. Vuye, not to apply it. But I do not allow you to find my position ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u28	Mr Clarinval, during your question this afternoon I also heard you describe Rule 63 as an article which would have been loaded at Community level. Can you explain to me what is charged with it at Community level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u29	Rule 63 deals with the composition of members of the House, the number of members of the House of Commons. If we start to play with the balance in the House, it's obvious that we're dealing with community balance. If we add Antwerp MPs to the detriment of Luxembourg MPs, there is still a Community aspect. You don't have to be constitutionalist to understand that!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u30	Mr President, I am very surprised at Mr Vuye's question, which has read Rule 63 in all its paragraphs. He is well aware that the Di Rupo Declaration only saw the revision of Article 63, § 1, § 2 and § 3, but not § 4. What is written in § 4? It states that the legitimate interests of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking people in the former province of Brabant must be guaranteed and that special arrangements are provided for by law. If this is not both a Community issue and at the same time an essential element for the pacification of public relations at the heart of the country, I do not know what to say!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u31	Mr Delpérée, you know as well as I do that the initiative relating to Article 63 of the Greens comes and their intention is to establish a federal constituency. If you are already afraid of it at Community level, then you are afraid of your own shadow at Community level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u32	Mr. Vuye knows very well that the constituent is not bound by the pre-constituent. This answer is sufficient for Mr. Vuye to understand my answer. Mr President, I have reminded you of the position of the MR. We remove from Di Rupo's list the elements which, for the MR, seem to have a community connotation because we do not want the next legislature to take place in a climate where the community debates are re-emerging. This is a dead end. We've known her in the past. We believe that there are particularly important economic, social and environmental issues to be addressed in the years to come. That is why we will support a dozen articles, namely Articles 2, 4, 5, 7, 7bis, 12, 21, 22, 23, 25, 28 and 29. Those are the winning numbers I'm giving you here! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a legislative term, it is, unless mistakenly so, and I am looking at my good colleague Eric Van Rompuy; I think that a government of Martens-Gol has ever ended without a declaration of revision, the custom to debate a declaration for the revision of the Constitution. Sometimes that leads to emotions. My experience, after this legislature, is that this has led to more emotions than in the past. The fact that the proposal for revision of the Constitution was not initiated by the government, but by Parliament, will certainly not be strange. Colleagues, I have also listened to the emotional debate this afternoon, which you held together with our Prime Minister. Let us be clear: when a prime minister comes to this Parliament, he has one capacity, being that of Prime Minister. When a prime minister comes to this Parliament, he speaks on behalf of the government. We did so in December, and we will continue to do so. We will always appoint our Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of this country, as Prime Minister in this assembly. That is the minimum respect that can be shown. That, about this afternoon. Colleagues, I am aware that some proposals for revision of the Constitution tabled by our group are sensitive. I am aware that some of my fellow Members have some articles, rightly or wrongly, which have a Community dimension. Let me be clear on behalf of our group. We have made certain suggestions on Article 1 and Article 195. I repeat what I said in committee: our proposals had and have no Community objective. Our proposals had and have no Community connotation. The challenges of the next legislature, like the challenges of this legislature, are primarily socio-economic challenges and, secondly, security challenges. That was the mission of this government, which will also be the mission of the next government. Moreover, institutional reforms do not require a constitutional change. Institutional reforms require agreements. And agreements require consultation: consultations within the Community and with the other Community. Agreeds take time and preparation. If it is still necessary for Belgium to implement reforms, and sooner or later this will happen, French-speaking and Dutch-speaking will have to do so together. I paraphrase a former Prime Minister: a majority cannot unilaterally impose its will on a minority and a minority cannot unilaterally abuse its right of veto under the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to come to some of the important proposals that have been tabled and which have been discussed in committee. The position of the CD&V Group on the proposals relating to the preamble is well known. The CD&V group is absolutely opposed to that. It's mustard after dinner, perhaps less respectful. A preamble shall be drawn up together with a constitution or a new constitution of a country. This is done because the preamble is a unity with that constitution. Then that constitution develops; it evolves with the spirit of time and in function of the justice it develops. If, however, a preamble is placed almost 190 years later, one risks implicitly amending that constitution, one risks soft law on which we have often had to provoke this last year. I was pleased that many academics made it clear a few weeks ago that this was an overachieved ideological debate. Colleagues, a constitution must first and foremost protect its citizens by giving them fundamental rights and freedoms against the government. It is precisely for this reason that we have tabled proposals in particular on Title II and on rights and freedoms. We also continued to do so, beyond the 2014 pre-constituents, on what was then approved in the Donnea Committee's report, in order to give more rights and freedoms to our citizens. Sixteen of the twenty-seven articles in Title II date from 1831. Today, when we compare our rights and freedoms in the Constitution with the rights and freedoms contained in the European Charter, many of the rights and freedoms of our Constitution are either incomplete or even non-existent. I am thinking of the right to life, of the ban on torture, of the ban on inhuman and degrading treatment, of the right to property, of freedom of thought. That is crucial, and that is why we have tabled proposals. We have not tabled any proposals for revision of the Constitution with regard to kingship and the royal family. In committee we approved some of the proposals, others we did not. I confirm what I said in committee on behalf of our group. The King has an important role to play in our complex country. He has an essential and crucial role to play in our country, especially in government crises and in the formation of a new government because he can play the crucial referee there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u34	Mr Verherstraeten, as far as the role of the King is concerned, I naturally feel addressed. You say that the King has a very important role to play in the formation of a government. Can you explain to me why in the Netherlands, also a country which traditionally has very difficult formations, people have just found that because the formation council is so difficult it is best to take that task away from the King and assign it to Parliament? It is very strange that we have apparently become the only country where it is felt that a king has a role to play in a formation council because that formation council is so difficult. The Netherlands, a country in which things are as difficult as we are, because the two countries that set records on difficult formations are Belgium and the Netherlands, do the opposite of Belgium. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u35	Mr Vuye, you are touching on two examples where the President of Parliament plays an important role. Each country has its own particularities. It is difficult to compare the characteristics of our country with those of the unitary Denmark or the unitary Netherlands. I have also noted that government formations there, despite the fact that they are no longer led by the King, are therefore not simpler. I am not saying that every government formation is difficult or difficult, but you have already seen with me that it has often been very difficult over the last few decades. In the light of the individuality and diversity of our country, we believe that a President of the Chamber or Senate, with all due respect for his mandate, does not represent absolute independence after an election, which is the case with a king. That is why we wish to retain that choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u36	Mr President, first of all I would like to address Mr Flahaux. Mr Flahaux, I also have the right to express my opinion here. I think that the fact that you are calling me to leave Belgium is not enough. I find that embarrassing for a Parliament and for someone who is supposed to be a democrat. It's not the first time you've done that. In a committee too, you have already sent blame to a Member of Parliament who has a different opinion. You may have a good time to reflect on that. Mr Verherstraeten, I believe there is a misunderstanding. In the Netherlands it is not the President of the Chamber who directs the formation council, but the House of Representatives itself. That's something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u37	I would like to remind Mr. Vuye that he has sworn fidelity to the King. It must be noted that he does not respect this oath. On the other hand, I would like to point out that our political – and Community – situation is very different from that of the Netherlands, which is why, as Mr Verherstraeten rightly said, the King has a special role in our country which is not useful in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u38	Mr President, that is how seriously we must take Mr Flahaux's comments. He says I have sworn allegiance to the King. I did not do that, Mr Flahaux, MPs swear no loyalty to the King, only to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u39	Mr President, if, in the political context of the period 2010-2011, we had to give the Chamber its own formation, I fear that it would have waited longer than 540 days. Mr Vuye, I do not think we can convince each other on that point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am open to a debate on the modernisation of the monarchy, but I am convinced that this is really not a priority. By the way - allow me to express my personal conviction - the kingship of the present King is flawless in my opinion. I think he's taking a course that can carry almost everyone's satisfaction. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also debated fewer politicians. That may be popular, and we have also tabled proposals on this issue. We have proposed that, where appropriate, all the articles providing for coordinated senators should be reviewed. I would add, however, what I also said in committee. The co-opted senators were the subject of a Community agreement. I am sticking to that, in relation to all those who have concluded that agreement together. I will depart from that only if we do so in consultation with those partners. We can only renounce it jointly and in consultation. There were also proposals on fewer MPs. I pointed out in the debate the problems of proportional representation, judgments of the Constitutional Court and small constituencies, such as Luxembourg. We have also put forward proposals for fewer ministers and fewer secretaries of state. But then, of course, it will also be possible to achieve this without a constitutional change. That is the responsibility of those who will form a government after the next elections. If I have suggested that the article in question be subject to revision, it was only with the ambition of setting and possibly lowering the ceilings where appropriate. However, I never intended to question parity. The parity in the federal government is one of the crucial balances in our country. Our group does not want to interfere with this. Colleagues, the articles on justice are always reflected in a revised declaration. As far as we are concerned, the 2014 declaration can be renewed. However, we have added amendments to the Constitutional Court so that the Constitution can be brought into line with the special law of the Constitutional Court. There is also the amendment of the Constitutional Article with regard to civil status, because we have adapted the relevant legislation. Finally, we also propose that Article 48 on credentials should be reviewed, otherwise we risk a conviction from the European Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, with all this we only have an ambition, namely to achieve an efficient and modern justice without any Community objective. I come to Article 195 of the Constitution, which lays down a procedure covering two legislative hours with a pre-constituent and a constituent. We introduced this at the time in order to avoid that accidental majorities were in a two-party system that would not be irrelevant to abuse a special majority position in order to change the Constitution and undermine balances in our country during a parliamentary term. To what that can give rise, we learn the example of Hungary. At the moment there is a two-thirds majority there and within the time limit of a legislative period there has been freedom of the media and universities closed down. That raises the necessary questions. I note that those who criticized and fought against the application of Article 195 and the transitional measures in the previous legislature are now the main supporters of Article 195. I understand that the transitional measures we entered in Article 195 in the previous legislature, which have now been extinguished, gave the article a Community connotation which it does not actually have and does not need to have. With special legislation, we can transfer almost all the powers from the federal level to the Länder or vice versa. We do not need the Constitution for this, and we certainly do not need Article 195. If we were to be able to apply a constitutional article to this, it would have been a long time ago, Article 35. For those who wish to do so, we simply have to implement Article 35, for which a majority must be sought. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a term of office, we are always tired of a declaration of constitutional reform, perhaps even more now than in the previous legislature. I believe that we should also make this debate a point of reference, because now we can declare articles subject to revision by a simple majority, while those who make up the majority have different objectives, even contradictory objectives. After the elections, we need a two-thirds majority and we need to have the same objectives and ambitions and adopt the same text. I looked it up. In 2014, we declared nearly 30 articles subject to revision. How many have we revised? Two. Colleagues, how long have we done together on the revision of Article 12, which extended the time limit for arrest from 24 to 48 hours? Almost two years. I also mention the amended Constitutional Article 149, which was really neutral and rather technical in nature. Article 149 deals with the right of access, publication and consultation of judgments and judgments. We have also met a great deal on this subject, majority and opposition side by side. Many of the articles of the Constitution currently being revised will never be revised in the next legislature. This has always been the case in the past, and this will probably be the case again in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u40	Mr Verherstraeten, the example you mention shows that the threshold of the two-thirds majority in Chamber and Senate means a serious hurdle to be taken. The two-thirds majority guarantee that the idea of adaptations to the Constitution will not be treated lightly. In itself, this seems to me to be reassuring, which means that the first hurdle, which makes it possible to revise, is not necessary to avoid adventures. Mr Verherstraeten, suppose that, after the voter has expressed his opinion, in the next legislature in the newly constituted Chamber on any subject, a democratic two-thirds majority can be achieved on issues which you do not wish to declare subject to revision, how can you justify this in relation to that two-thirds majority in the next legislature, which is bound by today's statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u41	Mr De Roover, Article 195 of the Constitution provides for two stages. We used these two phases in the previous legislature. Your group at the time even sent me a reference to it to Venice just now, because I would have violated human rights. However, that allegation was rejected. I have just given examples. In the current fragmented political climate in our country, it's damn hard to find a two-thirds majority, but in a non-splintered climate, an accidental two-thirds majority can do very dangerous things. That is why I honestly say that, in my opinion, we should be careful about the Constitution. The Constitution must bind, the Constitution must bring people together, the Constitution must have support. For this reason, I believe that the procedure, which is indeed not easy, is well maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u42	That is a commendable position, which does not mean that I agree with it. But your reference to the risk that a dangerous two-thirds majority would suddenly be achieved is, of course, unrelated to Belgian reality and also to the fact that our distribution of seats is broadly proportional to the number of votes, at least within the two language groups. There are certain countries where, as soon as a number of seats are given, a few additional seats are immediately added, so that the parliamentary two-thirds majority is absolutely not a translation of a two-thirds majority into the electoral booth. But we don't have that kind of risk. Hence again my question, which you have not answered: to what extent are you going to explain to the electorate that you are restricting the freedom of the electorate to allow certain possible two-thirds majorities in the next Parliament to result in concrete policy actions such as constitutional reforms?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u43	If you mean two-thirds of those who are not strictly constitutional but who are involved in the country's reforms, we can handle them perfectly within a single legislative period. Nothing prevents you from seeking a two-thirds majority in this Chamber and in the Senate to reform the whole country. Nothing prevents you from doing that. But that's a tough job. We have pointed this out together. And for a hard job, you have to take your time. It must be prepared, as I said earlier. I told you that this morning. I have noticed with you that this preparation has certainly not been carried out by the largest Flemish group in the last five years. In other words, the fact that you are not at present standing anywhere with regard to that two-thirds majority is, among other things, your responsibility in this matter. As far as the Constitution is concerned, I stand by it, which is about fundamental rights and freedoms, which is about fundamental things in our country. I think that this should be handled with caution. I believe that the double phase, with the pre-constituent and the constituent, is a protection of citizens from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u44	I see you're trying to protect the citizen from himself. Okay, that's a logic like another. However, at the end I received an answer to the first part of my question. I had not limited it to Community matters, I meant it for every article of the Constitution. If the search for majorities and the preparation of next steps takes some time, then that time must also be taken. However, if, by definition, you stick to this for five years as your party has done, then I must say that we will not use the word here without delay. I repeat that your answer is that you want to protect citizens from themselves. I can't agree with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u45	Against the government. To himself, those were your words, Mr De Roover. In any case, as far as the first part is concerned, we are prepared to think about it and talk about it. We are prepared to do preparatory work there in a committee in the Flemish Parliament. We are also prepared to consult with French-speaking colleagues. If we do not do this together, we will not make any progress. That is what the Community history of our country has taught us. I'm rounding up. There are three institutions that have an equal role to play in drawing up a Constitutional Reform Declaration, namely Chamber, Senate and Government. They all have a full role to play. This afternoon I heard a colleague of the opposition say during the debate that we should do this together. Together, however, also means colleagues. This means that one institution cannot unilaterally impose its will on another. We need to find a common denominator together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u46	I suspect you are referring to my intervention, Mr Verherstraeten. You've been following things around enough to know that that outstretched hand has been around for a long time, as far as we're concerned. The call to tackle it together has been loud for a long time, both in open and closed meetings. I have found that the Prime Minister does not wish to discuss this with us. For me, then, is the best form of cooperation, the place that lends itself most to finding consensus and acceptance, this Parliament. If today we accept the fact that the government still has a decisive voice in this, the result is de facto that we are governed by one party and by one person. For me, that's miles away from an exercise in which we come to a list together. I'd have liked to have done it another way. I like this exercise. It has been a chaotic exercise in the committee's lap, but it has really been a parliamentary exercise, an exercise of cooperation. It could have been more, it could have been an exercise of parliament and government. But you cannot blame us and this House, colleagues from the opposition, nor colleagues from the majority, for not having called for cooperation. The best way to work, the most pronounced form of cooperation is the parliamentary list, not one between parliament and government. The government has chosen not to engage in dialogue. Charles Michel is still hoping for some kind of veto. I would find that democratically unacceptable and anything but a form of cooperation, really.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u47	Mr Calvo, I hope the pot doesn't blame the kettle for looking black. If you say that you have tried to do this together, then you have also reduced this government, which has a role to play, ab initio and from the very beginning. You said that you were in current business and that you were not allowed to do anything, that you had a minority and that you were not allowed to do anything. That was not only a legal error, but if you say you want to do this together, then you should have respected the full role of that government. Maybe this would have been more likely. But you immediately put her in a corner and excluded things. That's what I've been through in the discussion. I have said from the beginning that this government has its role to play. This is also explicitly stated in Article 195 of the Constitution. Either a government can do nothing in current affairs, which is the position of some colleagues, but then it cannot take note of Chamber and Senate, because what is being voted on there is not neutral either, or it can do something and then it has room for manoeuvre. Of two things one and not only what is convenient or what is convenient for an opposition or some groups to take advantage of and leave the other. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to this government, which in any case has evolved in its position. In this sense, the debates have also been useful in making it possible to revise the constitution in any case: not to close a Constitution, but to adopt a revision that will enable the next legislature to amend the Constitution, not to create Community tensions, but to find a basis for support between citizens and government, to bring citizens and the public closer together. This must be an ambition and an objective of this Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we need to consider Article 195, which sets out the way in which we can revise a Constitution. Article 195 has a very heavy Community dimension. Article 195 was once removed in order to do what is supposedly impossible, particularly during the course of a legislative term, to amend the Constitution. We need to consider the procedure that we must follow, because there is no link between a pre-constituent and a Parliament that identifies a number of articles to review and the way in which a next Parliament deals with them. I'm kicking in an open door again. Explaining an article to be subject to revision is the possibility of holding a debate on it in the next legislature. In what direction, what dimension that may have, some groups may be pointing out today, but something quite different can happen with that. Let me give you the example of Article 12. Article 12 has been added to the list to adapt the Salduz scheme for lawyers. With Article 12, we finally brought the 24-hour arrest period to 48 hours. If one says that one does not want to run a risk and absolutely wants to know what one will do with a particular article, then one simply has to keep the door locked. We do not then declare any article open, because we never know what a next parliament will do with it. That is why I am in favour of declaring Article 195 to be subject to effective revision because I believe that in a parliamentary democracy, a parliament should always be able to adapt a Constitution to the changing social need and that we should do so in a very conservative way. The debate we are having now shows this once again. In committee, we did nothing but look at each other and say that the other probably wants to do something with an article that we do not want to do, and because we do not want to do so, we do not agree to revise it, so we are blocking it. I do not think that is healthy in a democracy. Secondly, I would like to point out that following the attacks of 22 March, we found that the debate on standards and values in our society is actually a very topical debate. By values and values, I mean our Constitution. It contains fundamental principles, which we have inherited from the Enlightenment. The Constitution we made in 1831 was actually a very liberal Constitution, with values of Enlightenment, such as freedom of expression, separation of church and state, equality between men and women. These are things which were fundamental at that time and which are still fundamental today, but which are no longer perceived as such by the younger generation in our country today. You should try explaining it to a young audience. They'll ask what you're doing, that these are obvious after all. No, that's not obvious. Mr President, we have had the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks here in the Chamber. There we are stunned by people who say: we do not respect your society, we do not respect your Constitution, we do not respect your laws, we do not respect your principles, we want to organise a society according to our own religious principles, whether Islam or Catholic religion or other religions. There was something in my mind at the time saying that this is the primacy of what is in the Constitution, of what is in our laws. Those who want to function in our society, and we are all newcomers, those who come from elsewhere, but also the young people who come from our society, must all respect the same principles. For example, in the Committee on the Review of the Constitution, I found that one of the better moments in this legislature, Mr President-in-Office, came to the procedure with the introductory report. We said at that time that we could possibly add some kind of preamble to the Constitution. Mr Verherstraeten says that he is totally opposed to this. That is his right, but there are countries that do. The reading of a constitution is facilitated by a preamble which makes it clear what the norms and values are to be respected when one comes to live here. If the Constitution is now to be opened, Article 1 of the Treaty reads separately from the Community dimension: Belgium is a federal state, consisting of regions and Communities. Put that in front of a young audience. They will say that the American Constitution begins with "We, the people." The strength of the people, the strength of the values and the strength of the standards are something that could be figured out in a preamble, in an introduction, to make clear what you said this afternoon, Mr Calvo, which connects our society. A constitution must be binding. A constitution must make clear what brings us together. That preamble, Mr De Roover, was strongly and glowly defended by Mr Bourgeois. Only it had to be about a Flemish Constitution. In the case of a Flemish Constitution, Mr Bourgeois thought that a preamble was a good thing. Within the framework of the federal constitution....... there must be a reason for his................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're not yet on Article 1. We are not yet voting on Rule 1, Mr Clarinval. My question is how a preamble to the Constitution can be effectively preceded. How can one also ensure that one can go through a participatory process in which living forces in a society, education, young people, etc. can participate in such a preamble, to become a good citizen? I think that is quite fundamental in a constitutional process.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u49	Mr Dewael is trying to do the same thing about Mr Bourgeois, which he has also performed in committee. My reaction is the same. You know that you miss the ball if you give the impression that Mr Bourgeois is in favour of a preamble to a Flemish constitution because it is Flemish and we are now against it because it concerns the Belgian Constitution. In the discussions on that preamble, the question was whether mustard should be put on the table before or after the meal. You know this well enough. Mr Bourgeois is talking about a new constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u50	I don't think this is right. We have seen that, when Mr Francken was still in office, he tried to work with a newcomer statement. The late Etienne Vermeersch left his light on that. It was a newcomer's declaration which had to be shaped by a royal decree. A newcomer declaration setting out what it is all about in our society is put into a constitution. I believe that a preamble to this is a powerful weapon. I have never submitted a text of preamble. After all, I want to make this a participatory process. I believe that this exercise should be carried out in a subsequent legislature. We don't need a new G1000, but there are 101 formulas to make citizens participate in such a process. I would add immediately that, if such a preamble is part of the declaration of revision, Article 1 should not be subject to revision for me. I know that Article 1 is sensitive. CD&V has submitted a proposal to revise Article 1. They copied the Dutch model. However, it will be hard for me to achieve this by means of a preamble or an actual constitutional article. If the preamble is rejected, the principle of standards and values can also be included in Article 1. However, this principle could also be included in Article 7a. To those colleagues from the MR, who reject any Community debate, I would say that this Article 7a can also be used perfectly as a hub for Community affairs. In other words, one can always find a coat rack if one really wants to. Mr President, the preamble is therefore an important amendment which I shall put forward again. I have only tabled four amendments. After all, I was impressed that many articles could be revised. The preamble is, however, the most important in this respect for me. Secondly, and now I come to what I explained this afternoon in this plenary session, we are living in a reverse world. I have been a Member of Parliament for some time. I have always seen a government come to Parliament with a list of articles. You can't do that right now because the government's resigning. The government could have decided to come to Parliament with a list of articles. However, the government has chosen not to submit a list. This means that the other components, which are Chamber and Senate, have the complete freedom to do what they think they should do. Let me bring up the next one. When the government fell and resigned, the Prime Minister came to the Chamber, saying that he had no room for manoeuvre and no majority, that he was supported by only 52 Members and that Parliament had to help adopt laws. I believe that is what we have done. In recent weeks, Mr Van Rompuy, there has even been criticism of the multitude of laws and their cost. Parliament has done its legislative function. But if the government indicates that it no longer has any support in Parliament and that it no longer has any democratic legitimacy, can you imagine that the Chamber and Senate would submit their list of articles by majority and that the government would decide to classify that list without further ado? I'm looking at the clerk of the chamber. We get excellent notes, which show that the government can do this theoretically and legally. Practically and politically, however, it is suicide. A government that would ignore a list established by the Chamber and Senate, ce serait du jamais vu. Mrs Onkelinx has used a qualification for this, but I will not repeat it. I'm just saying that it would be unwitting, that it would bear witness to a lack of democratic decency. We can't do that! The third point I wish to make on behalf of my group is that we are not asking for a further state reform. We believe that the next legislative term should be characterised by a government that deals with the economy, with people's purchasing power, with the climate, with challenges that many today are awakening. So we are not ready to negotiate a major state reform for 100, 200, 300, 400 or 500 days. We don't want that. But anyone who claims not to have a Community ambition must not lock the Constitution down at the same time. We are asking to go far in the whole matter of rights and freedoms. There is also the whole section about what we call state reduction. Questions to be dealt with at a forthcoming legislative meeting. What are we gonna do with the Senate? Are we satisfied with the way the Senate functions today? Are the senators satisfied with that themselves? What are we going to do about the number of Members of Parliament, Mr Verherstraeten? I am not saying, populist, that there should be fewer and fewer, but we have had a whole regionalisation, and people say that there have always been man-dataists. All in all, indeed, they have joined. In Brussels, too, for reasons of their own, there have been man daters. Do we need 150 more MPs? What about a federal constituency? Some say it is absolutely unnecessary. Would it not be a good thing that in a country like ours there are still politicians who want to take responsibility for the whole country, instead of always pointing out in their electoral programme what they are doing on the other side and saying that they do not agree with it? But people can't vote in that other part of the country, and vice versa. Today we see that in debates people are again pointing to the politicians in the other part of the country, without Flemings being able to speak about Wallonia because there are no candidates standing up for the whole country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u51	Mr President, first of all, I find it strange that, before we can declare a Constitutional article open to revision, we should first discuss what we might want to do with that article. Mr Dewael, on the last point you raised, there is no need to amend the Constitution at all. Why isn't Open Vld just running in Wallonia? That's a free choice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u52	That's right, that's a possibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u53	You call it problematic that the inhabitants of Wallonia cannot vote for you, but the reason is that you refuse to submit a list of candidates in Wallonia. You can just solve that, instead of saying theoretical stories here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u54	Mr President, there was a mini-federal circle in our country, Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. I believe that we can all remember the tensions that have caused in our country. We finally got that over with. Do some then wish to organise a federal constituency throughout Belgium? I'd rather fit in. Mr Dewael, as far as the number of politicians is concerned, the truth must not be violated. In the first half of the state reform with the St Michael Agreement, no members of parliament were added to the direct election of the Land Parliaments. The number of members of the Senate was reduced at the time and these numbers were transferred to the Land Parliaments. Nor have Members of Parliament been added when we reformed the Senate in the previous legislature, reducing the number of directly elected senators. Once Members of Parliament have been added, this happened under the leadership of a liberal government, Mr Dewael, which increased the number of Members of Parliament in Brussels. The current Flemish government has halved the number of provincial council members and reduced the number of members of the deputation in the legislature that is now at its end. So, Mr Dewael, you must not give the public the impression that there are more and more Members of Parliament. The numbers have been reduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u55	I believe that we should actually have that kind of debate in the next legislature. I do not agree with your statement, because net has been added. If we compare the global numbers for Belgium with those of other federal countries, then they are on the rather high side in Belgium. For the provinces we have taken a first step. I believe we can do it with fewer politicians. Once again, I am prepared to conduct the debate and the articles we have referred to make that debate possible. We will be able to debate a federal constituency. Please do not make that a caricature as if it were creating a large B-H-V. I call for a limited number of candidates on lists who assert responsibility for the whole country. How does one want to connect a country if no one still wants to assume political responsibility for that country as a whole? That's the question I'm asking. Then don't joke about B-H-V, colleague Verherstraeten. That's the essence. Look at federal countries like Germany, where they have that effectively. There is the Bundesrat, which can play a binding role. It brings the Länder closer together there. Finally, take a look at the fundamental debate on voting rights or voting obligations. I have said in committee that I have known this problem for 30 years. My party has been defending the right to vote for 30 years, not the right to vote or vote. That is an important point, but it is not here at the moment. However, I am pleased that we have made the opening to create the opportunity for people from 16 years of age to vote. It must now stop chasing the young people of the climate demonstrations alone and saying that they are sending out a fantastic signal. They are said to be mature and to set legitimate priorities, but when it comes to giving them the right to run, they are said to be too young. They are not too young to argue, they are not too young to follow them, but they are too young to function in a parliamentary democracy. Stop that hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u56	Mr Dewael says that these debates are taking place in the next legislature, but of course he is conducting them. Anyway, he wants to introduce a federal constituency like in Germany, but it doesn't exist there at all. People can only choose Angela Merkel in one small Wahlkreis, in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. The whole idea of a federal constituency does not exist in any federation, that is just an invention by some neo-Belgians, who think they should invent the hot water here and come up with arguments. Let us introduce a federal constituency like Germany, namely none.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u57	Mr De Roover, if you look at Germany, let me say that there is a very important point in Germany. At some point the Germans are all for a federation, they are all Germans. This does not prevent them from having their own democracy in Länder. Anyway, there is a federal, a national feeling of belonging to one and the same nation. We don't have that in our country. I am asking for renewal to be possible, so that that feeling can indeed gain strength. I think that we are in absolute need of this right now in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u58	The monkey comes out of the sleeve. You do not want institutional reform with the federal constituency; you want to stimulate a national feeling. I do not think it is up to the government to promote national feelings with a electoral system. (Protests from Mr Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u59	Mr De Roover has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u60	Mr Calvo, I am not in favour of including in the Constitution that we hand out hats, neither Belgian nor Flemish. The monkey that comes out of here - and he makes you nervous - is that the electoral system is being abused to create a national feeling. I have nothing against people who want to create a national feeling, but say that there should be no abuse of electoral systems. That is what has been formally said here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u61	Mr President, there are aspects of the N-VA programme in which I agree, but the creation of the Flemish national feeling I have never known the N-VA to respond to. The N-VA has always done everything in its power and in its ability to create divisions in our country by claiming that all is comfortable back in one's own community and region. That's what separates us, thank God. We want to build bridges, Mr De Roover. We don't want to split the country. That is what you fundamentally distinguish from us. I am glad that you have interrupted me, because then I can make the following point. You say that we can declare all the articles of the Constitution subject to revision, but your ultimate political objective is no longer self-determination and greater autonomy. No, your ultimate goal is the end of Belgium, the split of the country and there our ways separate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u62	Mr Dewael, a little intellectual honesty would please you. It is not because some Members are now starting to say that you are more right. You may argue for the Belgian unit, I have no problem with that. You may also argue against it, which is a normal political project, but please distinguish between, on the one hand, a particular political project and, on the other hand, the use, in this case abuse, of a electoral legislation aimed only at seeing the citizen represented in our home in a representative manner, in order to promote your political project. That's the point I'm pointing out, and you refuse to make that distinction here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u63	Mr De Roover, I believe in this country in which you do not believe. Apart from your separatist scenario, I have never been able to argue to a Flemish nationalist what would eventually have to happen to Brussels, a final piece in its entirety. We disagree, but that is not the debate today. The debate today is what articles we wish to declare open. I have merely wished to argue that the articles relating to fundamental rights and freedoms and articles relating to political innovations and to the reduction of state aid are contrary to Community objectives. It is a list of about 40 articles which I would like the Chamber, after tabling a number of amendments, and subsequently the Senate, to record. The fundamental element that is still lacking is that we have an effective government which, at the end of the process, will assess the list set out in the Chamber and Senate. This is not only our democratic duty, but it is also a question of political decency. Mr President, I believe that this has made clear to my group what it expects of the next Constitutional Review. The preamble seems very important to me. I would just like to say to the House that if the preamble to the vote is given an effective chance of success, Article 1... which stipulates that Belgium is a federal state and which I know of which symbolism is subordinate to it for some....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Constitution, Members of Parliament and lawyers, my speech will be a little simpler and perhaps a little pragmatic. Mr Dewael, I would first like to say a few words about the preamble. There are different kinds of preambles. There is a preamble that reflects the finality of the Constitution in a number of recitals and there is a preamble that reflects the core values. If I have listened carefully to you, you are mostly a supporter of this latest version. It is then that a legal text is produced that explains or explains what is in the Constitution. There was a lot of discussion about this at those very interesting committee meetings. I have also remembered that if an interpretive text were to be made, endless discussions would arise. Here is my second comment on the preamble. I'm an ethician from training. You keep talking about standards and values. Well, the first lesson one gets as an ethicist is that standards and values aren't law. That's different. A law is written down and it follows its provisions or is not followed. If they are not followed, one can be sanctioned. Ethics and morality are recommendations. Sometimes one is punished if one does not follow values or standards, but not by law, not by justice. That's a very big difference. So you need to discuss this a little bit further. I am going to explain why the sp.a has opted for a number of things and not for a number of others. In Title II, we supported the addition of a number of points, namely that the interpretation of the Constitution should not destroy rights and freedoms; that rights relating to disabled persons should be clearly defined; that the rights of the Constitution should not be limited to Belgians, but should be extended to all residents, of course with respect for European and international treaties; the right to life; the prohibition of torture and slavery; the right to a fair trial; freedom of movement; the right to security and the protection and restriction of rights. We have, of course, supported our colleague Verherstraeten with regard to the protection of non-confessional organisations. We also support universal postal, communication and mobility services, as well as an addition to Article 25 to update the guarantee and printing press to other means of information. Then a number of articles for revision have been proposed, for which there should actually be no justification, but for which there is a report from the committee. I hope that the next discussions will include reporting, to see why articles have been opened up for review. I would also like to explain something. There is Mr Verherstraeten's proposal on opening up Article 1, stating that his party wishes to insert and explicate the fundamental values of our society in that Article 1. For the sake of clarity, with what I have just said about the preamble, that makes sense. I want a very clear Constitution. I want a transparent Constitution, which everyone can understand. If there is to be a text to explain the Constitution, I will reverse the exercise. We would be much better off first doing a participatory process with a clear Constitution and asking people what the Constitution means for them today. A possible text can then be created around that process, for which the exercise can be repeated every so many years. After all, what are a number of rights in our society today is determined by today's context. What they are in 20 years' time could be completely different. However, fundamental rights remain the same in the Constitution. It could be an interesting exercise with young people, especially asking them what freedom of expression means to them today and in proportion to respect. On this basis, a text could possibly be drawn up which could make it clearer for many people, albeit rather as a teaching exercise and a text of ideas. If the preamble is not possible, we thought we would follow Mr Verherstraeten's proposal. That is why we abstained. In committee, we were careful when it came to opening up Article 1. However, after what I heard during the discussions afterwards, I am very afraid that Article 1 will be opened up, albeit not for the right reason. The following politicians can also give a completely different interpretation. That is why we will be voting against its opening up. We want to open up Article 7a. The opening up of Articles 10 and 11 should also allow non-governmental organisations to become officials, and we have no problem with non-discrimination even for non-governmental organisations. I think that Article 11a is very important. Mr Onkelinx has already said it and I do not know why I have a few statements of my own, but we see that in many situations of power women disappear. The classic white men I won't say older than 40 or 50, because then I might get half on my roof, so I get a lot of power back. As women, we go backwards. So I want to defend the 40% rule for the gender minimum very strongly, not because men are men and women are women, but I do know that governance can be much more positive and much more versatile if one brings more perspectives into a government or other political bodies, because there are several proposals for the different levels. An investigation into this was carried out once, and the banking crisis might not have occurred in 2008 if there had been more women on the boards of banks. Then there's the adaptation of the rules on deprivation of liberty to Salduz. Articles 20 and 21 concern the freedom of worship and the separation of church and state. Article 22 concerns the right to private and family life. We have no problem with that. For us, Article 23, the right to a decent life, is extremely important, because we are thinking of the registration of security of care and the right to mobility and post. If we had said that 10 years ago, we would have been declared crazy. The right to communication and the right to water are also very important elements. With the update of Article 25, the printing press is free, other means of information can also be appointed. We want to open Articles 28, 29 and 57 to a number of issues relating to participation, petitions and civic participation. The modernisation of the Senate and the monarchy may also be discussed for us. That is why we supported the opening up of these articles. There are also a number of articles relating to a modern justice system. Article 167, which determines the prior approval of military operations by Parliament, is also important to us. This article has not yet been mentioned tonight, but I have the impression that some people can support it. I would like to say a few words about Article 195. Apparently, a Prime Minister here once said that the Constitution is not a piece of paper. I think that is quite right. I think that there are tough procedures for amending that Constitution is only normal. We live in a complex country. We have a lot of partitions, in many ways. If we want to change the Constitution, we need to find new balances. This means that people are needed to seek new balances and balances with informed leadership. I have often led processes of change, and I know that this will easily take seven years. At a time like this one can even speak of success. If people are complaining here in five years' time, I can only say that five years is short for fundamental changes in a constitution. We must take the necessary time to do so. This is not happening out of fear, because this is about sustainable policy, sustainable governance. When Mr De Roover says that we are no longer democratic and fearful and afraid, there is an ancient Flemish saying: when the fox preaches passion, farmer, watch your geese. Or chickens. That's easier for me to say. I would like to say that if De Roover preaches the passion, citizen, pay attention to your rights. In connection with the discussion on Article 195, many people are tired of state reform. Why? They feel that they are being used as an excuse to do very little, not to deal with the real opportunities and challenges of the future. I am thinking of climate, of work, of health, of purchasing power, of pensions. We have done a lot of state reform. Perhaps we could try to work together in particular and implement the existing reforms. We have enough laws and rules. So start discussing long-term objectives. Stick to that. Everyone draw your lines. Look what you have to do and please try to realize it. Let me give you an example that is very close to my heart, the integration of people who come to live here. This must be done at all levels and in all policy areas. Who's gonna stop us? A state reform? Oh, no, please. We could have achieved much more in this area. We also need these people as workers. We will pay a heavy price in many areas because we have not integrated them. So I say get on with it, work hard, and don't give me too much shit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is our fundamental law, the law that defines the rules of our living together, the great balances not only between the three powers but also between the different entities that make up our State (federal state, regions, communities: Article 1) and the fundamental rights of our fellow citizens. In an ideal world, we should be able to discuss it calmly, including and especially in this forum. Not only in this forum, not only with elected citizens but also with unelected citizens in participatory arrangements, daring to question long-standing elements of the Constitution. But this is in an ideal world. It's not that simple. We know this, we feel it and we live it in the context of this discussion, of the discussion in the Review Committee. Our recent history proves it. This gives rise to tensions, caricatures, trials of intent. Some feed on our differences, like to oppose the Belgians between them, want to build walls rather than bridges, are part of a besieged citadel logic rather than looking for fair, new, balanced, future-oriented solutions. As I said, the exercise we are doing will have to be serene and positive. He has been in charge of the environmentalists of the South and the North of the country who, since they were present in this Parliament, work together daily in a common group, in both languages and seek solutions that go beyond the differences of Communities, which are both time-based and extraterritorial, aimed at preparing for the future and bequeathing a habitable land to our children. We started this exercise by removing from our list all items that could lead too directly to a new community adventure. It is true, it has been said: the devil hides himself in the details. The intention of the pre-constituent does not bind the constituent. However, we made the explicit choice not to include in our list of articles any article that could lead too directly to a new community round, which could distract us from what we were elected for: that is, distract us from the social and environmental emergencies to which we must find positive solutions, as well as we must find answers to the expectations of our fellow citizens, by improving their daily lives. Therefore, you would not have been surprised not to find in the list that we have tabled Article 195 of the Constitution, just as you would not have been by finding that we objected to making Article 1 revisable. On the other hand, we find the approach of Mr Dewael and the Open Vld interesting. In any case, this is an attempt to try, as long as it comes out of this building and involves citizens in a reflection around a preamble to the Constitution and values that we share and want to make live. The environmentalists practiced this exercise and, as part of the work of the Review Panel, set out different priorities through articles to be revised. I will classify them into four categories. First of all, I will refer to the out-of-class article, which is obviously the 7 bis, which we have discussed in recent weeks with a view to drafting a climate law that would set very clear and binding objectives for our State, while organizing cooperation between its constituent entities, and which would provide for an assessment of the achievement of these objectives in collaboration with regional and federal administrations and with scientists, as the climate issue seems central to us. If we don't solve it, we can't solve anything else. As you know - I don't teach you anything - the attempt has failed by little. There was an absolute majority to support this revision of the Constitution, even if it was not yet two thirds of the members of this House. But we intend to put the book back on the job and resume work immediately after the May 26 elections to try to convince two thirds of the members, find partners in this Parliament, build alliances with colleagues from other parties, but also with civil society. In this Article 7a, we can also dream of setting out, then, objectives for the protection and preservation of biodiversity, other essential issues which are too little debated in this Parliament. The first priority is climate. Through the Constitution, we can indeed act for a sustainable planet, a planet that we would leave viable for future generations. The second cross-cutting priority we pursue with a view to improving our Constitution is the democratic issue. An example was cited because it is enlightening. This is a question of giving the right to vote at 16 years of age, in a logic of extending the right to vote as applied since the creation of our State. We started with a censorial vote. It took decades for women to have the right to vote. There have already been decisions to reduce the voting age. For us, we need to send this signal to the younger generation and create a chain reaction in terms of citizenship education. We also want to extend the right to vote to foreign citizens living in Belgium, who pay taxes, participate in social life and make our society and who currently do not have the right to vote. This is a very strong claim in the Brussels Region where more and more nationalities live together in a positive way. Another of our proposals has attracted the interest of several groups. We thank them for that. We propose the establishment of a single federal electoral district. It is too easy to campaign only in one's community, in the region, not to face the challenge of meeting the other community, or even developing an aggressive discourse towards it without it being able to respond. That elected Members of this Parliament campaign throughout the country makes sense when the laws that we vote apply to all, from Arlon to Ostend. We also want to: strengthen the capacity of citizens to intervene directly in the public debate; create a right of citizens' initiative as provided for by European law; allow referendums at local or regional level; set up in our Parliament or in others joint committees involving elected and non-elected representatives; and take forward the issue of parity, of representation of the two sexes in the executive. Great steps have been taken on this last point at other levels of power - at the level of the Walloon communal executive. Our governments must be more like society, made up of almost half men and half women. Through the Constitution, we can improve and strengthen our democracy, by sharing more powers and allowing more citizens to participate. This is our second objective in this discussion on the articles of the Constitution to be revised: to improve democracy. Third priority: strengthening and modernizing fundamental rights and their incorporation into the Constitution, mainly around article 2. The pre-constituent in 2014, for example, had foreseen the possibility of improving the rights of persons with disabilities. Despite the proposals put forward by some colleagues in this Parliament, nothing has been done. Together with others, we have proposed to re-register this attention. It also seems to us that rights applied here in Belgium, because contained in international conventions to which we have acceded, must also be included in our fundamental text in order to be anchored in Belgian law, so that tomorrow no one has the temptation to say, for example at random, that the International Convention on the Rights of the Child - according to which a child is not confined - would not apply to our country. Fortunately, the Council of State is attentive and guarantor. He decided to suspend a decision by our federal government and the majority on this matter. We welcome this, of course, but we want to anchor these fundamental principles in Belgian law, in the Constitution. There is also a need to improve press law, freedom of the press and the prohibition of censorship. Today, it is only applicable to print media, not taking into account all developments in the press, including audiovisual media. Homophobic or racist press offences must be corrected. That is not possible, in the present state of our Constitution. We want to prevent discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. We want to anchor access to water and energy in our Constitution. Through the Constitution, which is often referred to as a problem, such as what can lead to endless Community discussions, we can strengthen rights, simply if we wish, by choosing the right articles to be revised and if we find parliamentarians of good will to achieve this. The fourth and final objective we had in filing our list of articles to review was an innovation objective. What was decided in 1831, sometimes changed obviously, and fortunately, has sometimes aged and does not take into account new issues or new solutions. A request by Brussels political agents, both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, is to be able to organize bilingual education. To allow this in Brussels, would it not be a great way of advancing the ability of our young people to integrate into working life, into the labour market? This would be an excellent way of valuing the sociological characteristics of this region, both the capital of our state and of Europe. Also modify the way in which the powers of elected officials are verified. The elected representatives verify their own powers. Belgium is pointed out by the international community with regard to this mechanism of another time, regulated in article 48 of the Constitution. The royal office must also evolve. What is the meaning of awarding titles of nobility to each other in 2019? As ecologists, we want to modernize and eventually eliminate the provinces. I hear a lot of colleagues who believe that there are too many agents in our country. Has the provincial institution not done its time? Is it not time to give the Regions the capacity to reform them in depth? There is also a request that we continue to make: we want to make the decision on military engagement conditional on Parliament's approval. By amending the Constitution, a State can also be modernized. It's really the lens of environmentalists. Our four objectives, namely to act for the climate, to strengthen democracy, to strengthen fundamental rights and to innovate, were met with the list that we have tabled. We were fortunate to find in the Constitutional Review Committee careful ears and votes to support 90% of the proposals we have put forward. Perhaps there were sometimes intentions other than ours? We will have to pay attention to this in the framework of a constituent legislature, but it is a very rewarding prospect for us. But this is just the beginning of the exercise. Tonight, our assembly will complete its work and decide on articles that can be revised after May 26. We will see what it decides, and we hope that it will not include either Article 1 or Article 195. I hope that it will confirm these positive articles which have been selected in committee. Together with my colleague Calvo, we hope that we can add one or the other article, in particular that allowing foreigners to vote in our country. Then the work will follow its course. What will the Senate do at its last meetings? What will the government decide? This debate took place a few times in plenary session, and earlier on in topical issues. At this stage, the position is conservative or chilly depending on the point of view taken. We hope that, in the end, some of the articles that would make it possible to move forward in terms of positive law will be retained both by the Senate and by the government and that, at the end of this work, this mill will remain an ambitious list that will allow Parliament, over the next five years, to work to improve the functioning of our State and to strengthen the rights of each other and that we can, together, build a greener, more modern Belgium, more respectful of each other's rights. I hope that we will succeed in overcoming this logic of opposition and cartoons, which has all too often been the determinant of Belgian politics and of the debates on the revision of our Constitution. You will have understood that, as environmentalists, we wish to make a positive contribution to the modernization and strengthening of our Constitution for an adult, positive, participatory and open to others.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to be brief, because I understand that some Members are anxious for the end of the sitting, but at the same time it is my belief and our belief that this debate deserves the attention and the time needed. At this hour it may seem like a debate of freaks, professional politicians and constitutional specialists, but in fact this debate concerns everyone and is particularly important for the eleven million Belgians. It is our belief that the Constitution is indeed not a piece of paper, it is even more a very important compass, even in our daily life together, as it were our second national anthem, which we share, subscribe to, find important and what we act on. Therefore, although it is now a little later than usual and even though everyone is longing for Easter holidays and campaigning time, I think it is logical that Parliament should take its time for this debate. Other colleagues have already mentioned that, when drafted, our Belgian Constitution was very progressive and progressive, also in philosophical rather than political terms. However, we cannot ignore the fact that our society now looks completely different. We must continue to aim for a progressive, liberal and progressive Constitution. Our group therefore supports the group of academics who, as politicians, invited us some time ago to update, renew and deepen the Constitution, and not to narrow the debate down or narrow it down to a classic form of state reform. I regret that, although there is a fine list before us today, the debate could not be entirely conducted. I believe that this has to do with the false start of this debate in 2014, when party presidents have locked themselves up, whether or not in the presence of technical negotiators such as Mr Vuye, in order to conclude a government agreement which apparently, according to persistent rumours, was accompanied by Atoma writings. The rumours about Atoma writings have, in my view, partly mortgaged the debate we are having today. I know Mr Clarinval as a courageous colleague who regularly does his utmost to make the most of it, but the fact that the MR is very cautious today and even has fear of the debate in an almost incomprehensible way has to do with the persistent rumours about Atoma writings. It has to do with the fact that the MR made a promise in 2014 to the N-VA and is now incredibly scared that it would look like that promise is being implemented, as if Belgium's keys were being given to the nationalists. I regret that this false start, this secret agreement, has been a mortgage on a 100 percent open debate, on a debate without taboos, because it has always been a bit lately, even in committee, although we have finally found each other on a number of important points. I would also like to say a few words about what Mr De Roover has been doing. He says that it is not possible for decisions to be taken today on matters which the next Parliament would not be able to judge. I fundamentally disagree with that. It is even a good thing that there is a double democratic exercise and that this exercise takes place properly and takes place in substance. Our group does not subscribe to the doctrine of the N-VA, in which an outgoing Parliament simply says: everything is fine. No, citizens chose these 150 MPs in 2014 and then expected us to make our exercise thorough until the last day. The first stage of this double democratic exercise is part of this. That is even a very democratic principle. It is democratic to do the first stage of this democratic exercise thoroughly today and not simply to say: we are opening everything up. This double democratic exercise and that first stage also requires an openness to question things, to let go of dogmas and not just to leave the list of 2014. Mr Clarinval, 2014, especially in a rapidly changing world, is actually a different era. The change is happening at an incredible pace. 2014 was the time before the attacks. 2014 was the time before the yellow shirts. 2014 was the time for the broad call for a climate law. 2014 was a time before many new academic insights. This double democratic exercise also includes the openness to say that 2019 is a different time than 2014. We're not just putting that list on the copier from then on. It is good that caution is built in. It is good that there is a double exercise, but that double exercise must be done seriously, in the first phase and in the second phase. Let us be honest, that second stage is still a stage in which we must convince two thirds of the new Parliament. So I do not think things are being reformed too quickly in our country, rather too slowly than too quickly. Colleagues, another thought I would like to protest against is not only in newspapers, it is also cultivated here in Parliament by colleagues who want to open more or less articles. They try to turn it into a debate of Dutch speakers against French speakers. If we look at the vote in committee and follow the debate, it has to be said that this is not really a Community debate. Many articles have been approved by the PS, the N-VA, Ecolo-Green and Open Vld, sometimes supported by MR. The fact that there is a list here today means that in many cases that language border has already been crossed. Some people on one side of the language border wanted to open an article for a certain reason and some people on the other side thought the same thing. Some people from one language group wanted to open an article for a certain reason while another group from the same language group wanted to open the same article for another reason. I would therefore like to protest strongly against the assumption that this is a Community debate. No, it is a parliamentary debate in which majorities have arisen between political families and across the language line. This is reflected in the results of the vote in committee. If it were a Community debate and the dividing line between Dutch and French speakers, that list would not have been that long. Of course, the Community is lurking around the corner, but it is not true to say that this is always a story of Dutch speakers against French speakers. It doesn't, and it doesn't have to be. I would like to call on colleagues to do the same exercise that the ecologists have done next time, namely to consult within the political family and to come together to create a common list. It is no coincidence that 90% of the articles proposed by that joint group are finally on the list today to be declared open. That's a form of support. That is also the positive thing about this double democratic exercise, which now has the opportunity to seek acceptance. It is not just a question of supporting the other side of the language border, it is a question of political support tout court within this Parliament. I fully agree with Mr Verherstraeten when he says that the N-VA is failing again to look for allies. During the entire constitutional debate we had to take note of the fact that there were few allies. There has actually been no effort to build alliances either. That is very often the case when it comes to institutional matters. The N-VA talks a lot about it, but rarely gets anything done. Then it is other parties that need to reform the State and ensure more Flemish autonomy. That's what people see coming back every time, even now. The N-VA could have used this to look for allies to realize parts of their political project. It is not ours, but one leaves behind even to seek that support. As far as the list itself is concerned, I have a few things to say. The list before us today contains a lot of interesting elements. Everyone in this hemisphere knows that the Ecolo Green Group is a big fan of declaring Article 7a open so that a real climate law can be voted on in the next legislature. Mr Gilkinet has just spoken about a number of fundamental rights that could and should be put in place in the Constitutional version 2019..................................................................................................................................................................................................... I was just about to respond to the arguments of those who say that the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde federal constituency is huge. I fundamentally disagree with that. That's bullshit. Mr Van Rompuy, it is even my conviction that, should there have been a federal constituency in that period, there would not have been so much time wasted on Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. At that time, it would not have paid to campaign, to do politics on the hood of that other language border. At that time, it would not have paid to say "nous ne sommes demoneurs de rien" as a French-speaking person, that we do not have to solve that problem. A country with a federal constituency would not lock itself up for as long or bury itself in a matter like Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. So these two actually have nothing to do with each other. On the contrary, a country with a federal constituency is a country with fewer crises, such as Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. During the period of that crisis, I was allowed to start in Parliament. This had the great advantage of parliamentary freedom, the freedom that we know a little bit today, but had a very big disadvantage, in particular that a lot of precious time has indeed been lost. The federal constituency will make for less lost time instead of more lost time. I agree with Mr Dewael on the Senate. Mr Clarinval, that is also a reason to update the 2014 list. We have a first experience now. The Senate is finished. There are no more directly elected senators. There is an ambition to make it a meeting parliament. Let us be honest, however, ladies and gentlemen, that ambition has not been fulfilled. So, in 2019 one must dare say: here are a number of articles to abolish or thoroughly reform the Senate in the next legislature. In our view, other elements such as citizens' initiative, joint committees and referendums serve to renew and deepen politics. As far as the modernisation of the royal family is concerned, the king should not disappear for me, but in the Constitution there are a number of things that really need to be renewed. Bilingual education, the last point I would like to mention. There is a lot of talk about Brussels in this House, but too little is being done for Brussels. Brussels is longing for a binding project and for reforms that are part of a new reality, in which people, especially young people, do not want to make a choice between N and F, but rather want to feel like a crock, a Brusselser. Let us then ensure that this place where they can become Brussels citizens is also a Brussels place. That is why we call for Article 135a to enable bilingual education in Brussels and to take steps in the coming years. It's an interesting list, but it's a list that can be better. Our group is a asking party and will vote in this way in the near future, in order not to include Article 1 in the list of articles of the Constitution that need to be revised. However, our group is asking to leave the possibility of working on the Constitution, our constitutional culture, in the form of a preamble, in a very participatory way, according to Icelandic and Irish models. For us this is not an end in itself, but it could be an interesting means and an interesting route. That is why I hope that our plea and the amendment tabled by the Flemish Liberal colleagues will succeed, so that at least that possibility exists for the coming years. As far as we are concerned, the Senate must be abolished, which is why a number of additional articles are being proposed to make this possible. A final addition we wish to make in this plenary session is to declare parts of Article 8 open in order to allow voting rights for non-Belgen in the regional elections. This question particularly sounds very loud from the Brussels city, from that cosmopolitan city, to give Brussels citizens of non-Belgian nationality the chance to be part of that city community, of that political community, of that Brussels community. This would also be a good thing for the other regions. So we are proposing a number of improvements or adjustments to a list to improve them, but also a great appreciation for the list that is before us today. Finally, the Prime Minister was just offended when I feared a certain comparison. We must always be careful with this, but more than parliamentary caution, it is now time for restraint at government level. After three or four weeks of pressing, I do not really understand why the Prime Minister has still not understood the message. I think it is totally inappropriate that a minority cabinet, representing one in three MPs, representing one in three compatriots, is threatening to hypothesize, amend and bring back to a 2014 exercise in Parliament's 2014 exercise. I really don't see why the Prime Minister, who scores one out of three in this Parliament today, would backfire a majority in Chamber and Senate and fall back on a majority in Parliament of 2014. I really don't see that. In this respect, I hope that everyone, every representative of the people, every democrat in this hemisphere, will make every effort until the last minute to make it clear to the government that there is a formal reality, that the government has to make a list, but that there is also a political and a social reality, that the government should accept a parliamentary exercise. It will never be about our parliamentary exercise alone. It'll never be a list of Ecolo and Green alone. However, a list for which there is a majority in Parliament must be adopted by a minority cabinet. If the government does not do so, it calls for similarities with less democratic regimes. And that can't be the intention, especially in this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Onkelinx was pleased to pay tribute to me earlier. She's not in session, but she can hear me and maybe even listens to me. I'd like to send him the compliment. André Frédéric will send him the message if he wishes. It is now completing a long-term government and parliamentary path. Perhaps it will allow another constitutionalist who is close to him to say that I congratulate her for her tenacity, her determination and also for the energy she puts to defend her positions. We saw him again this afternoon. I think that had to be said. Ladies and gentlemen, this is probably my last speech in the House of Representatives. It will not surprise you if I take this opportunity to speak to you about the Constitution: today's Constitution and tomorrow's Constitution. First of all, I will talk about today's Constitution, and more specifically about article 195 of the Constitution. I have said it and I have written it on several occasions, in the text of any Constitution, there is a more important provision than all the others, that is the one which provides for the procedure for the revision of the Constitution. It's a bit surprising. This is the Constitution which, in an article, in a provision, says what it is: "I am the Constitution. I want to be the Constitution. These are the conditions in which I want to be changed and transformed." There is no other provision of the Constitution that expresses itself in this way. The least we can do is that the constituted authorities – and we are one – hear this message and respect the will expressed by the constituent power. What does Article 195 of the Constitution say? The Constitution first identifies the pre-constituent power, namely the legislative power, the two chambers and the government. It is he who must design a revision declaration. But the legislative power, in this case, does not make the law. It does not make a norm or rule. It simply allows the future Chambers to change if they wish, if they have the means and the majorities, to amend the Constitution on a number of points. It's the first element. This is Article 195 which identifies the pre-constituent power. Second element. The Constitution determines the purpose of the declaration of revision of the Constitution. We've been talking about this at length in the last few hours. The pre-constituted power, that is, the legislative power, must state the articles, the paragraphs, the specific provisions. I note that he cannot quote all the provisions of the Constitution. We cannot make a comprehensive review. We can only make partial revisions on the points (as specified in Article 195) "subject to revision". I say by the way that this is what fundamentally vitiates the proposals of the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang and by referring it to the oblivion, we return to the paths of constitutional orthodoxy. Third. The Constitution, Article 195, then invites the three actors whom it appoints (Chamber, Senate, Government) to act - I insist - in parallel. To use the language of athletics, I would say that everyone runs in their hallway. Everyone will therefore act with the means that are his own, with the skills that he holds at that time and according to the procedure that is his own. To take only this example, the House is not affected by the resignation of the government. She retains the fullness of her skills. The Senate is in the same situation. And there is no shuttle between the two assemblies. As for the government, he resigned. In this case, he sends only routine business, and he must always bear in mind this fundamental reality, when it is up to him to draw up, autonomously, in his corridor, his own list of revisable provisions. There is a doctrine, a traditional jurisprudence. This means that he must work from the list that was in force during the final legislature. I would add that everyone works with their own means and methods. The Chamber shall vote. The Senate voted. The government, on the other hand, decides according to the consensus procedure. If there is no consensus, there is no declaration. If there is no agreement, there is no declaration. If there is a minimum agreement, the government will have to decide on it. That is what the House's legal service reminds us of, since it tells us that the government is not bound by the statements of the assemblies in law. That is what Article 195 of the Constitution says in its current version, that of today. I will say a word about tomorrow's Constitution, the one we can guess through the revision declaration we are discussing today. This will, of course, be the case if the other actors in the legislative power share the same concern. Anyway, they can't put the bar higher than we can. They can put the bar down, not highlight it at all or not put it at all. To everyone his responsibilities! What can I say about tomorrow's Constitution? First of all, I am interested in what will not be included in the statement under preparation and, first, in article 195 of the Constitution. I'll be right back. By not putting Rule 195 on the House list, our committee – and I hope this House – has a clear language: no flight forward, no revision without a beacon, no revolutionary clean table, no "adventure", as some have said. In doing so, I have the feeling, the conviction, the will also to bequeath to my successors tools to make the Belgian State work. Not to embark on the institutional revolution in the constitutional tracks, which some call for. I know more audacious minds will say it's shyness, even cowardice. I'm not gonna argue with them. I simply think that the precautionary principle does not apply only to environmental matters. It also applies to constitutional matters. What interests me is also a set of provisions that are not revisable: the apparatus of justice, the principle of the monarchy, all the topics on which institutional debates can be opened, whether at the Academy, in our universities, in our circles of political studies, in those of our parties but not here, in any case for five years. The institutional movement does not bring any good. What interests me as well and what worries me – this is my third point – is a number of provisions that could be included in the statement, as it emerges from the committee's work. We discussed it in the early afternoon. Nevertheless, I note three articles in particular. This is first of all article 1, which sets out the principle of the federal organization of the State. And we would like to include principles for the functioning of democratic life? But that has nothing to do with it! Title 1 of the Constitution, which includes articles 1 to 5, does not speak of the principles of the functioning of the State, but of its structure, of its form: the State, the Communities, the Regions, the provinces, the communes, the borders of the State. It is therefore truly inappropriate to put principles of political life in this Title 1 and, therefore, in this Article 1. Next comes article 99 of the Constitution, which enshrines the principle of the joint composition of the Council of Ministers. Mr Verherstraeten said earlier that he did not want to touch on this principle of parity between Francophones and Dutch speakers in the Council of Ministers. He is right: it is the Bible, it is a dogma, it is a foundation of our federal system of government. But then, Mr Verherstraeten, if you want to be logical with yourself, you have to table an amendment stating that it is not Article 99 of the Constitution that is subject to revision, but only Article 99(1), to allow, for example, a sufficient number of women to be present in the Council of Ministers. Put this amendment down and we will vote on it! Then there is – and I mentioned earlier – Article 63(4) of the Constitution, which confers specific rights on French-speaking and Dutch-speaking people in Brussels and the periphery. It's a text that I don't compromise. I could also refer to section 43, which deals with language groups. Some may even wonder whether this kind of principle should not be changed. These are articles – and I say by the way – dating back to 1970, the first revision of the Constitution, which laid the foundations of a pre-federal state – foreshadowing the federal state. Definitely, we touch the essentials! Without wishing to take a too solemn tone, I appeal to all federalists in this country to ensure that the federal plan for the organization of our state is not put into discussion. I call on all those who want to participate in the Community peace process in and around Brussels not to violate the rights and freedoms of the citizens of this important part of our country. I appeal to all those who are attentive to the great balances that underlie our State so as not to venture into operations that could unbalance it. That, ladies and gentlemen, will be my last word. I gave you my constitutional creed. You will have understood that I am not entirely reassured and that I am not leaving the soul completely serene. But I am leaving with, under the arm, yesterday's Constitution and, in the spirit, tomorrow's Constitution. I think both are conciliatory. They can agree. They can be part of the continuity that, for nearly 190 years, has been the hallmark of our State. That is, in any case, all the good I wish them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u68	Mr President, we have just heard Francis Delperée deliver us a message which should certainly inspire not only those who are still sitting in this House, but also those who will be sitting in the next Parliament. His clear pedagogy, which is so customary to him, has obviously been found. His commitment to the meaning of the Constitution, which for some could almost be subject to permanent revisions, has been restored to the point of being only a semblance of a fundamental text. He reminded us – I thank him – that when we push the Constitution, we often push the very conditions of understanding between the citizens. Because it is because the Constitution sets benchmarks, so that there are balances respected, that citizens can trust the institutions of the State. Thanks to Francis Delperee. It is true that this debate tonight is taking place in particular political circumstances. As always, when political circumstances are specific, the development of a constitutional review process is somewhat chaotic, delicate. The real heart of the debate will be within the government first. When one hears the disagreements between the partners of the government coalition, for what is left of it, one cannot say that today there is great certainty as to how the third branch of the legislature will behave. I do not agree with those who have told us that the government, because it is in day-to-day business, is no longer the third branch of the legislative power, but that it is only the executor – or executor – of the will of the majority of the two chambers. I'm not joining this analysis. First, because it is not consistent with traditional constitutional education. Then, because it presents a danger. I say this particularly to the attention of Francophones. Let us assume that by the sole will of a majority of a linguistic group, in both assemblies, there would be the adoption of a declaration of revision of the Constitution to the detriment of the interests of the French-speaking minority population in this country. Is it to be said that the guarantee of linguistic parity that ensures the interests of the minority linguistic group should not be preserved because the government in day-to-day affairs could only carry out the will of the only majority from a linguistic group? Who wants to assume this political responsibility? Who wants to take on this constitutional choice that seems far removed from the balances that Francis Delperée reminded us of the importance of our Belgian constitutional system? So I do not subscribe to the speech of those who say that once the House has spoken, there is an automatic effect that would like the Senate to follow the House and that the government would only have to endorse it. No, there are three branches of the legislative power to assume a pre-constituent mission and each assumes its own political responsibilities! Like Francis Delperee, I am delighted that we have been able to avoid certain dangers, but they are not all. Of course, there is no danger of the revision of article 195. By the way, I still have a bitter taste of the constitutional pirouette that allowed for the introduction of a transitional provision in article 195 in the context of a previous reform of the State. It wasn't the greatest constitutional elegance we've ever known. We know it might have been the price of some agreements. More fundamentally, some people describe article 195 as a barrier to the review procedure, to those who want this permanent revision of the Constitution. In other words, whenever there is a political obstacle arising from a constitutional impediment, one would like to be able to eliminate the constitutional obstacle by a majority of circumstances. No. The Constitution does not deserve to be dealt with in this way, if we are to preserve a number of balances in our complex, delicate and sometimes fragile political system. I continue to believe that Article 195, its two-step procedure, its slow maturation procedure, which allows us to verify how far we can start a process – does a beginning of consensus already emerge at the level of the pre-constituent, before engaging in the Constituent? – is useful and even necessary in a country such as Belgium. It is true that when we read the proposals for a revision declaration, we find that the boat is more loaded than in 2014. If my calculations are correct, there are 27 more items. Like others, I will reject the proposals for a revision declaration on the institutional architecture of the Belgian State. I am surprised that some people want to talk about the Senate. I would also have ideas at the institutional level and would like to see at last a real Senate of federated entities as there are in most federal states. This is part of the balance of powers. I would like to see a process of state reform that gives the Senate a real role. That would be right in the way we reflect on the evolution of a number of key debates. But I admit that this is not the time. I am surprised that some are moving forward by saying that they want to delete the Senate. Let's review these articles! Let's delete the Senate, let's throw it away! It's like it's annoyed! It is never annoyance in our country to change federal institutions. Every time, we want to weaken them, weaken them, or even deny them. Nor will I participate in this debate which aims to tell us – with all the esteem I have for Patrick Dewael: "Or you accept the preamble, either you must accept the revision of Article 1." First, because preamble and constitutional provisions do not have the same legal scope. If I may allow myself at this hour, I am not very focused on the concept of preamble. The preamble, in the Constitution, is as in other areas, it can be pleasant and give rise to many fantasies and hopes, but it does not replace the act. More fundamentally, a clear constitutional provision, as the constituents have written since 1831, is better than the long logorrhoea of a preamble, even if the writing of it was entrusted to some literary pen. Perhaps I could suggest to our friend Richard Miller, who is a real good feather, and who may have time in the coming months, to try to exercise. But let's be honest. It is not the preamble that will suddenly give rise to some kind of accession to a constitutional text. No, it is the clarity of the constitutional provisions that will guarantee the rights, fundamental freedoms, the balance of powers and the consensus necessary to respect the institutions. I fear that a preamble is merely an exercise of constitutional impotence, if you will allow me to speak. Finally, I would like to say that, in the course of the next parliamentary term, for those who will be sitting, there is finally a willingness to tackle Title II and the provisions of that Title on rights and freedoms. At the very least, this title should be changed, first of all in order to bring itself into line with certain international standards, but also to deepen the meaning of a number of rights and freedoms in areas which, in fact, show that we are no longer concerned with "counter-power" freedoms, but with the freedoms necessary for the cohesion of a society. This is probably another aspect of the dynamics of this title, which should be highlighted. Yes, this is probably the real work to be done in the next legislature. Like others, I will no longer have the satisfaction of sitting in this assembly, but I dare to believe that the pride of this text will still exist among those who sit. This was the origin of Belgium. I am referring to this title of the Constitution, which was particularly innovative in 1831, that of rights and freedoms. It has served as a model for many constitutions in Europe and even beyond. It may be hoped that, if there is anything left to preserve, to value, to give meaning to this country, it is a revised Title II with more requirements, in order to ensure respect for the rights of all in that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u69	Mr President, what naive ideological statements about the Constitution we have heard here. There is a rigid procedure in our Constitution, and that is important to make people live together, to connect people and to make the citizens believe in the Constitution. How do all those other countries that do not have a rigid procedure for revising the Constitution do that? There are many more countries in that situation. The three most rigid procedures are found in the United States, the Netherlands and Belgium. Are these the only three countries in which citizens believe in the State and in which the citizens are connected? This is certainly not the case in Belgium. That's pretty obvious now. How naive and above all how ideological can one be? That story has been told here in Belgium for a long time and is constantly repeated. In the long run, a lot of people start to believe it. A constitution doesn't have to have a rigid procedure. There are many more constitutions in the world with a smooth revision procedure. There are even unwritten constitutions in the world. In Belgium we have such a rigid procedure, inherited from the Netherlands. Indeed, we have adopted our Article 195 from the Netherlands in slightly modified form. Secondly, one also argues, inspired by ideology, that one should not want to start Community adventures, but should be busy with the people, who are important, that one should build bridges and connect people. I have heard all this from French-speaking members and from a few Dutch-speaking members. Mr Maingain is at least honest. Mr Maingain has no hidden agenda. He always says it's in front of him. That's what he's doing this time. What does Mr Maingain say? He says he will address the French speakers. He also says that they must support the small coup d'état of Charles Michel, who wants to go against the will of the Chamber and Senate, because the minority in Parliament then makes it a majority. That is what Mr Maingain says, and he is at least sincere in that. He makes no detours along big words like Mrs Onkelinx or Mr Clarinval. Mr Maingain says what it says. I'm doing the same thing. We have that in common. It may be the only thing we have in common, but we already have that in common. I will therefore address my Flemish colleagues. Will you indeed be so naive as to allow you to take up that discourse and not include Article 195 in the Constitutional Reform Declaration? I shall now come to a third point. What naivety! What a naive nerve some have! After having put the Community on ice for five years and having set up a socio-economic recovery government, we end up with a budget gap of over EUR 8 billion, a deficit that is still going to reach 11 billion. And even then we are told here that it is important to re-focus ourselves on the socio-economic side next time. After five years, have you still not understood that it is a failure? It fails, because at federal level your budgetary mass has become too small to make any savings. There is an interest in linking the socio-economic recovery with a state reform in every hypothesis. The Michael I government has proved this with a shining eye: a recovery policy is impossible if it does not go hand in hand with a state reform. I also note that, in our assembly, something new has been going on with the declarations of constitutional reform since 2014. In the past, these statements were wide, very broad. Sometimes, after the elections, people started to do that, sometimes they didn't. Sometimes it took a while, but those statements always allowed for a lot. Moreover, all state reforms have shown that even these broad statements were often too little broad. Very often, implicit constitutional reforms have been carried out, which were in fact contrary to Article 195. Now the declaration of constitutional reform, which used to be quite neutral, has become a barrier. Di Rupo started to block a state reform through the declaration of constitutional reform. It's getting worse now. If Mr Clarinval gets his way, there will be only 12 articles left in the Constitutional Reform Declaration. Then there is a prime minister who thinks he is king and thinks he can refuse all sorts of things and delete them from the statements adopted by the Chamber and Senate. It has become very strange to hear arguments here about Article 1 of the Constitution, which simply states that Belgium is a federal state consisting of Communities and Regions. It is claimed that this is Community and warns that it would be possible to register there that Belgium is a confederal state. So what? That's the same story as Article 7a. Then it's on paper and it doesn't change anything else. I should like to warn against this new phenomenon in which the declaration of constitutional reform becomes a barrier. Besides, it's a lie. This means that we cannot touch the institutions, but we can transfer very far-reaching powers. One can even divide social security without a constitutional revision. I'm not the only one who says that. Marc Uyttendaele also writes that in his manual. Thus, state reform can go very far, but if there is no declaration of constitutional reform and in the fake-news society, the talk society, in which we live, one is giving a great gift to those who will call for confederalism, confederalism, confederalism until 26 May, but on 27 May will declare that the Marrakech government has ensured that we cannot reform the state, since there is no declaration of constitutional reform. So after 26 or 27 May we will get a new turn from Bracke. I do not know who will have to use it at that time, but there will be a repetition of the past. I also hear from the MR that the monarchy should not be modernised. What is that image of Belgium? A completely obsolete monarchy must guarantee that a completely obsolete country survives. That's unbelievable. The Senate? Nor will it be abolished. A parliamentary institution that looks more like a retirement home than a parliament must save and maintain the old, solidified country of Belgium. It is then curious to hear from those who declare that they will not do anything at Community level, because it is too dangerous and one has to connect and build bridges, that Article 7a should be included on the list. Article 7a is also Community, since the proposal for a special law affects the powers of the Länder. It is, please, a re-federalisation. So that is Community, but for Mr Clarinval, the MR and Prime Minister Michel, that article is not Community, because they like it. If they like it, then it is not Community. If they do not like it, then it is Community. That's the new rule. That's the kind of thing I find absurd. I believe that the door should be opened as widely as possible. Cases have taken place with Article 195, following the 2010 Constitutional Review Declaration. One could indeed have a lot of comments on that, because things were not quite kosher. Moreover, the Constitution is not only the text of the Constitution. The Constitution is also what has been done with it in the past. What a two-thirds majority of Parliament has done with it, in my opinion and in Mrs Wouters' view, is now an integral part of the Constitution. That's what we wrote in our Grendel book. We will not be more holy than the Pope and certainly not more holy than Mr Verherstraeten. That's why we won't try. I also wonder what Open Vld and CD&V will actually do in the Michael II administration? You are in favour of a broader but still limited declaration of constitutional reform, and you are going to have a Prime Minister here who comes to smash the door in your face, as hard as he can. The Prime Minister has repeatedly told Secretary of State Francken that he had to turn his finger a few times before sending a tweet. However, I have the impression that this morning he thought he had to give an imitation of Theo Francken and that he didn't really spin his finger a few times before he tweeted. So it could be that in the Michel II administration only the MR is left. That is also a possibility in the long term. It's even beginning to look forward to it. It is terrifying to know that in current cases the government might be in current cases for a very long time after the 26 May elections. As far as our voting behaviour is concerned, we naturally believe that many things in the Constitution need to be revised. Mrs Wouters and I have also put forward a number of proposals for this. However, in view of the hypocrisy we are witnessing here, in which the declaration of constitutional reform is to be made a barrier, we will adapt our voting behaviour to the situation. We will approve the opening up of Article 1 and we will do so just because all the French speakers here say that it is Community. All the other proposals, however useful, even those we have tabled ourselves, will not be approved. We are also tabling an amendment to open Article 195. You can also do anything you like through article 195. We will approve that amendment to include Article 195 in the list. I know I will be disappointed, but I hope that the Flemings will not again be the absent majority, but once the majority present. They can now prove that with the adoption of the amendment on Article 195.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the PTB is the only national or even international party in this House. In itself, we are not against a number of constitutional amendments, for example, to create a federal constituency. I heard that others also supported this view. There is also – as we must say – a series of subjects that ask questions. In fact, some government ministers, Michel, complain that they have to manage broken skills and believe that eventually the re-federalization of certain skills would not be a bad thing; I am thinking of mobility, energy, housing, etc. However, we do not consider that giving the keys to a new Community war today is a priority. Indeed, it is known that some parties such as the N-VA use community tensions between the various workers in this country to finally sleep the people and rally them to the trailer of the Voka and its interests. We will remember the statement of the president of the N-VA who said that the Voka was his boss. Moreover, it would be very useful to extend a range of fundamental rights in the Constitution. I am thinking of the right to energy, the right to water, the right to healthy, balanced and accessible food. It can be said that these are formal rights. This is indeed a discussion to be conducted. What is the effectiveness of a series of rights enshrined in the Constitution? In any event, clarity must be given to the fundamental rights that must be enshrined in the Constitution and that are not so today. The last priority I want to address is the enlargement of democracy: to extend the right to vote to those who may have that right. I think of young people from the age of 16. The PTB defends the possibility of voting for these young people and for foreigners. As far as the current situation is concerned, I note that young people have mobilized, have been political actors even if they do not have the right to vote. Those high school students who went down the street to defend the climate show that they have an exacerbated conscience. By going down the street, even without the right to vote, they forced the government and some parties to move where they didn't want to. These young people have a political intervention competence. They must be given the right to vote even if this is not the only way of doing politics. I come to the end of my speech. We live in what can be called a "low intensity" democracy. In the end, people are told: "Go and vote every five years and, during the time of the legislature, trust those you have elected!" Your elected officials will then make index jumps, pensions at 67 and VAT on electricity at 21% in the back, all points that were not part of their programs. But it doesn't matter! Five years later, they say: "We understand, we will change. Reveal for us and you will see, it will be wonderful!" The yellow vest movement, which has developed in France and Belgium, has made the citizens' initiative referendum an important demand, which we repeat as a proposal. This point covers two aspects. First of all, it is the citizens' initiative, from which citizens can put a request on the agenda. In our proposal, we consider that with 100,000 signatures they can do so. Secondly, this provision is binding. Unlike a popular consultation – which is only required for an indicative purpose – this referendum would have decision-making power. To that end, we believe that four articles of the Constitution must be changed: articles 36, 39bis, 41 and 195. We believe that a referendum should also be able to change aspects of the Constitution. That's it, Mr. President. I'm done. I guess we'll be able to move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u71	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed. We shall now proceed to the examination of the provisions proposed for revision. We turn to the discussion of the provisions proposed for revision. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the examination of the provisions proposed for revision. (Rgt 85, 4) (3708/2) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion of the provisions proposed for revision. (Rgt 85, 4) (3708/2)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u72	Sub-amendment No. 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Subamendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to Amendment No 1 by Patrick Dewael. The vote on the sub-amendment shall be held. The vote on the sub-amendment is reserved. Amendment No 1 by Patrick Dewael proposes to add an introductory provision to the Constitution. Amendment No. 1 by Patrick Dewael tends to add an introductory provision to the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u73	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 1 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of article 1 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u74	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u75	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 7a of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 7bis of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u76	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u77	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise the heading of Title II of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of the title of Title II of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u78	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article to ensure the right to security. We shall proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to security. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert an article in order to ensure the enjoyment of rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article allowing the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u79	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to introduce a new article extending access to, and safeguarding, the rights enshrined in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. We shall proceed to consider the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article extending access to and the guarantee of the rights provided for in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u80	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert new articles incorporating the rights already recognised in the European and international treaties binding on Belgium. We shall proceed to consider the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting new articles containing the rights already recognized in the European and international conventions which are binding in Belgium. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to introduce a new article guaranteeing the right to life as well as the prohibition of torture and slavery. We turn to the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to life and the prohibition of torture and slavery. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. Amendment No 9 by Laurette Onkelinx cs proposes to delete the words "the right to life as well as" from the declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article guaranteeing the prohibition of torture and slavery. Amendment No. 9 by Laurette Onkelinx cs tends to remove the words "the right to life and" from the declaration to insert a new article in Title II of the Constitution guaranteeing the prohibition of torture and slavery. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article which fully guarantees the right to a fair trial. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article fully guaranteeing the right to a fair trial. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to introduce a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognised by Title II in accordance with the international and European conventions for the protection of fundamental rights ratified by Belgium. We shall proceed to consider the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognized in Title II in accordance with the international and European treaties for the protection of fundamental rights ratified by Belgium. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert an article stating that the interpretation of the Constitution must not seek to destroy rights and freedoms. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article aimed at enshrining that the interpretation of the Constitution cannot be aimed at the destruction of rights and freedoms. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article concerning the safeguarding of the rights recognised by Title II. We shall proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article on the guarantee of the rights recognized in Title II. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to introduce a new article on the conditions to be met by the restrictions imposed on the rights recognised by Title II, provided that the provisions of this Title do not otherwise exist. We shall proceed to consider the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the conditions to be met by restrictions on the rights recognized in Title II, provided that the provisions of that title do not provide otherwise. Amendment No 8 of Laurette Onkelinx cs proposes to add a new article in Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a provision on the prohibition of freedom-destructive parties. Amendment No 8 by Laurette Onkelinx cs tends to add a new article in Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a provision on the prohibition of liberticide parties. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u81	Amendment No 10 by Georges Gilkinet cs proposes to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 8, third and fourth paragraphs, of the Constitution. Amendment No. 10 by Georges Gilkinet cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 8, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u82	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 10 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposed declaration of revision of article 10 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u83	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u84	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposed declaration of revision of article 11 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u85	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u86	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11a of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 11bis of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u87	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 12 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 12 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u88	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 19 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 19 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u89	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 20 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 20 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u90	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 21 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 21 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 21 of the Constitution to add a member in order to extend the protection of the servants of worship to delegates of bodies recognised by law providing moral services on the basis of a non-confessional conception of life referred to in Article 181 (2) of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 21 of the Constitution with a view to adding a paragraph aimed at extending the protection granted to ministers of worship to delegates of organizations recognized by law who offer moral assistance according to a philosophical non-denominational concept, as referred to in article 181, § 2, of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u91	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 22 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 22 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u92	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 23 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 23 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 23, third paragraph, of the Constitution, in order to add a provision concerning the right of citizens to universal postal, communication and mobility services. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 23, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, with a view to adding a provision on the right of citizens to a universal service in the field of post, communication and mobility. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u93	Amendment No 2 by Patrick Dewael proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 24 (1) and (3) of the Constitution. Amendment No. 2 by Patrick Dewael is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 24, § 1 and § 3 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u94	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 25 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution in order to add a paragraph in order to extend the safeguards of the printing press to the other means of information. We shall proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of article 25 of the Constitution, with a view to adding a paragraph allowing for the extension of the guarantees of the press to other means of information. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u95	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 28 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 28 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u96	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 29 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 29 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u97	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 39a of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 39a of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u98	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 41 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 41 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u99	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 43 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 43 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u100	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 44 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 44 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u101	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 48 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 48 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u102	Amendment No 11 by Kristof Calvo cs proposes that the list of the provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 56 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 11 by Kristof Calvo cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 56 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u103	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 57 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 57 of the Constitution. The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u104	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 60 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of article 60 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u105	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 61 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 61 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u106	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u107	Amendment No 3 by Patrick Dewael proposes that the list of the provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by the first sentence of Article 62 (3) of the Constitution. Amendment No. 3 by Patrick Dewael is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by the first sentence of Article 62(3) of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u108	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 63 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 63 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. Amendment No 5 by Laurette Onkelinx cs Amendment No 5 by Laurette Onkelinx cs tends to remove Article 63 from the list of articles of the Constitution which must be declared to be revised and included in Article 63, § 1 to 3. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u109	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 67 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 67 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u110	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 68 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 68 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u111	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 69 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 69 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u112	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 70 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to consider the proposed declaration of revision of article 70 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u113	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 71 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 71 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u114	Amendment No 12 by Kristof Calvo cs proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 73 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 12 by Kristof Calvo cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 73 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u115	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 75 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 75 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u116	The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u117	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 99 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 99 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved. Amendment No 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs. Amendment No. 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs tends to remove Article 99 from the list of articles of the Constitution which must be declared to be revised and included in the first paragraph of Article 99 with a view to imposing parity between women and men in the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u118	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 104 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 104 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u119	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 109 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 109 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u120	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 110 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 110 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u121	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 111 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 111 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u122	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 113 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 113 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u123	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 132 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 132 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u124	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 135a of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to consider the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 135bis of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u125	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 142 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 142 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u126	Amendment No 13 by Kristof Calvo cs proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 143 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 13 by Kristof Calvo cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 143 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u127	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 146 of the Constitution. We shall now proceed to the consideration of the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 146 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u128	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 148 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 148 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u129	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 150 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 150 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u130	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 151 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 151 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u131	Amendment No 14 of Servais Verherstraeten cs proposes to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 152, second and third paragraphs, of the Constitution. Amendment No. 14 by Servais Verherstraeten cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by article 152, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u132	Amendment No According to Servais Verherstraeten cs, the list of provisions proposed for revision should be supplemented by Article 157 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 15 by Servais Verherstraeten cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 157 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u133	Amendment No 16 of Servais Verherstraeten cs proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 161 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 16 by Servais Verherstraeten cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 161 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u134	We shall examine the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 167 of the Constitution. We turn to the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 167 of the Constitution. Are you sure you don't mind? No observation? [[No]] The vote on the proposal for a declaration shall be held. The vote on the proposed declaration is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u135	Amendment No 4 by Patrick Dewael proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 181 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 4 by Patrick Dewael is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 181 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u136	Amendment No 7 of Veerle Wouters cs proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 195 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 7 by Veerle Wouters cs is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved. Amendment No 17 by Peter De Roover proposes that the list of provisions proposed for revision be supplemented by Article 195 of the Constitution. Amendment No. 17 by Peter De Roover is intended to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. The vote on the amendment will be held. The vote on the amendment is reserved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u137	Mr President, in our Amendment No. 17 We propose that the list of proposed provisions should be supplemented by Article 195. That's what I announced. I call on all colleagues to put aside their fear of the voter. I call on all colleagues to put aside their fears for the next Parliament. They can do so by supporting this amendment, so that democracy can take place in its entirety, even after the elections. I call on them not to close the door to the modernisation of any part that two thirds of the Members of the next Parliament can support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u138	Thank you, Mr De Roover. So far as the article-by-article examination of the draft declaration for revision of the Constitution is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Colleagues, I am the rapporteur myself. I refer to the written report. For your information, I would like to inform you that, following this general discussion, we shall proceed immediately to the vote following the debate we are having.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a very detailed report on a delicate dossier on which we have debated and examined the whole of the legislative period for four and a half years, and on which experts have looked. The parties concerned were able to be heard and to defend themselves, although this was not strictly possible. In short, a great deal of work has been done in this respect, and all this has been done in the public meetings of the Audit Board and behind closed doors in the working group on political parties. Now this document is before us in this hemisphere, the centre of our democracy, following a decision by the Audit Board on Tuesday 26 March. In the last 30 years, it has not happened that this dossier has been presented in the hemisphere. In those four and a half years in which we have been working on it, that is never the case. We respect that. We are here as representatives of the people. I therefore call on everyone to look at this dossier as objectively as possible and to think outside the comfort zone of their political party. I call on everyone to look at this file as a representative of the people. After all, we are going to decide on the sharing of taxpayers' money among our citizens. Our responsibility towards taxpayers is therefore enormous. So this is not about spending taxpayers' money for policy and needs, but about giving it to ourselves. My speech is divided into four parts. The first is about the experts, the second is about the content and then two proposals follow on behalf of the N-VA. First of all, about the experts. Colleagues, who are full of political innovation and the GRECO, should be ashamed of how the experts are now being set aside. They do have full voting rights in the Audit Board, but they are not part of the plenary. The four experts have been added to the Audit Committee on repeated questions from the GRECO. The GRECO took the following view on the Audit Committee, and I quote from the book 'The functioning of the Federal Parliament' by our Registrar, Mr Marc Van der Hulst............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The GRECO asked for a system to monitor the funding of the parties and the election campaigns, which is independent as far as possible from political parties. The compromise to respond to this remark was typically Belgian. A small first step in the right direction, one might say. A small first step towards progress, because since the sixth state reform, the Audit Board has 17 political members, supplemented by two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking experts. The Committee shall be chaired by the President of the Chamber, who shall not have the right to vote. Members and experts shall have full voting rights in the committee. This composition is laid down by law, a law which all the parties represented here have supported. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we noticed during the discussions in the Audit Committee? None of these four experts have ever spoken out for dotation. That seems to me to be an important signal. After all, I think we can say that they are less politically bound than we are. These experts are not the least of them: Mr Herman Matthijs is a professor at two universities, he is a member of the Supreme Council of Finance, specializing in budget, donations, Court of Auditors, government administration, government budgets, United States and much more. Mr. Emmanuel Vandenbossche is Professor, Constitutional Specialist, Specialist in State and Administrative Law, Chairman of the Permanent Commission for Language Monitoring. For the record, my list of experts is not exhaustive. Mr Raymond Molle is an expert at the Court of Auditors, honorary member of the Court of Auditors, an expert in social security and budget. Mr Philippe Quertainmont gave public rights to the ULB and is a member of the FSMA. None of the four experts have spoken out in favour of those parties who are now asking for the donation. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the content of the debate. I'm actually standing here with a bit of substitute shame towards our comrades. The true nature of the French-speaking communists is emerging, because they are now asking for money. They ask taxpayers' money to use for their campaign, when they are not entitled to that money. After all, our entire society is organized around the fact that people are not paid until they have done a good job. And they didn't do a good job in Flanders, because they came up with a separate list and didn't get elected. Mr Peter Mertens was speaking outside today, but he is not going to be in here. It is the two PTB colleagues who have to work for their money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u141	Let Mrs. De Coninck speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u142	Mr President, PTB is therefore not entitled to the money. You guys open the gate for a second BHV. Is democracy wrongly handing out taxpayers' money to each other? The law is very clear. They came up with two list numbers and under two different names. Mr Hedebouw, now it's for your own pocket. For us, it is essential that we apply the law. Nevertheless, we understand smaller parties. The N-VA will never forget where she came from. I'll get back to you later. In our view, the law is very clear and is in line with our state structure and with our various state reforms. After all, we read the following in the parliamentary preparations for the law. "A national party is not, in principle, excluded from funding, but must have at least two directly elected representatives, one in both language groups." The PTB does not comply with that provision. The amount to DéFI and PP is actually even worse. It's also pretty essential. It's obvious that that amount can't be. After all, it goes completely against the spirit of the law. For lucrative reasons, they have only placed lists in Flemish Brabant. It was just here about the problem of BHV. I'm from the Flemish Rand. I know these problems over there. It is essential that a French-speaking party, which lists for lucrative reasons in Flemish Brabant, is not rewarded for this. In that sense, the judgment of the French-speaking judge is sentence. After all, he reverses the reasoning. The judge ruled that a party is considered a political party in all regions as soon as it lists in all constituencies of a region. At that time, that party is entitled to a variable margin for all votes, while the law clearly states that lists must be placed in all the constituencies of a region. We absolutely cannot agree to this. This is a mockery for those who have fought for years for the division of BHV. I am looking at colleague Van Rompuy, but he is not here. Colleagues, the most punished in the case of DéFI is that they have an elected person living in Flanders in this half-round. Mrs. Caprasse lives in Kraainem. If she had run for office on the list of Flemish Brabant and had been elected there, then perhaps the problem did not arise. However, she herself chose to be on the Brussels list, as the second behind Mr Maingain. As a resident of a facility municipality, it can do this. On the lists in Flemish Brabant they have put a number of lame good guys who got a few votes without being elected, but yet they want to drive in the money for those votes. So far, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken in terms of content. I said earlier that I would also make two proposals. You know that we have tabled a bill. Our bill does not interpret the law, but amends it. We felt that the choice between the Region and the Community was too broad, and we made a firm choice for the Community. Of course, this choice also has an impact on the financing of seats obtained in Brussels. In our view, a Brussels list should be linked to a list in the French-speaking or Dutch-speaking Community. They have to make some kind of declaration of consistency, just as it is for co-opted senators. After all, parties should not be given money for votes that have not led to a vote in a legislative body. A second proposal, if you are going to vote next to the recommendations of the experts of the Audit Board, will still not be resolved, because these amounts are not provided for in the Court's budget. (Reaction by Mrs Temmerman) No, Mrs Temmerman, these amounts are not provided for. Mr Frédéric also thinks so, but I have the report of the Management Committee. The additional amount has not even been requested. I quote from the minutes of the September 2018 meeting when discussing the Court's budget. "Considering the complaint lodged by Défi, PP and PTB before the Audit Board, it should be noted that an increase in the amount of the subsidy - i.e. additional tax money - will be necessary if these parties are to be right. However, the additional amount, which is slightly more than EUR 2 million, will only be requested after the decision of the committee concerned." The amount is therefore not foreseen. If you vote in favour of this proposal, then Parliament must also convene the Comparability Committee, because it has the power to amend the Court's budget. We should then do so in the last week before we go into the campaign and it should be in plenary that same week. Wouldn't that be a horrible spectacle, letting 2 million extra taxpayers' money go to the parties soon in the last plenary? That's not a bad thing. That is why we have another proposal. Everyone agrees that too much money goes to the parties. The N-VA has made several proposals to revise party funding, according to the principle of "one man, one vote, one cent." That's the fairest thing, but there's no majority for that. The principle of the EUR 500 000 advance now favours small parties. They do not, of course, want to abolish it. We have also repeatedly suggested an index jump for party dots, but you did not agree, Mr Frédéric. You were against that in principle...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u143	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u144	In the Di Rupo administration, you voted for an index jump for two years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u145	What?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u146	If the dotation law is now amended by you, then we propose not to increase the pot that goes to the political parties. We must then redistribute that pot among ourselves and contribute in proportion to the size of the parties, in order to be able to give those additional amounts or to repay those votes, if you think they are entitled to them. That is why we, also in the Comparability Committee, are opposed to an increase in the chamber budget, which would then go entirely to the political parties. We must each contribute our share. The pot that goes to the parties from the general expenditure budget per year through the Chamber amounts to more than EUR 30 million. We want a ceiling and for us all other changes to the amounts you want to make are good, but then they remain within that pot. Colleagues, for all these reasons, I have tabled a motion together with Mr Van Biesen to follow the recommendations of the Audit Committee, especially because it is the will of the experts. Thank you for the support in this dossier, Mr Van Biesen. I think we understand each other, as defenders of the Flemish Rand. It is therefore a pity that another champion of the split of B-H-V in the control committee of 26 March de Flemingen in the Flemish border stabbed a knife in the back because of his voting position. I look forward to the vote of his group on the motion for a resolution by the N-VA, because their voting position will determine this dossier. When they vote again to grant or abstain, CD&V opens the door again for a new, mega-B-H-V. Then each party will be able to submit lists in the other language community, just for lucrative reasons. That's not with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief in view of the advanced hour. It is indeed, as Mrs De Coninck said, a subject that we have discussed for almost four years and a half. I never understood why this had to take so long. We did have a number of experts on the committee, but contrary to what Mrs De Coninck says, those experts did not agree with each other. So other sources had to be consulted. First came the experts from the Chamber. They gave very clear advice that the parties were entitled to this donation. So there's a legal advice. Moreover, there is the court ruling in the Défi case which says that the amount should be given. You're being silly about that, Mrs. De Coninck. This is a court of law ruling, though. Parliament must honour this. Moreover, as has been mentioned in committee, there are precedents. We have always argued, together with other colleagues, that this should be done. We shall vote in this way today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u148	Mr President, the question before us today is a question of a legal nature, not a political one. We must therefore put our political ideas or concerns aside. I know it's not easy in a political assembly. But the question is not whether or not the payment of an endowment to a party is timely, whether or not its leaders are sympathetic, whether or not its ideas are dangerous, whether or not the decision will have an impact on the current election campaign. No, we must provide a legal answer to a legal question, which leads me to three points. The first concerns the context. Indeed, for half a century we have been witnessing the development of conceptions and discourses which are entirely based on the principle of linguistic homogeneity: in administrative, cultural, educational, social and also electoral matters. The speech is known: I stand before my constituents in my Region but, on the other hand, once elected, I am the representative of the nation or, said more prosaicly, I am the spokesman for the interest of all Belgians. No one can tell me: you were elected in Brussels, so you cannot rule on matters of interest other than those of Brussels. We also know that, gradually, in any case from 1968 onwards, all our political parties have been formed on a basis that meets this principle of homogeneity. It's a fact! That's the context. Apart from the context, there is the text and, in legal matters, it is still the text that comes as a matter of priority: the text of the law on the financing of political parties. Article 1 of this law gives us a definition of what a political party is. What's that? The law tells us that it is first and foremost an association of people who, first and foremost, participate in the elections. The second condition is that this party, this association, must have a sufficient political surface and must therefore present candidates in each electoral district of a Community or Region. Third clarification in Article 1, this party must strive to influence the expression of the popular will in the manner defined in its statutes or in its programme. When one refers to a Community or a Region, it is a minimum. I can't just introduce myself to a borough or a province. No, I must have enough space to cover a whole Community or a whole Region. It's a minimum, but it's not a maximum. It is not forbidden for me to have votes, to win votes on the other side of the country and to have votes and votes in another Region or in another Community, even if I do not cover the territory of the Community. I am well aware that some experts or agents have hives from the moment a political party gathers votes beyond the Community or the Region in which it is mainly based. For some, imagining a national party in a state that is regionalized or communalized also gives them hives, but that does not justify anything. It's an epidermal reaction. I also add and say to Mrs De Coninck, the Election Expenses Commission of which I am a member is not competent to provide a staffing. Your experts, whom you say they are not in the House, are not competent to give an allocation. What does section 15 of the Act say? Read the text! "The Chamber grants an endowment". "The House." It is not said "the Election Expenses Commission within the House". I talked about the context, I talked about the text. I should talk about the pretext, too. Some use the pretext of a contradiction between the context and the text to settle their accounts - this is the case - with certain parties. This is where the scenario becomes quite unpleasant. I'm not Raoul's lawyer. I do not share the ideas of the PTB. I'd even say I'm fighting them. But I want to do so fairly, in accordance with the law, the Electoral Code and the law on the financing of political parties. Colleagues, let's be careful! We are in the collimator of the Council of Europe's bodies. We're being pointed out for our behaviors. This is particularly true when the Assembly has to decide on legal matters such as credentials, the financing of political parties, the lifting of parliamentary immunities, etc. I do not want to play the Cassandres, but I warn you kindly: try nevertheless to preserve the reputation of our country, as well as that of our Parliament. Let us not compromise this reputation for money issues or for political settlement of accounts below the belt. That is to say that I and my group will vote in favour of the appropriations, such as the one to which the PTB is entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour I do not wish to start a polemic about the amounts. However, I would like to mention an element that may not have been reflected enough in Mrs De Coninck's speech in the Half-Round. After all, Mr Delpérée, our Audit Committee did not just say that the PTB was not getting its money. The control committee has not taken a political position, but it has taken a legal position. There are four experts in the Audit Board on electoral expenditure, appointed by all parties together. None of those four experts said that the PTB is entitled to that donation. I think it is worth considering here the reasons for this. Those experts did not say this because of a link to a legal ruling on DéFI. The reason lies on a completely different plane, in particular that the PTB and PVDA offered themselves to the voter in a different way five years ago. The PTB and PVDA did not offer themselves as one party and they did not link in any way. On the contrary, they have even requested other numbers for the electoral lists. In addition, they have made links with other parties to present themselves together to the electorate, including with the BUB in Brussels and in the form of PTB-GO in Wallonia. That is the essence of the story that we have met for four years: they have not presented themselves as one political party. It is not therefore a question of whether a party can assume responsibility in different Länder, because that is, of course, acceptable. For the next elections, there is no problem, since PVDA and PTB have clearly stated that it is one party both in Flanders and in Wallonia. However, this was not the case in the previous elections, which was clearly demonstrated by the fact that they used a different name in both parts of the country, were not linked to each other and were even linked to completely different groups, but not the Dutch-speaking PVDA to the French-speaking PTB. For this reason, the four experts have clearly stated that the PTB is not entitled to the donation. That is why I ask for respect for the views of the experts, respect for our democracy. That is why I ask you not to approve this proposal. That has nothing to do with the PVDA or PTB. They will get that next time, because they have submitted joint lists. They clearly made the link, but they didn't do it five years ago. For the sake of electoral gain, they have concluded coalitions with our groups, because they did not want to be connected to the PVDA and PTB. If they do not follow the political rules correctly, they do not have the right to receive that money. There's no other reason. I have no problem with this or any other party getting the money, but the game needs to be played correctly. That's what our experts said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u150	Mr. President, Mr. Van Biesen said that four experts said that the PTB was not entitled to it. That's not true. Two experts said so and two abstained! So they didn't say anything, neither in one sense nor in the other. You mustn't overwhelm the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u151	Mr President, we are not going to resume the committee's debate, but it is still a fairly unique fact in parliamentary history that a party has had to bring the law before the courts to enforce the law, where it can be expected that the legislative power will guarantee the correct application of the law. After years of procrastination and the absence of a final decision of the commission, which did not act despite repeated requests, despite legal notices, we had no choice but to bring the dispute before the judiciary. To understand some of them, a court decision – even if it is not final – would have only a very relative scope in terms of the expertise of four experts. I would like to be explained why four experts would have more decision-making power than the decision of a judicial authority seized in accordance with its jurisdiction and the law. I confess that this is a paradox that I do not really grasp and that is simply a contempt for the judicial institution. In the wake of what Francis Delperée said, I am also not the lawyer of the PTB. However, we honour ourselves by respecting the rules, including those whose ideas are being fought. Indeed, we are fighting ideas, but not the way a party expresses them. We have shown in committee that to assert that the PTB did not have a national number in the last elections when it could not claim that number, since it did not have an elected member under the previous legislature, is discrimination. To pretend that funding is open only when you have received a national number, that is to say: "Send the time of a legislature, have an elected one, and then you will get a national number for the next legislature." There is no link between the manner in which lists are submitted to elections and party funding. The law does not provide for this. It's an invention to try to justify the unjustifiable. Perhaps it is time for Parliament to honour itself by putting an end to this bad controversy and to fulfil its obligations. Otherwise, one might wonder whether it is still necessary to leave it to a specialized commission to determine under what conditions an endowment finances a party and to think that it is now an independent court that takes care of it. Finally, this would provide guarantees that the policy would not take advantage of an opportunity power instead of applying the law properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are even having a discussion here today about whether the entire Chamber should decide whether or not to allocate funds to the PTB makes it clear that there are still more problems in that law. It is true, I agree with Mr Delpérée, that Article 15 states that the Chamber grants the dot. We have, of course, allocated a delegation to the Audit Committee. We have instructed the Audit Board to take over a number of tasks from us with the help of its experts. But it is true, Article 15 explicitly states: the Chamber grants the dotation. Today there is a new problem, in the sense that the law is not clear here too. It has already been shown that the law is not clear. My fellow Members have already mentioned this. We knew from the first day of this legislature that the law was not clear. Those who have to decide in the end are therefore now unclear. The experts made a number of statements, and there was no consensus among the experts. But I will join Mr De Coninck when she says that the GRECO has said that it cannot be Parliament itself that can decide on its own resources. Because the law is not clear enough, we are currently doing something that cannot be done. But it's true. To those Members who are still sitting here next legislative period or to those who may still be interested, because it has not yet been done, we still have a sitting in three weeks, there is also a need to clarify that Article 15. With regard to our position on whether or not PTB should receive these additional resources, I have been very clear both when I was a member of the N-VA Group and now. I have expressed my position on several occasions in that Audit Committee. We were also the only group that immediately tabled a proposal for an interpretative law, which we believe is the only possible solution. The question is, of course, how to interpret that law. We believe PTB and PVDA were two different parties. They have come up under different names, and I share Mr Van Biesen's opinion there. It was PTB, PTB-GO! and PVDA-Plus. They also had a different serial number. If the rules are applied, there can be no variable amount for the Flemish votes, since there is no elected person in the Flemish Region or in the Flemish Community, whatever description one wants to choose. There is still a choice, whether to appear in every constituency of a region or in every constituency of a Community. In 2014, PTB/PVDA was not one party. The way you are now moving to the voter is another fact. In 2014, things were different. It is not at the time when we are elected that we have to look at the situation, not what it is like afterwards. That is why we have always asked to make it clear. I heard Mr Delpérée on his interpretation of the law, but that is just as much an interpretation as the interpretation that we and a number of other parties give to it. That is why we have said from the outset that it is very important that this should be clarified and that it would be a good thing that the interpretative law should be adopted so that there would be clarity. I think that Mr Hedebouw was present in committee when I asked for that to be approved and for a final definition of how that should be interpreted, in such a way that it is clear for all the parties present here and for all the possible new parties who may also be given representatives in this semi-round. I therefore call on all colleagues to approve the interpretative law, knowing that it is retroactive. That is the difference with the proposal of the colleagues of the N-VA. We therefore agree with the decisions taken in the Audit Committee regarding the appeal against the judgment in respect of the means of Défi. We support that. I would like to ask you something, Mr President. It must be the case that the lawyer representing the Chamber defends Parliament's position, namely that a majority in the Audit Committee has said that it does not agree. Then it is not possible for the lawyer who represents us there to comply with the wisdom of the judge, as was done at first instance. I hope that will happen in this way, because if a majority decides something here and we order the lawyer to defend us in court, then I also expect that lawyer to represent the majority of the Audit Board there too and not just to accept the wisdom of the judge. We will certainly support the motion so that all the recommendations made by the Audit Board will be implemented. For the sake of clarity, we will not allocate the increase in resources to the parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u153	Colleagues, this is really amazing. Four and a half years later, we are still busy debating whether two or three smaller parties can receive their full staffing. I almost found it laughable when the N-VA started talking about taxpayers' money. Are they not ashamed? They have 13 million a year in the pocket.37 million! Now you're going to say here that small parties are taking away the money. You don't feel that this argument is going to work, do you? You feel the same way about your constituents, such arrogance at the N-VA, don't you? We shall, however, analyse the dossier in just the same depth. Colleagues, in order to have a staffing, we need two things. On the one hand, to be a political party recognized as such. On the other hand, a calculation of staffing is required. To be recognized as a political party is to present complete lists in a borough, in a community. That's enough, according to the definition. This is what the PTB did in 2014, in both. I don't think there's too much discussion about whether or not we're recognized as a political party. The second condition is to have elected officials. One elected, more particularly. That's what we got in 2014. The two conditions are therefore met in order to be eligible for staffing. The second debate is to determine the height of this allocation, its variable part and its fixed part. I remind you of the facts. The first point is that this committee has recognized us as a national party to expenditure. When a decision had to be taken on the limit of EUR 1 million, the committee said that all expenditure by the Labour Party All expenses of the PTB that are made in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia are considered to come from a single party. Now, some parties, the Open Vld and the N-VA, say that when we get back, we change the rules. That's a little weird. For spending, we're recognized as a party, but when we get back, we're divided. Smells a little bit like what we say at home. But it doesn't matter. Isn't that it??. We're gonna try to deconstruct things one by one to try to convince some recalcitrants. I would already like to thank all the democrats in committee who have supported us in this area. It's important and I wanted to say it. But I am speaking here, of course, to the Open Vld and the N-VA, in an attempt to convince them. I don't have a lot of illusions. The question arises technically in the electoral law. How can a party recognize that other lists, filed in other boroughs, are its own lists? For national lists, it's very simple. A logo and a name are recognized. There's also a national number. But how do we deal with parties that do not yet have these elements? How do we recognize these parties? This is where the Chamber's legal services did a very thorough study. We cannot start from the principle of already recognised acronyms, since they do not yet have them. Then let's start from the facts! Let's start with the facts. Two colleagues here dared to say that the PTB and the PVDA are not the same party. Are you serious? We are one of the last parties in Belgium with a chairman. A spokesperson. I don't speak here for Walloon workers. I'm here for my Flemish, Brussels, Walloon voters. I'm talking for everyone. I'm not only a representative of the PTB, I'm also a representative of the PVDA. We have a seat. We have an ASBL 22 that receives this endowment. So, we're a party. I can understand that for some parties, it's impossible to understand, but we're like the Red Devils. You can't say there's a team on one side and one on the other. We're one party.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u154	Mr Hedebouw, I have a short, simple question. You have now requested and received a list number. If you are a national party, why don't you come up with the same name everywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u155	This is becoming more and more ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u156	And why do you have in 2014 (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u157	What are you doing? Let me answer politically and then technically. The idea itself that we translate our name "Parti du Travail de Belgique" is obvious, out of respect for the electorate! Technical exceptions are already provided for parties running in the German-speaking Community, for example. Of course! That's the voter's respect. Isn't it obvious that we're translating our name? Now use this as an argument to try to prove that we are two different parties.... It is precisely because we are one party that we translate our name. Last argument, Mr Van Biesen said in committee that our number is not the same. Technically, we couldn't get the same number. That's total discrimination. We asked for a national number, but we could not get it because we had no national elected representatives. What are you doing? You are now using the argument that we have been discriminated against as a smaller party, but we could not technically get it. Are we going to use such arguments to prove that we are different parties? That's really not serious. Another argument, I come, for the little anecdote, to the letters used, PTB-PvdA. Then I'll go back to the pseudo-cartels and company. As you know, it's PTB-Go on the French side in Wallonia, PvdA+ in Flanders, but in Brussels our list was called PTB-PvdA-Go. And these voices were recognized for varying endowments. Why is it said that this translation does not go? But for the Brussels votes, that is another argument for the garbage can. Your arguments just don't make any sense. This is just a political game. I'm moving on. Other arguments have been put forward. Mrs De Coninck pointed out in committee that during the 1989 preparatory committee discussions - I do not think the services of the N-VA have done a good job - it was said that the condition... Mrs De Coninck, may I have your attention for a moment because this is important? The study department told me that one condition was that there would be two elected representatives. You said that this was in black and white in the reports of the Preparatory Committee on the 1989 Act. Well, we went to see what was in those reports. You're way off base. I don't know if it's lying or just incompetence. I read out what was said in committee. On page 21 it says: "This does not mean that a national structured party would be excluded from funding. It could even claim double funding if it had at least two directly elected members in both chambers." That is, in both chambers one elected in both language groups. You're beginning to understand that you were just sitting next to the issue. This commission says, in short, that a national party could have two endowments if it had one elected on each linguistic side, but the N-VA transforms this by saying that the condition for having the variable endowment is to have one on each side. It's pure lie. It doesn't hold up the road. Those arguments are worthless. Let's move on. I'm coming to the Arbitration Court. What did Mrs De Coninck, or the services of the N-VA, say in committee? I quote Mrs De Coninck: 'It is not illegal to make the funding of political parties dependent on a certain level of representativeness. In this case, the Arbitration Court ruled on a difference in support to parties, with or without elected representatives." So you say that the Constitutional Court has held that having or not having an elected person is a criterion in deciding whether or not to get a dot. We fully agree with that! We have an elected one, and that's why we're getting a dotation. The Constitutional Court has never held that one should have one elected in another Community. These are just lies. Good thing we all checked this out, Mrs De Coninck, because it's intellectually just unfair. I wonder where the services of the N-VA are getting such lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u158	Mr President, I will not go down to the tone of Mr Hedebouw and talk about lies. Mr Hedebouw, you must remain correct and you must read the laws in the right chronology. The amounts have changed since the sixth state reform. You put the cart in front of the horse and quote from older changes. In doing so, you are pretending that the sixth state reform did not change those amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u159	I took the two dates you mentioned in committee. You brought this up, and I just checked this out. It just doesn't make any sense. Then I come to the third argument: a cartel. Technically, we didn't do a cartel with the BUB. It was a technical agreement at the level of the Brussels-Capital Region. I've already answered a few times. Politically, the GO! Wasn't even a cartel either. I will read out the Chamber's vademecum here and give you what the vademecum determines about cartels in case there was a cartel. PTB-GO! Isn't a cartel. It was independents, intellectuals and various parties who called for us to vote. It wasn't a cartel at all. What if it was a cartel? I'll read the vademecum to you on the subject. On cartel lists, page 15 of the vademecum is attached to the Committee: "The different political parties built their own identity and, if they fulfil the conditions, received separate contributions under Article 15 of the Law of 4 July 1989. They merely forged an alliance with a view to the elections. The electoral expenditure on the cartel list will therefore have to be charged at the maximum amount to which the parties concerned are individually attached. They will have to determine among themselves, in advance of proportionality, a distribution key according to which the expenditure incurred by the cartel list..." CD&V and the N-VA may have known it before, but the cartel affair must also be technically correct. When a cartel list is filed, there must be agreements that determine who gets what amount after the elections. The Office's vademecum also provides that these are to be annexed to the declaration of electoral expenditure to the President of the Office of the Elections. Colleagues, we didn't report anything to the election bureau because we weren't cartels either. So it's just written in black and white. We were obviously not in a cartel and Mr Van Biesen's argument is not on the way. Ladies and gentlemen, I think all the arguments have been put forward. In this case, there are two political aspects that intersect. First, there is some arrogance on the part of the right-wing parties to reach out to the smallest parties. That's obvious. You already have so much money but you fear that a small left party will grow in Flanders. Secondly, the political point is that we are still national parties, which will effectively campaign everywhere in Belgium and do not deal with borders. I would remind you that even though there have been reforms of the state, it is still allowed to be a national party, to campaign everywhere and to value these voices politically and for the endowment. Of course, these Flemish voices, which will grow ever larger, are all from people who voted for the programme of the Labour Party and the party of Peter Mertens, with as spokesperson Raoul Hedebouw. We are all in the same buildings together, with the same program, with the same statutes. With one party we campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of principle in terms of democracy vis-à-vis small parties, but it is also a democratic principle around the right of a national party to stand up and get the dot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for more than four years the Committee on Electoral Expenses has been looking into this matter. For more than four years, you have ignored the voices of voters who have chosen to give their vote to DéFI, the PTB or the People's Party. Some political parties have decided to block some of the financing of smaller parties for purely electoral or even community reasons. There has never been more talk of democracy than in this legislature. Referendum, popular consultation, citizen participation have been mentioned for months. But DéFI had to take legal action to win the case because this Parliament, the temple of democracy, did not respect a fundamental right. It's grieving. Notwithstanding this court decision, you are still perplexed and you remain poached on your initial positions. This is totally unacceptable for legislators. Should we also be against the State in court? What an image for our citizens! Moreover, you who boast of the principle of equality, will you respect it or violate it? The Rules of Procedure of this Chamber already differentiate parties forming groups from others in terms of internal functioning. An elector of the People's Party is already not equal to an elector of a five-member party. What an antinomy with your words about democracy! However, the case of the People's Party is quite similar to that of DéFI – FDF at the time of the last elections – since we also ran under the same name everywhere in Belgium. The list number was indeed different because the law prohibited us from having the same number everywhere because at the time we had no federal elected representative. I therefore believe that it is time to reconsider your position in order to make a correct sense of the word democracy. Colleagues, you have not already been able to complete this Parliament with a majority. Try to finish it with dignity!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u162	Mr President, first of all, I would like to correct a misunderstanding, in particular that we would miss out on PVDA or PTB money. The opposite is true. I will tell you that, as far as I am concerned, you cannot get enough subsidies. We even hope that you will use it very fruitfully in the campaign, because it will not cost the N-VA but other parties. I therefore wish you every success in the use of these resources. But, of course, we have the opinion of the experts we wish to adhere to. However, should the PTB motion get a majority, I shall now table an amendment to this motion. I shall read out that amendment: 'The funds allocated in implementation of this motion will be deducted from the contributions of the other groups in proportion to the amounts allocated in the current scheme.' It is our conviction that if the Court considers that these funds should be allocated, the other parties should bear the costs, not the taxpayer. I am tabling this amendment now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u163	Three motions were tabled to wind up the debate on the report by the Audit Board on the donations to certain political parties. A first motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Luk Van Biesen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having read the report by Mr Siegfried Bracke, on behalf of the Audit Board, on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties; - having regard to the fact that 4 experts have been added to this Audit Committee on repeated questions from the GRECO. This responds to the criticism of the GRECO, which considered that the Audit Board "has insufficient safeguards to ensure, as far as possible, the independence and reputation of the monitoring apparatus against any uninvited external influence." The GRECO called for "a system for monitoring the funding of the parties and the election campaigns that are as independent as possible from political parties"; - having regard to the fact that the experts are not part of the plenary session, but have been designated by the legislator as full members of the Audit Board; - having read in this report that none of the 4 experts voted in favour of the donations, two experts voted against and two experts abstained; - having regard to the importance of the voice of the independent experts in this dossier and the importance of the addition of experts as political independents in this dossier; Agreed with recommendations 1 to 3 of the Audit Board as mentioned on page 66 of the report. A first motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck and Mr. Luk Van Biesen and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having read the report made by Mr Siegfried Bracke on behalf of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and Political Party Accounting; - in view of the fact that the Monitoring Committee has joined the services of four experts in response to GRECO's repeated requests in this regard; and thus in response to GRECO's criticism that the Monitoring Committee "does not, by its very nature, provide sufficient safeguards to ensure, as far as possible, the independence and reputation of the control mechanism with regard to any undue external influence", GRECO having asked to "establish a system of control over the financing of political parties and electoral campaigns which is as independent as possible of political parties"; - since the experts do not sit in plenary session but the legislator has appointed them as full members of the supervisory committee; - having read in this report that none of the 4 experts spoke in favour of the allocations, with 2 experts voting against and 2 experts abstaining; - in view of the importance of the voice of the independent experts in this matter and in view of the importance of the addition of experts as politically independent persons in this matter, Approves recommendations 1 to 3 of the Monitoring Committee as mentioned on page 66 of the report." A second motion was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having regard to the report of the Audit Board on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties on "the donations to certain political parties" (No 3703/1), - having regard to the detailed reasoned opinion of the Court's legal services, which states that the PVDA is entitled to a dotation in which the votes obtained by the PVDA must be taken into account throughout the country for the determination of the amount; - having regard to the fact that the result of the vote in the Audit Committee is not representative of the composition of the Chamber of Representatives; - having regard to the decisive vote of two politically appointed experts, - having regard to the law on the financing of political parties of 4 July 1989, which expressly states that the Chamber of Representatives grants the funding to the political parties; - having regard to the fact that the PVDA is nothing other than the PTB, and vice versa, with letters referring in two country languages to the same party with a single head office, a single head office, a single programme, a single study service, one accounting, etc.; - having regard to the fact that the amount for the payment of the full amount to the PVDA has already been entered in the budget of the Chamber in recent years; - having regard to the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance in the case of DéFI in a case similar to that of the PVDA; - having regard to the precedents in the past (see annexes to the Audit Committee report); 1 rejects the recommendation of the Audit Board; 2 acknowledges that the PVDA is entitled to a variable amount calculated on the basis of its votes throughout the country and grants the amount due since the beginning of the legislature." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Messrs. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees and read as follows: "The Chamber, - having regard to the report of the Committee on the Control of Election Expenses and Accounting of Political Parties on "the endowments to certain political parties" (No. 3703/01); - having regard to the reasoned opinion given in detail by the Chamber's legal services, according to which the PTB is entitled to an allocation for which the votes obtained by the PTB throughout the country must be taken into account for the determination of the allocation; - in view of the fact that the result of the vote in the supervisory committee is not representative of the composition of the House of Representatives; - having regard to the decisive voice of two politically appointed experts; - having regard to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties of 4 July 1989, which expressly provides that the allocation shall be granted to political parties by the House of Representatives; - since the PTB is nothing other than the PVDA and vice versa, these acronyms refer, in both languages of the country, to the same party with a single leadership, a single headquarters, a single programme, a single study service, a single accountancy, etc.; - since the amount corresponding to the allocation of the full allocation to the PTB has already been included in the House's budget in previous years; - having regard to the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance in question DéFI in a case similar to that of the PTB; - having regard to the precedents (see annexes to the report of the Monitoring Committee); 1 rejects the recommendation of the Monitoring Committee; 2 recognizes that the PTB is entitled to a variable allocation calculated on the basis of the votes obtained throughout the country and grants the allocation still due since the beginning of the legislature." On this motion there is an amendment by Mr De Roover, as he has just read out. A third motion was tabled by Mr Aldo Carcaci and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having regard to the report on behalf of the Audit Board on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties (No 3703/1), - having regard to the reasoned opinion of the Court's Legal Service; - having regard to the fact that the outcome of the vote in the Audit Committee on electoral expenditure and the accounting of the political parties is not representative; - having regard to the influence on the vote of two politically appointed experts with a political colour; - having regard to the fact that, in accordance with the law of 4 July 1989, it is the Chamber, and not the Audit Board, of the electoral expenditure and the accounts of the political parties, which grants the grant; - having regard to the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance in the case brought by DéFI; 1.Rejectes the recommendation of the Audit Board; 2. decides to grant the Parti Populaire a dot calculated on the basis of the total number of votes obtained throughout the country, since the beginning of the legislature." A third motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Aldo Carcaci and reads as follows: "The Chamber, - having regard to the report of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and Accounting of Political Parties (No. 3703/01); - having regard to the reasoned opinion of the Chamber's Legal Service; - since the result of voting in the election expenditure control committee and the accounting of political parties is not representative; - in view of the influence of the vote of two experts appointed politically and politically oriented; - since, according to the Act of 4 July 1989, it is the Chamber which grants the allocation and not the Commission for the control of election expenses and the accounting of political parties; - having regard to the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance in the case brought by DéFI; 1 rejects the recommendation of the Monitoring Committee; 2 decides to grant the People's Party an allocation calculated on the basis of all the votes collected throughout the country, since the beginning of the legislature." The vote on the motions and the amendment will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions and the amendment will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u164	Mr. Chairman, do we agree that if there is a vote to reject the motion tabled by the N-VA, for example, since the N-VA motion is intended to confirm the Commission's recommendations and since you have asked for the Commission's opinion as to what should be your attitude to appeal or not, that means that there will be no appeal for us, and that there will also be staffing for the PTB?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u165	On the first point, that is correct, there will be no appeal if the motion of Ms. De Coninck and Mr. Van Biesen is rejected. However, with respect to the staffing of the PTB and PP, the second and third motions must be voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u166	Mr. Speaker, a colleague suggested that budgets were not included in the House's budget. Could you tell him, as Speaker of the House, that this is obviously not true and that the budgets have been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u167	It's mixed: it wasn't requested, but it was available. That is what has always been said in the Management Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u168	These motions were tabled in the plenary session of 4 April 2019. These motions were tabled in plenary on April 4, 2019. Three motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Luk Van Biesen. A second motion was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees. - a third motion was tabled by Mr Aldo Carcaci. Three motions were tabled in the following chronological order: - a first motion was tabled by Ms. Inez De Coninck and Mr. Luk Van Biesen. - a second motion was tabled by Messrs. Raoul Hedebouw et Marco Van Hees. - A third motion was tabled by Mr. Aldo Carcaci. I propose that you vote on the motions in the chronological order of referral. I propose that you vote on the motions in chronological order of their tabling. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? I put to the vote the motion by Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Luk Van Biesen. I put to the vote the motion of Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Luk Van Biesen. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[45]] Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 137 Total The motion has been rejected. I believe that the House can still take a decision on the other motions. The motion was defeated. I am of the view that the House can still rule on the other motions. Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? ( Non ) We are voting on Mr De Roover's amendment to the second motion by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees. I shall read the amendment again: 'The funds allocated in implementation of this motion will be deducted from the contributions of the other groups in proportion to the amounts allocated today in the current regulation. Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 32 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was rejected. The amendment was rejected. I put to the vote the motion by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees. I put to the vote the motion of Messrs. Raoul Hedebouw et Marco Van Hees. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 58 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 137 Total Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? ( Non ) The motion has been passed. The motion was adopted. I put Mr Aldo Carcaci's motion to the vote. I put to the vote Mr Aldo Carcaci's motion. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for an explanation of vote? [[No]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check his voice? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 48 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? ( Non ) The motion has been rejected. The motion was defeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u169	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the members of the data protection authority's knowledge centre. The next item is the election for the appointment of the members of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. The knowledge centre is composed of six members and the director of the knowledge centre. The Knowledge Centre is composed of six members and the Director of the Knowledge Centre. There are as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members of the knowledge centre. There are as many members of the French-speaking Knowledge Centre as there are Dutch-speaking expression. A maximum of two thirds of the members of the knowledge centre shall be of the same sex. A maximum of two thirds of the members of the knowledge centre are of the same sex. The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (3676/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (3676/1) The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u170	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u171	The Government requested urgent treatment under Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 21 December 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the Joint Community Committee and the German-speaking Community on the involvement of the Federal State in the signing of the Cooperation Agreements of 6 September 2017 and 30 May 2018, No. 3679/1. The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 21 December 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the Joint Community Commission and the German-speaking Community on the involvement of the Federal State in the signing of the Cooperation Agreements of 6 September 2017 and 30 May 2018, No 3679/1. The government will motivate the urgency. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government requests that the draft law approving the cooperation agreement of 21 December 2018 be dealt with as a matter of urgency. These cooperation agreements are linked to the implementation of the sixth state reform on the family annex. This cooperation agreement of 21 December 2018 involves the federal authority as a party for the creation of an inter-regional body for family allowances and the exchange of data between federated entities. The Federal Authority is required to participate in the above-mentioned cooperation agreements following an opinion of the Council of State and the fact that the Joint Community Commission takes over responsibility for family allowances on 1 January 2020. The urgency is justified by the fact that the Walloon Region, the Flemish Community and the German-speaking Community took over the payment of family benefits on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u173	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u174	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the subsidy of the Hindu Forum of Belgium, No. 3704/1. - the bill (Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the Buddhist Union of Belgium, the delegates and the institutions responsible for managing the material and financial interests of the recognized Buddhist communities, No. 3705/1. - the draft law (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) inserting book 5.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3709/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u175	- the legislative proposal (Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees) amending the law on compulsory medical care insurance and benefits, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with a view to introducing free general practitioner consultation, No. 3706/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u176	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Els Van Hoof) on the subsidisation of the Hindou Forum of Belgium, No. 3704/1. - the draft law (Ms. Els Van Hoof) on the Belgian Buddhist Union, delegates and institutions responsible for managing the material and financial interests of recognized Buddhist communities, No. 3705/1. - the bill (Mrs. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) inserting Book 5; obligations in the new Civil Code, No. 3709/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u177	- the bill (MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees) amending the Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance Act, coordinated on 14 July 1994, with a view to introducing free consultations with the general practitioner, No. 3706/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u178	I also suggest that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Sandrine De Crom) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in respect of certain categories of workers, 3710/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u179	- the bill (Mr Dirk Van Mechelen cs) amending Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at those rates, 3711/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u180	- the bill (Mr David Clarinval) implementing the interprofessional agreement 2019-2020, No. 3712/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u181	I suggest that you also take into account: - the draft law (Ms. Katja Gabriëls and Sandrine De Crom) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of certain categories of workers, No 3710/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u182	- the proposal for a law (Mr Dirk Van Mechelen et al.) amending Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to these rates, No 3711/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u183	- the proposal for a law (Mr David Clarinval) implementing the Interprofessional Agreement 201-2020, No 3712/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u184	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u185	Mr President, I ask for the urgency of a text to be taken into account today. This is document No 3712 on the interprofessional agreement, which I will not describe, since everyone knows it. It is obviously urgent to be able to discuss it. Moreover, the Committee on Social Affairs is due to meet tomorrow, while the Committee on the Economy is due to meet in the near future. I therefore hope that we will vote urgently for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I support this proposal. A Commission on the Economy was held at the end of the afternoon. We are concerned by seven articles on the pensions of the self-employed. Several groups requested that we meet the week after Easter. I don't have a problem with that a priori. I therefore support the urgent request, but it goes without saying that the groups that have asked for a stay at tomorrow's meeting also make a moral commitment not to ask for a second reading, because it would not be a very correct game. In short, without second reading, we can grant the request for urgency. If necessary, the Economic Committee would meet on the morning of Wednesday, 24 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Delizée has just said. If we approve this, it implies that we commit ourselves not to ask for a second reading in the week after Easter. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u188	Mr President, as a result of this morning's debate, we have withdrawn our amendment on the sterilisation of cats. Instead, I and Mr Van Mechelen and other colleagues have written and submitted a proposal for a directive on VAT on the sterilisation of cats at the plenary session, document No. 3711/1. We are asking for urgency on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u189	We shall first vote on the question of urgency for document No. 3711. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u190	We shall then vote on the question of urgency for legislative proposal No. 3712 implementing the interprofessional agreement. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u191	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 77 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 60 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u192	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an article 2/1(n). (3135/6) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees cs to insert an Article 2/1(n). (3135/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[37]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u193	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 106 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u194	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u195	Amendment No. One of Mrs Almaci's has been withdrawn. So we do not have to vote on it. So we shall be voting on the legislative proposal immediately, as called for just now. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? MM. Daerden and Chabot voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u196	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u197	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u198	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[80]] Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr Dallemagne voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u199	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 7. (3560/7) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 7. (3560/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 57 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 9. (3560/7) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 9. (3560/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u200	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs on article 11. (3560/7) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Stefaan Van Hecke cs to Article 11. (3560/7) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u201	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Ahmed Laaouej to insert an Article 27(n). (3560/7) Vote on Amendment No. 10 by Ahmed Laaouej to insert an Article 27(n). (3560/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 57 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 136 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 57 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u203	Mr. Maingain and Ms. Caprasse voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u205	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u206	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u207	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u208	Mr President, I am only speaking to say that I have been waiting for this vote for 20 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u209	What about your ex-wife? [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u210	No other explanations of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Van Peteghem voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u211	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 106 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u213	Vote on Amendment No 63 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an article 3/1(n). (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an Article 3/1(n). (3327/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 56 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 64 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 18. (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 64 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Article 18. (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u214	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 65 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an article 26/1(n). (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 65 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an Article 26/1(n). (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u215	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 66 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 29. (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Article 29. (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u216	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 29 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 61 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an article 30/1(n). (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Stefaan Van Hecke to insert an Article 30/1(n). (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u217	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 67 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 31. (3327/10) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Rule 31. (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u218	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 62 by Stefaan Van Hecke on article 32. (3327/10) Vote on amendment No 62 by Stefaan Van Hecke to Article 32. (3327/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u219	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 32 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 32 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u220	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 78 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 58 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u221	Mrs Cassart-Mailleux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u225	Mrs Özen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u226	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be forwarded as a bill to the Senate. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u227	Vote on Amendment No 37 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3584/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes [[26]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u228	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 42 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 42 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u229	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u230	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 40 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 6. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 40 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 6. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u231	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 41 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 8. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 8. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u232	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 12. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 12. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u233	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Karin Temmerman cs on article 12. (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Karin Temmerman cs to Article 12. (3584/6) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u234	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an article 12/1(n). (3584/6) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Karin Temmerman cs to insert an Article 12/1(n). (3584/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes [[15]] Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 45 Abstensions Total 137 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 90 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 32) Yes 106 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 31 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u238	Mrs Bellens has voted like her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u239	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 33) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u241	Mr President, I would like to point out that both this and the other resolution will be abstained from our group because it has been abstaining from resolutions since the fall of the government. That has no meaning with regard to the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u242	No other explanations of vote? [[No, no, ……]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 34) Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 33 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mrs Almaci voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u244	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u245	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 37) Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u246	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 38) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 39) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u248	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 40) Yes 124 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]] Ms Lanjri and Messrs. Chabot, Devin and Kir voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 41) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 42) Yes [[114]] Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 43) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 44) Yes 112 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstinence? [[)]] Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u253	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 45) Yes 127 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u254	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 46) Yes 103 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 32 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u255	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u256	Yes 77 Yes No. 59 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 3042/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 3042/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u257	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 48) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 49) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft. Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a draft for Royal Assent. Mr Flahaux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u259	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 50) Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mr Lutgen voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u260	Votes 130 Votants Blank or invalid 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... White or invalid Valid 127 Valables Perfect majority 64 Absolute majority Mr Christophe Boeraeve (F) received one vote. Mr. Christophe Boeraeve (F) obtained 1 vote. Mr Dirk De Bot (N) received 39 votes. M. Dirk De Bot (N) a obtenu 39 voix. Mr Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye (F) received 112 votes. Mr. Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye (F) obtained 112 votes. Mr Frank De Smet (N) received 46 votes. M. Frank De Smet (N) a obtenu 46 voix. Mr Koen Gorissen (N) received 0 votes. M. Koen Gorissen (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Joëlle Jouret (F) received 126 votes. Ms. Joëlle Jouret (F) obtained 126 votes. Mrs Els Kindt (N) received 43 votes in favour. Ms. Els Kindt (N) received 43 votes. Mr Alain Loute (F) received two votes. Mr. Alain Loute (F) obtained 2 votes. Mr Jo Pierson (N) received 0 votes. Mr. Jo Pierson (N) obtained 0 votes. Mr Frank Ponsaert (N) received 0 votes. Mr. Frank Ponsaert (N) obtained 0 votes. Mr Bart Preneel (N) received 78 votes. M. Bart Preneel (N) a obtenu 78 voix. Mr Frank Robben (N) received 69 votes. M. Frank Robben (N) a obtenu 69 voix. Mr Romain Robert (F) received 53 votes. Mr. Romain Robert (F) obtained 53 votes. Mr Frank Schuermans (N) received 13 votes. Mr. Frank Schuermans (N) obtained 13 votes. Mrs Aurélie Van der Perre (F) received 15 votes. Ms. Aurélie Van der Perre (F) obtained 15 votes. Mr Serge Vermeir (N) received 0 votes. Mr. Serge Vermeir (N) obtained 0 votes. Mr Gert Vermeulen (N) received 13 votes. Mr. Gert Vermeulen (N) obtained 13 votes. Mrs An Vijverman (N) received 0 votes. Mme An Vijverman (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Nicolas Waeyaert (N) received 72 votes. Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert (N) obtained 72 votes. Mrs Séverine Waterbley (F) received 75 votes. Ms. Séverine Waterbley (F) received 75 votes. Mr Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, who received the absolute majority, has been appointed to the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mrs Joëlle Jouret, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed as a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Ms Joëlle Jouret, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr Bart Preneel, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr. Bart Preneel, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr Frank Robben, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr. Frank Robben, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr Nicolas Waeyaert, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mr. Nicolas Waeyaert, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Mrs Séverine Waterbley, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed as a member of the knowledge centre of the Data Protection Authority. Ms. Severine Waterbley, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared a member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u261	Vote on Subamendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 1 by Patrick Dewael. Vote on sub-amendment No. 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Onkelinx to Amendment No 19 by Laurette Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 51) Yes 61 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 1 by Patrick Dewael tends to add an introductory provision to the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Patrick Dewael to add an introductory provision to the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 52) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 1 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 1 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 53) Yes 61 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the proposed declaration of revision of article 1 of the Constitution is rejected. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 1 of the Constitution has been rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 7a of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 7a of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 54) Yes 134 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 7bis of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 7a of the Constitution has been adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise the title of Title II of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise the heading of Title II of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 55) Yes 112 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposed declaration of revision of the title of Title II of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise the heading of Title II of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to security. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article to ensure the right to security. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 56) Yes 105 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to security. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a new article to ensure the right to security, has been adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article allowing the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article in order to ensure the enjoyment of rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 57) Yes 135 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Mr Miller voted in favour. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article allowing the enjoyment of the rights and freedoms of persons with disabilities. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to introduce a new article, in order to ensure the enjoyment of rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities, has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article extending the access and guarantee of the rights provided for in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article extending access to, and safeguarding, the rights enshrined in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 58) Yes [[115]] Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article which extends the access and guarantee of the rights provided for in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State. Consequently, the proposal to amend Title II of the Constitution to include a new article extending access to and safeguarding the rights enshrined in the Constitution to all persons under the jurisdiction of the Belgian State has been adopted. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting new articles containing the rights already recognized in the European and international conventions which are binding in Belgium. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution to include new articles incorporating the rights already recognised in the European and international treaties binding on Belgium. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 59) Yes 135 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it new articles containing the rights already recognized in European and international conventions which are binding in Belgium. Consequently, the proposal to amend Title II of the Constitution to include new articles incorporating the rights already recognised in the European and international treaties binding on Belgium has been adopted. Vote on amendment No. 9 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to remove the words "the right to life and" from the declaration to insert a new article in Title II of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to delete the words "the right to life as well as" from the declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article ensuring the prohibition of torture and slavery. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 60) Yes 48 Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u262	You have before you the justification for the amendment. We consider that the protection of the rights of the European Convention on Human Rights is already enshrined in various provisions opening for revision of the Constitution. Therefore, the amendment that we have submitted to you and which is rejected was intended to make it clear that the preconstituent's intention with regard to the PS group is not to call into question the acquired rights linked to the right to dispose of his own body. I am thinking in particular of the right to a voluntary termination of pregnancy, but also of the rights that accompany the end of life, in particular euthanasia. That is why there must be no ambiguity as to the interpretation of the positive vote on the proposed text. Clearly, in our mind, and this is the affirmation that I renew to this microphone, to this rostrum and to this chamber, it cannot be a question of questioning the voluntary termination of pregnancy and the rights at the end of life such as euthanasia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u263	Thank you, Mr. Laaouej. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to life and the prohibition of torture and slavery. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to introduce a new article guaranteeing the right to life as well as the prohibition of torture and slavery. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 61) Yes [[115]] Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Mr Chabot voted in favour. Accordingly, the Chamber adopted the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing the right to life and the prohibition of torture and slavery. Consequently, the proposal to amend Title II of the Constitution to introduce a new article guaranteeing the right to life as well as the prohibition of torture and slavery was adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article fully guaranteeing the right to a fair trial. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article that fully guarantees the right to a fair trial. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article fully guaranteeing the right to a fair trial. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a new article guaranteeing the full right to a fair trial, was adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to introduce a new article guaranteeing freedom of movement, has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognised in Title II in accordance with the international and European treaties for the protection of fundamental rights ratified by Belgium. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognised by Title II in accordance with the international and European conventions for the protection of fundamental rights ratified by Belgium. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognized in Title II in accordance with the international and European treaties for the protection of fundamental rights, ratified by Belgium. Consequently, the proposal to amend Title II of the Constitution to insert a new article on the interpretation to be given to the rights recognised by Title II in accordance with the international and European conventions for the protection of fundamental rights ratified by Belgium has been adopted. Vote on the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article aimed at establishing that the interpretation of the Constitution cannot be aimed at the destruction of rights and freedoms. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a new article which establishes that the interpretation of the Constitution should not aim to destroy rights and freedoms. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article aimed at enshrining that the interpretation of the Constitution cannot be aimed at the destruction of rights and freedoms. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a new article which establishes that the interpretation of the Constitution should not aim at destroying rights and freedoms, has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article on the guarantee of the rights recognized by Title II. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article on safeguarding the rights recognised by Title II. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a new article on the guarantee of the rights recognized in Title II. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to insert a new article concerning the safeguarding of rights recognised by Title II, has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the conditions to be met by restrictions on the rights recognized in Title II, provided that the provisions of that title do not provide otherwise. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution in order to insert a new article on the conditions to be met by the restrictions imposed on the rights recognised by Title II, provided that the provisions of this Title do not otherwise have them. Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]] (Voting/vote 61) Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting in it a new article on the conditions to be met by restrictions on the rights recognized in Title II, provided that the provisions of that title do not provide otherwise. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Title II of the Constitution, in order to introduce a new article on the conditions to be met by the restrictions imposed on the rights recognised by Title II, in so far as the provisions of this Title do not otherwise have them, has been adopted. Vote on amendment No. 8 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to add a new article to Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a provision on the prohibition of liberticide parties. Vote on Amendment No 8 of Laurette Onkelinx cs to add a new article in Title II of the Constitution, with a view to inserting a provision on the prohibition of freedom-destructive parties. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 62) Yes 31 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 10 by Georges Gilkinet cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 8, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Georges Gilkinet to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 8 (3) and (4) of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 63) Yes [[46]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Mr Corthouts voted in favour. Mrs Demir voted against. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 10 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 10 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 64) Yes 116 Yes No. [[22]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 10 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 10 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 11 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 65) Yes 103 Yes No. [[35]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Article 11 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 11a of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11a of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 66) Yes 86 Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 136 Total Mr Beke voted in favour. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Article 11bis of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 11a of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 12 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 12 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 67) Yes 87 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 12 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 12 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 19 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 19 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 68) Yes 89 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 136 Total Mrs de Coster-Bauchau and Mrs Galant voted against. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 19 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 19 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 20 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 20 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 69) Yes 75 Yes No. [[47]] No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 20 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 20 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 21 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 21 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 70) Yes 125 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 21 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 21 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 21 of the Constitution with a view to adding a paragraph aimed at extending the protection granted to ministers of religions to delegates of organizations recognized by law who offer moral assistance in a non-denominational philosophical way, as referred to in Article 181(2) of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal to amend Article 21 of the Constitution to add a member in order to extend the protection of the servants of worship to delegates of bodies recognised by law that provide moral services on the basis of a non-confessional belief referred to in Article 181 (2) of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 71) Yes 108 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 21 of the Constitution with a view to adding a paragraph aimed at extending the protection granted to ministers of worship to delegates of organizations recognized by law who offer moral assistance according to a non-denominational philosophical concept, as referred to in article 181, § 2, of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal to amend Article 21 of the Constitution to add a member in order to extend the protection of the servants of worship to delegates of bodies recognised by law providing moral services on the basis of a non-confessional conception of life referred to in Article 181 (2) of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 22 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 22 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) Yes 133 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 22 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 22 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 23 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 23 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) Yes 133 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 23 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 23 of the Constitution has been adopted. Mr Flahaux voted in favour. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 23, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, with a view to adding a provision on the citizen's right to a universal service in the field of postal, communication and mobility. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 23 (3) of the Constitution to add a provision on the right of citizens to a universal postal, communication and mobility service. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 72) Yes 133 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 23, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, with a view to adding a provision concerning the citizen's right to a universal service in the field of post, communication and mobility. Consequently, the proposal to amend Article 23 (3) of the Constitution to add a provision on the right of citizens to a universal postal, communication and mobility service was adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 2 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 24, § 1 and § 3 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 24 (1) and (3) of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 73) Yes 96 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 25 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 74) Yes 134 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 25 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution, with a view to adding a paragraph to extend the guarantees of the press to other media. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 25 of the Constitution to add a paragraph to extend the safeguards of the printing press to the other means of information. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u264	Consequently, the Article was adopted. Accordingly, the article was adopted. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 25 of the Constitution, with a view to adding a paragraph to extend the guarantees of the press to other media. Consequently, the proposal to amend Article 25 of the Constitution to add a paragraph to extend the safeguards of the printing press to the other means of information was adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 28 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 28 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u265	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 28 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 28 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 29 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 29 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 75) Yes [[113]] Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 29 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 29 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 39a of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 39a of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 76) Yes 77 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 39bis of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 39a of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 41 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 41 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u266	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 41 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 41 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 43 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 43 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 77) Yes 72 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 43 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 43 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 44 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 44 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u267	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 79) Yes 68 Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber rejects the proposed declaration of revision of article 44 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 44 of the Constitution has been rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 48 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 48 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 80) Yes 132 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 48 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 48 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 11 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 56 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 56 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 81) Yes 76 Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 57 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 57 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 82) Yes 98 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 57 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 57 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 60 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 60 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u268	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 60 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 60 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 61 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 61 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 83) Yes 83 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 61 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 61 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 3 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by the first sentence of Article 62(3) of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by the first sentence of Article 62 (3) of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 84) Yes 44 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 5 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to remove Article 63 from the list of articles of the Constitution which must be declared to be revised and to include Article 63, § 1 to 3. Vote on Amendment No 5 of Laurette Onkelinx cs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 85) Yes 73 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 63 of the Constitution as amended by Amendment No. 5. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 63 of the Constitution as amended by Amendment No 5. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 86) Yes 98 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 63 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 63 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 67 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 67 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 87) Yes 91 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 67 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 67 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of article 68 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 68 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 88) Yes 83 Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 68 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 68 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 69 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 69 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 89) Yes 67 Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber rejects the proposed declaration of revision of article 69 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 69 of the Constitution has been rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 70 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 70 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 90) Yes 92 Yes No. [[45]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 70 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 70 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 71 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 71 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u269	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 71 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 71 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 12 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 73 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 73 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 91) Yes 76 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 75 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 75 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 92) Yes 98 Yes No. [[37]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 75 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 75 of the Constitution has been adopted. Mrs Lanjri has voted like her group. Vote on Amendment No. 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs to remove Article 99 from the list of articles of the Constitution which must be declared to be revised and included in the first paragraph of Article 99 with a view to imposing parity between women and men in the federal government. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Laurette Onkelinx cs. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u270	Yes 54 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 9 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 99 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 99 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 94) Yes 72 Yes No. 64 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 99 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 99 of the Constitution has been adopted. Mr Lutgen voted like his group. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 104 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 104 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 95) Yes 104 Yes No. 34 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 104 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 104 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 109 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 109 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 96) Yes 68 Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber rejects the proposed declaration of revision of article 109 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 109 of the Constitution has been rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 110 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 110 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 97) Yes 70 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 110 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 110 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 111 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 111 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 98) Yes 70 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 111 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 111 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 113 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 113 of the Constitution. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u271	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 113 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 113 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 132 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 132 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 99) Yes 86 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 132 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 132 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 135a of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 135a of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 100) Yes [[85]] Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of Article 135bis of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 135a of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 142 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 142 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 101) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 23 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 142 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 142 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 13 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 143 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Kristof Calvo cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 143 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 102) Yes 65 Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 146 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 146 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 103) Yes 83 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 146 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 146 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 148 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 148 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 104) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 148 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 148 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 150 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 150 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 105) Yes 94 Yes No. [[43]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 150 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 150 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 151 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 151 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 106) Yes 106 Yes No. 32 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 151 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 151 of the Constitution has been adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 14 by Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 152(2) and (3) of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 152, second and third paragraphs, of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u272	Yes 72 Yes No. 65 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 15 by Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 157 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 15 of Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 157 of the Constitution. Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u273	Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No. 16 by Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 161 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Servais Verherstraeten cs to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 161 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u274	Yes 72 Yes No. 65 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on the proposal for a declaration of revision of Article 167 of the Constitution. Vote on the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 167 of the Constitution. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 109) Yes 97 Yes No. [[39]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed declaration of revision of article 167 of the Constitution. Consequently, the proposal for a declaration to revise Article 167 of the Constitution has been adopted. Mrs Ceysen has voted in favour. Vote on Amendment No. 4 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 181 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Patrick Dewael to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 181 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 110) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No. 7 by Veerle Wouters cs to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No The aim of Veerle Wouters cs is to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 111) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No. 17 by Peter De Roover to supplement the list of provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Peter De Roover to supplement the list of the provisions proposed for revision by Article 195 of the Constitution. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 112) Yes 61 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip281x.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have to decide on the adoption of the agenda, which was not agreed at the Conference of Presidents. I propose that the sitting be held on Wednesday 24 April in the afternoon, as there will be committee meetings in the morning; and Thursday 25 April, also in the afternoon. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Wednesday 24 April 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Wednesday, April 24, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
