ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the oral questions and, as we have already decided, we shall begin with Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u2	First of all, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I would also like to thank colleagues for wanting to change the agenda. Minister, the 2016 strategic vision lists a number of investments for upgrades of certain systems that Defence wants to keep in operation. I would like an overview from you on three points. Firstly, EUR 13 million will be earmarked for tactical air transport from 2020. This is an upgrade to the NH90. Secondly, EUR 27 million will be earmarked for an upgrade of the current two frigates from 2020. Third, there's the Pandur's upgrade. Documents have emerged which are nonetheless devastating for the ongoing update of this reconnaissance vehicle, which costs EUR 31 million for the sake of clarity. The internal documents indicate that these vehicles are unusable. That's the conclusion of the reconnaissance battalion ISTAR. We've all seen those documents. They talk about too tight spaces for the military, steering wheels that are blocked, and so on. The conclusion is bone-hard. The vehicles that were delivered after the upgrade are not job-efficient and unusable. I'd like to get some technical explanations about this upgrade from you. How's that going? How come it's such a fiasco? I'd also like to hear your conclusion. Are you going to continue with the upgrade? Or does this program stop? At the moment, it seems to be one big waste of tax resources. Everything can be solved, of course, but I do not think it is intended that, if you take your car to the garage for repair, your car will be completely useless and you will hardly be able to get in afterwards. Everything can be solved, but everything costs money. In these times of savings, we must not throw away tax money. All the more so because the problems at the Pandur aren't new. Since the transformation of the Pandur into a reconnaissance vehicle, in 2008, the problems have continued to accumulate. In 2009, there was an accident with a Pandur, in 2011, ISTAR's unit commander expressed serious doubts about Pandur's operationality. The Pandur has never actually been operationally deployed for foreign operations in which the reconnaissance battalion has participated ISTAR. The intention of this vehicle must be to be deployed in military operations. A lot of warnings, a lot of red flashing lights were apparently ignored by the then Secretary of Defense, Steven Vandeput, when he included the upgrade of the Pandur in his strategic vision in 2016, where he linked the fine amount of 31 million euros. At the moment, that seems to have been thrown away tax dollars. There's certainly a very big mistake there. Mr Minister, how come all these warnings about Pandur's poor state were ignored at the time when that decision to upgrade was taken? For the record, that upgrade has nothing to do with the Pandur's problems. On the contrary, the upgrade provides even heavier and stronger armor. The technical problems with the Pandur, which were already known, remain. By the way, we can also see that this upgrade has completely failed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u3	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, this afternoon there will be a briefing of the état major with more explanation. That is why the answer I can give you now is somewhat limited. I'll give the floor to the General for more details. The modernisation programme for the transport variant TTH of the NH90 currently consists of three sub-programmes. The first programme, with a contract worth 1.4 million euros constants 2015, was signed and consists of providing the TTH with an adapted air traffic control system, as required by NATO. The second programme consists of the purchase of a system to prepare the shipments to allow more specifically the management of operations Battlespace. The adoption of that programme is currently under way. The cost is estimated at 3.8 million euros constants 2015. The latter part will consist of an adaptation of both the hardware and the helicopter software in order to support the special forces operations on the one hand and to meet a number of civil aviation legal requirements on the other. Its cost is expected in the course of 2020. The operationality of the NH90 is currently 39 %. The upgrade of the Pandur reconnaissance vehicle is currently underway, but has been delayed due to the complexity of the program and the different contracts associated with it. I now give the floor to General Devogelaere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u4	Mr President, historically, the Pandur was a vehicle purchased as a troop transport vehicle. After that, it was decided at some point to use the vehicle as a reconnaissance vehicle. A number of programs had to be started to rebuild the vehicle. At the same time, it was also found that the threat had evolved on the various theatres. Through our efforts, including in Afghanistan and recently in Mali and elsewhere in Africa, vehicles need to be better protected and resistant to mines and improvised explosive devices. That finding was already made at the beginning of the years 2000, 2005-2008, and a decision was taken in 2010-2012 to better protect the vehicle by providing it with better armor and mine control. The contract was signed in 2013 and the contract was drawn up and executed, together with Austria, which also has these vehicles. The determinations made in relation to ergonomics therefore relate to the type of vehicle delivered. The vehicle is indeed already used in Belgium for a number of exercises. You have already seen in press releases and in photographs that these vehicles are used in ISTAR exercises. Maybe the vehicles have already been used in your own municipality as part of exercises. In addition, the strategic vision also includes an adaptation of the vehicles in the area of motorisation, a Remote Controlled Weapons System, an anti-missile system and also an adaptation of the observation and communication system. Those adjustments have been negotiated and are now being implemented and will normally be delivered in 2020-2023. The current findings on ergonomics are therefore known and are followed by the staff. This will also be discussed at the press conference this afternoon. The aim is of course to determine, on the basis of these ergonomics analyses, which audience – soldiers or drivers – is concerned and how to integrate these people into the vehicle. At some point, a choice will have to be made, as has been done for the F-16, where the pilot cannot exceed a specific size suitable for the cockpit. This will also be part of this afternoon's briefing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u5	Mr President, I now give the rest of my answer. The upgrade includes four parts. Firstly, there is the upgrade of ballistic and mine protection to an amount of EUR 8 million. Its implementation is under way. Secondly, the engines and the transmission of existing vehicles need to be modernised to the tune of EUR 15 million. That program is in progress and the manufacturer is now working on a prototype. On top of that is the integration of the Remote Controlled Weapon Station. Thirdly, the modernisation of the observation and exploration platform for an amount of EUR 7 million is in progress with the manufacturer. Fourthly, a contract of EUR 1 million is being launched to provide the RPG network (Rocket-Propelled Grenade) on the vehicle. The objective is to have the first ballistic and mine protection vehicles operational by mid 2021. Finally, the initiative was provided with a budget of €27 million for a final upgrade from current frigates to the replacement program of frigates. The current frigates had already undergone the necessary adjustments between 2010 and 2013 to operate with NH90 helicopters. Both frigates are kept operational by means of the planned maintenance period up to and including their withdrawal period currently planned in 2027 and late 2028 respectively. In 2020, the frigate Louise-Marie will undergo its sixth scheduled maintenance (large maintenance period) from February to April 2021. The frigate Leopold I is operational and internationally operational until April 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u6	I thank the Minister and the General for their enlightening answers. Mr De Vriendt, you have the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u7	Mr General, Minister, there is no delay in the internal documents of Defence, but problems with the upgrade that have led to Pandur vehicles being completely unusable. Delay may be a good word for a failure, but you have to name the problems as they are, in particular that the upgrade has already delivered a number of vehicles to the Defense Department and that the Defense Department has established that these vehicles are not jobless and cannot really be used anymore. That does not seem to me to be the intention of an upgrade that cost EUR 31 million. We must therefore face up to the facts. I did not get an answer to the question why the warnings from the past, all those red flashing lights, were not respected? Why weren't they watched? Why was the upgrade planned in the strategic vision of 2016? At Defense there is no confidence in the Pandur and yet this vehicle was continued after the conversion into a reconnaissance vehicle. There is no logical reason for this, unless perhaps short-term thinking, patching up or budgetary choices. We know that EUR 3.5 billion has gone to new fighter planes. In a number of other areas, we may have had to save heavily, at the expense of the military, the personnel who do not have good, decent, safe military equipment at their disposal. Our ISTAR battalion is a reputable and competent battalion. They have had to cope for years with such vehicles which have now become completely unusable after the upgrade. This is a disaster file for the Defense Department, in times of savings. Thirty-one million euros throwing away taxpayers' money is really not done. There is no conclusion yet from you or that upgrade goes on. You're talking about delay. I conclude from this that this upgrade goes on, but that the vehicles that are now unusable are also being returned and that the adjustments have to be made again, so that it may still be okay. The question is whether these Pandur vehicles will be able to be used, as opposed to the last few years in which they were actually not used. In 2011, doubts were expressed by the unit commander. That's not nothing. The answer is not satisfactory at all. I look forward to further information. I hope this is where buttons get cut. If we need reconnaissance vehicles, they might have to be new ones. These budgetary choices must therefore be made in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u8	Minister, the Belgian F-16s are expected to return to Iraq and Syria in the second half of 2020. The Defence Spokesman indicated that such a deployment was indeed on the plan for operations 2020. As the author, along with my colleagues, of a motion for a resolution on the publicity of Belgian military operations and exercises abroad, both vis-à-vis the House and the general public, I must note that such adequate and systematic information is lacking. Minister, can you give me more information about the contours of a possible return of our F-16s over Iraq and Syria? What is the status of the adoption of the 2020 Operations Plan? Do you intend to present it to the House and, if so, within what time frame? Finally, are there any initiatives planned to improve the readability – particularly on the Internet – for the general public?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u9	My colleague, the coalition against Daesh is planning to continue air operations in 2020, either over Syria or Iraq or only Iraq. After a temporary interruption of its participation in the air campaign under Operation Inherent Resolve, Belgium envisages a new participation of the four F-16s and a detachment of about 95 soldiers from mid-2020 for a period of one year. This potential commitment of our F-16s has yet to be decided by the government. The Defence Staff is currently monitoring developments in Syria, in cooperation with other coalition members. It is clear that the framework of the F-16 mission, its area of action and its mandate must be clearly defined. It is in this context that a possible deployment of F-16 is included in the Operations 2020 file. This possibility of engagement of our F-16s was presented to the Monitoring Committee for Missions Abroad and to the Defence Committee for discussion before being put on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. Initiatives to improve readability for the general public could be taken, based on the planning elements that remain to be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. They show the value of having the greatest information and transparency for military operations abroad as well as the exercises that can be conducted by our army. The PS has tabled a motion for a resolution to improve the transparency of Belgian military operations and exercises abroad and to ensure that this point is systematically included when we discuss your department's general policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u11	Minister, this issue has already been raised during the discussion on NATO and our objective towards a contribution of 2%. The government indicated at that time that we are going up in that percentage. One of the reasons for this is, of course, the fact that the strategic vision included a budget of 9.2 billion for payments for the weapons programmes. This budget is now indexed at more than 11 billion. We note in the Monitoring Committee's figures that these payments are being put forward and that over the next five years, from 2020 to 2024, we will not pay EUR 2.6 billion, but EUR 5.4 billion. That is, of course, a lot more, and in view of all the discussions and questions here about staff and infrastructure, we are concerned about this. Minister, I would like to ask you two questions about this. What is the reason why that path of growth has been pushed so far forward? Is there still a possibility of flexibility, or is that totally fixed, and can we no longer get out of it if we find that there are other needs in these tight budgetary times? Do you not fear that these payments, combined with the rising operating costs, will mortgage the further functioning of our Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u12	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to congratulate you on your assumption of office in Defence and Foreign Affairs. You're going to fulfill an extremely important mission. I am pleased that you have already been able to go to the field to support our troops deployed outside. So you're a minister of day-to-day business in a minority government, but you're also faced with a multitude of challenges, deadlines and emergencies. I would therefore like you to give a clear answer to the commitments made by Belgium under the military programming law and to the acquisitions of heavy equipment actually made by the outgoing government. Could you provide us with the status of payments due this year and in 2020 for the purchase of equipment by the various Defence capabilities, be it the Army, the Navy or the Air Force? Given current affairs and budgetary constraints, do you see any difficulties in meeting these different deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the strategic vision of which the preamble was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016 provides for an increase in the defence effort to 1.3 percent of gross domestic product by 2030 and indicates that the department should evolve in the areas of staffing, investment and international contributions. The deviation from that linear growth path is the result of the contractually committed payments deducted for the investments in main material included in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017, which prevents another spread. The proposal for a budget for Defence 2020-2024, which was included in the Monitoring Committee's report, includes, in addition to the payment of investments in main material, a gradual increase in the basic envelope, in order to put in place the new weapons systems, to increase investment in current material and infrastructure and the stock of ammunition at the required level, to replace the resources for additional outsourcing and to take measures to increase the attractiveness of the military profession. If the budget submitted by the Ministry of Defence is approved, the department may carry out its tasks properly. Article 4 of the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017 states that the appropriations necessary to cover the expenditure of the year concerned under the current commitments, as well as new commitments, shall be entered in the General Estimates annually. The finance law for provisional appropriations in 2019 as well as the defence budget proposal for the year 2020, included in the report of the Monitoring Committee of 2 September 2019, provides the necessary appropriations for the payment of the debt resulting from the contractual obligations of the major equipment investment programmes, included in the Strategic Vision under implementation. Therefore, my department sees no difficulty in honouring these payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In 2016 that was recorded according to you and now there is no distribution possible. I assume that the deficits we are facing today will not be seen in 2016. I continue to be very concerned about this, because we are also talking about other needs for the army. We can only spend it once. I am genuinely concerned about this, because in the coming years we will pay more than five billion dollars to those weapons, and that is a huge amount. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u15	Good morning, Minister, congratulations. I would like to return to a recent public procurement. As you know, the Council of Ministers recently approved the award of a public procurement contract as part of the deployment of a Mobile Education and Training Team in Maradi, Niger, starting in September 2019. The mission is expected to continue in 2020 and may continue thereafter. This contract relates more precisely to the rental of an Emergency Response Capacity for medical support in the area and was awarded according to the negotiated procedure without publicity. It is expected to cover a period from 2020 to 2023. I must say, minister, that I do not understand much more between what I read in the press and what you decide. The Strategic Vision provided for the purchase of equipment for the medical component. So far, nothing unusual. But will this material now be used by a private company? The medical component plays an essential role in our missions abroad, and the Strategic Vision does not emphasize it sufficiently. As far as outsourcing is concerned, we have always been a little reluctant. You always told us it was for non-military tasks. Is this still the case here? I recall that the army is a regal function. It is good not to forget it and above all not to embark on precedents that could be dangerous. I would therefore like to know, Minister, which company has been chosen to provide the above-mentioned medical services. What guarantee does it offer in terms of quality of care? What is the involvement of the medical component in this context? Will the outsourcing of medical support be confined to this particular operation? Or is the aim to generalize it? Finally, what is the cost of this procurement to the Defence budget? Do we have any idea what it cost when it was managed internally by the army?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u16	Mr. Bayet, thank you for your welcome. The company chosen for the performance of the contract is International SOS Belgium BVBA. The technical specifications of the specifications for this public contract have been drawn up by the medical component to ensure that the provider complies with the standards and standards of quality in medicine, both in terms of the qualifications of the medical staff and the equipment to be provided. As part of the evaluation of the offer, a check was carried out to verify the validity and equivalence of the diplomas and medical certificates of the carers engaged by the firm. The same applies to medical equipment. These assessments were carried out by officers and doctors of the medical component. In addition, a military doctor will be permanently present in Maradi when the mission is carried out from 2020 onwards. It will be responsible for assessing the quality of care provided during any interventions. The goal of Defence is certainly not to generalize the outsourcing of medical support into operations, on the contrary. Investments in personnel and equipment are being prepared as part of the implementation of the 2016 Strategic Vision in order to provide the medical component with the necessary means to independently provide operational medical support according to the level of ambition chosen. The amount reserved for the fixed tranche of the contract is EUR 3 110 719. This is a lump sum amount covering all personnel, equipment, infrastructure and operating costs related to the deployment and provision of Emergency Response capacity in Niger for one year, namely 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u17	Thank you, Minister, I am already half reassured that you will not continue to outsource the medical component. However, when we look at the costs and amounts, I think that it will be necessary for a real evaluation to be carried out next year to examine whether the outsourcing of a series of missions is beneficial to the army or whether it is better to continue as it was before and to strengthen the skills available within the various services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u18	Minister, ever since the Islamic terrorist attacks have threatened our society more and more, our military, in support of the police, our cities and our streets, are protecting us. They do so in the context of Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG). This operation was always experienced as necessary and was often a clear added value in the field. Recently, however, Defense asked the National Security Council to propose the phasing-out plan. Among other things, it would decide to reduce the number of soldiers in areas of terror. The lack of people is nothing new under the sun. Minister, how many soldiers are there at the moment before the army's street mission? How many soldiers do we want to evolve into the phasing-out plan? Can you explain the phasing-out plan in general? The phasing-out plan would have been communicated to the federal police, but there would still be conflicts with the local police. So what kind of problems are we talking about in concrete terms? How are we going to find a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u19	Mr President, Minister, since January 2015, Operation Vigilant Guardian is under way in our country. For more than four years, this has provided ongoing support to police services. If its end has been mentioned repeatedly, it has never taken place. However, I learned that on Friday, October 25, 2019, the Defence presented to the National Security Council a plan to reduce the number of soldiers on the street. The number of soldiers would thus increase from 450 to 220. Minister, can you take a look at this operation? At present, how many military personnel are involved in this framework? What about the coming months? For 2019, with regard to costs, what budget has been allocated to this operation, on the one hand, to the Defence and, on the other, to the Internal SPF? What are the Budget Plans for 2020? Have all invoices sent by your department to the Interior FPS been honoured? Is a definitive withdrawal of our troops into the streets envisaged? In what proportion and on what agenda is Operation Vigilant Guardian supposed to be replaced by the DAB? How many members have opted for the DAB at present?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u20	Mrs. Chanson is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u21	Colleagues, at the moment 420 soldiers are deployed 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to support the integrated police, of which 94 are available as a fast reserve. After almost five years in an initial phase, the draft phasing-out plan between the federal police and Defence provided for a gradual and progressive take-back of the security mission by the federal police, so that another 200 deployed soldiers and a rapidly deployable reserve of 100 soldiers would be needed to support the integrated police. As of September 2020, the police would re-implement the security of its sites. Only the nuclear sites in Flanders would require the deployment of 30 soldiers until a date to be determined. The federal police have proposed that phasing-out plan to the three Brussels police zones concerned and the Antwerp police zone. The contacts between the federal police and the police area of Antwerp are still ongoing. However, my predecessor, Minister Reynders, has explicitly asked my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, to carry out the first phase of that plan, the taking back of the security mission by the federal police. The federal police first want a global agreement, so also on a sunny level. I refer you to my colleague, the Minister for the Interior. The Memorandum of Understanding does not provide for a deadline for the cessation of Defence support to the Integrated Police, but nevertheless provides that this support is due to a level of threat equal to 3. The overall level of threat in Belgium has fallen to 2. However, some sites (airports, international stations, metros, embassies) are still at level 3. The military is working in four ways in accordance with operational engagement techniques and procedures. These teams support the police every day for 11 to 14 hours during their three to four-week deployment. Most units perform multiple rotations per year. These long hours of work are inevitable due to an increasing shortage of military personnel combined with ongoing military operations abroad. The locations are determined by the Crisis Centre on the basis of risk analyses of the police areas. The number of military personnel fluctuated according to the attacks inside and outside the country and the number of sites: from 300 military personnel in January 2015 to a maximum of 1,680 in April 2016 with an actual figure of 420. The cost for Defence amounts to €196,781 million from January 2015 to December 2019. The Defence budget does not provide for expenditures related to personnel costs and operations in support of the Federal Police under Operation Vigilant Guardian. The department pre-finances its expenses and then periodically submits a request to the Minister of Budget for an interdepartmental provision. Thus, for 2019, the budget of $18 million is spent for its non-recurring expenses in the Terro provision. Defence services in this transaction will therefore not be billed to the Inland FPS. In the Defence 2020 budget, no provision is made for these benefits if they are to be extended. Where appropriate, the department will also make use of the interdepartmental provision. The implementation of the DAB, some of which involves monitoring missions currently carried out by the military, falls within the competence of the Federal Police. A total of 33 military personnel will have opted for BAD at the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u22	Minister, it is true that the deployment of the Vigilant Guardian operation has been going on for five years. It is logical that this commitment was temporary and we are pleased that work is finally being carried out on the implementation of the phasing-out plan. It will take some time to process the aftermath of that operation on the HR level, for example the overtime worked at Defense itself. In the past, at least according to some sources in the Defense Department, it was always said that the ideal would be between 300 and 500 soldiers, but I now hear that we will reduce to 200 soldiers on the ground. We are pleased that this evolution is taking place and following them up. In general, we are strongly in favour of a structural dialogue between all security actors in our country, so that in the short term, Defence can fully focus on all the challenges facing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers. In fact, what is complicated in this case is that we have had to deal with a crisis situation. The military came to support, to help the federal police and local police, to ensure the security of the nation and our fellow citizens. But it is true that, in the medium term, this has had to continue. For us, doing what the federal police should do is not the role of our military, but we know why the army was asked to do it. There is also a shortage of staff in the Federal Police. Here's a first element. The army did what it had to do. That's so good. Secondly, we cannot discuss here the places where our military personnel have been deployed in the course of these operations. Why? The Commission for the Monitoring of Military Operations Abroad is talking about abroad. Here, we are in a public session and I understand that a discretion is necessary, in order not to insure our military or to compromise the safety of the places by information that would be too widespread publicly. For a parliamentarian, it is always a little difficult to exercise his control. We may need to think together about a framework, so that we can have information not only quantitatively but also qualitatively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u24	Minister, we have already discussed in the MR resolution that the military increasingly chooses to outsource tasks. That is not abnormal when it comes to cleaning activities, catering and so on. Soon I will also have a question about the fact that they are going to help the police in their work checks. I think that's a little weirder. We also have questions about outsourcing the guard of military quarters. Mr President, why do you choose such outsourcing? That seems to us to be an activity that military personnel can carry out themselves. What is the justification for this choice? What are the exact tasks of these firms? What is expected of them? How many people are we talking about? What are the additional costs of this decision? After all, I assume that they will not come here for free.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u25	Mr Minister, as you know, my group has always criticized the outsourcing of a series of defence functions, some of which we believe may be fiscally, humanely, safely and "symbolically" critical of a regal function. On the SLFP Defence site, we learned that the Defence would have decided, pending planned outsourcing, to re-establish the professional guard for the units that are currently supervising their neighbourhoods by means of an organic guard. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you indicate which military quarters are involved and the reasons that have led to this choice against the will of your predecessors to outsource? Is a long-term vision in this area under consideration in consultation with the trade unions? Is the plan to outsource all the guards in the military quarters maintained despite everything?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u26	Mr President, the retirement wave in the Defense Department will be largely absorbed by extra tasks. This will be done, as the strategic vision suggests, by outsource tasks that do not require military expertise or experience and can be done more efficiently through the civilian market. In total, the current activities of around 5,000 military personnel by 2030 should be carried out by companies or other government agencies in the service of Defence. The outsourcing of tasks is therefore a strategic choice depending on the feasibility of the private market. The surveillance of our barracks in Belgium requires the equivalent of 1,100 soldiers on an annual basis, either the equivalent of two combat units or a large air base. In other words, by outsourceing surveillance, we safeguard our military and operational capacity. The companies are expected to take over the surveillance 24 hours a day and seven days a day. This is done, on the one hand, by providing specific staff and, on the other hand, by replacing technical aids to support the execution of contracts. Five quarters have already been outsourced: Heverlee, Poelkapelle, Rocourt, Melsbroek and the Renaissance campus of the Royal Military School. The surveillance of our barracks is contracted out gradually and in accordance with the market's possibilities. The total annual cost of outsourcing the monitoring of all barracks is estimated at EUR 50 million. Outsourcing the surveillance of our military quarters will continue as planned. Planning has been established and unions are regularly informed of this. The procedure is under way for four additional neighbourhoods: Elsenborn, Eupen, Meerdaal and Burcht. By entrusting this mission to a civilian firm, we will be able to hire these military personnel for specific military tasks and free up the budget for recruitment or other activities. This outsourcing will help to absorb the workload of 1,100 military personnel on an annual basis. Just over 50% of this work is done by a professional guard, i.e. an exclusive task for a member. The other half is performed by an organic guard. The latter implies that all members of the unit are employed in turn in the guard of the neighbourhood, which has a huge impact on internal functioning and on operational conditions within the units concerned. In order to better guarantee the operationality of the units using an organic guard, it was decided, pending the planned outsourcing, to reinstate the professional guard. It is therefore de facto a temporary solution that does not change the ongoing outsourcing process for the neighbourhoods concerned. In total, about ten neighbourhoods will be affected by outsourcing: Beauvechain, Flawinne, Brasschaat, Spa, Amay, Kleine-Brogel, Florennes, Marche-en-Famenne, Leopoldsburg, Tielen and Grobbendonk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u27	Mr Minister, we continue to find it a rather peculiar choice: today we are putting soldiers on the streets because the police have too few people to do so, and to replace them, we are using private companies to guard our barracks. That's a strange choice, which costs us quite a lot of money. We must continue to look very critically at this. For us, this cannot be a structural solution at all. Again, it is possible for some activities, but military should still be able to be used for these activities, even if it concerns 1,100 people who are replaced in this way. We must therefore continue to follow that up and, as soon as there is room again, our soldiers absolutely must carry out this task on their own.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u28	Minister, I remain convinced of the non-pertinence of outsourcing the monitoring of military quarters. We could debate it for catering or something. Even though I was also opposed to it, I could hear the arguments. But here, it is an important function, a regal function. Conferring the guard of military quarters, therefore of neighborhoods of the Nation, to private firms, seems to me to be a choice that is not insignificant, because from then on, we depend on the private to ensure the security of our neighbourhoods. I don't understand why we didn't call on the military police. It seemed to me that guarding military quarters was also a possible function for the oldest military. As you said in the preamble, there is a phenomenon of attrition and age pyramid. We must certainly ask ourselves how we will reinvigorate this. It seems to me that we are removing opportunities that reinforced the interesting character of a career in National Defence through repeated and growing outsourcing. This is not a choice of staff. These are political choices above all, and budgetary choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u29	Minister, with the reorganisation of the ADIV with a view to better integration of the departments, the Directorate for Counterintelligence (CI) would disappear. Article 11 of the law on intelligence and security services states that counter-intelligence and counter-intelligence, as well as the protection of our country's scientific and economic potential, are important tasks of ADIV. In our view, the abolition of this section could pose problems. Mr Minister, have you been briefed on the reorganisation that is currently taking place at the ADIV? Is the information correct that the Counterintelligence Board would be abolished? What is to be done in place of that department, so that the guarantee laid down in the law can be met? What does the organization chart of the service look like? How does that relate to the past and future interventions? The creation of a common counter-terrorism platform involving other security services is also under way. I think that is a good thing, but how will the coordination of that platform go?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u30	Minister, under the previous legislature, there has been much debate about the reorganization of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS). Indeed, the parliamentary commission of inquiry into the terrorist attacks had noted the situation of our two intelligence services: the State Security and the SGRS. The observation was sometimes harsh, unfortunately. For my group, there is no doubt that the specificity of military intelligence must be maintained, as it is fully justified. However, the SGRS would be more effective if it focused on its core business: in other words, purely military intelligence, internal and external, but also in the cyber dimension. Some of its civilian tasks should therefore be entrusted to State Security in order to achieve greater coherence and avoid confusion. As you know, my group also believes that a reflection should be organized in order to fully integrate the ISTAR battalion into the SGRS, rather than leaving it as a satellite within the Earth component, beyond control - despite the extent of its resources. Therefore, Minister, what is the status of implementation of the Board of Inquiry's recommendations with respect to the SGRS, both in terms of its reorganization and of human resources, its missions and its relations with its civilian counterpart?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u31	In fact, Minister, several questions have already been asked about this in the past. The Committee I audit includes a large number of "very high" priority recommendations, which had to be implemented by the end of 2018, and "high" priority recommendations, which had to be implemented by June 2019. Recommendations with the "average" label had to be implemented by December 2019, i.e. around this time. My questions are largely in line with those that have already been asked. I'm curious to hear your answers. Firstly, General Van de Voorde is trying to implement the major reforms in the short term. Normally this is accompanied by resentment in the organisation. I'm still being careful about expressing myself. In the light of the restructuring, how do you assess the relationship between civilian and military personnel on the one hand and staff on the other hand and the management framework on the other? Secondly, what is the state of play and what are the future plans for section CI? Thirdly, is there any noticeable improvement in the cooperation between ADIV and State Security? Fourthly, what progress has been made on the implementation of the audit decisions carried out by the I Committee in June 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u32	Colleagues, the Secretary of Defense's cabinet has already been informed of the new structure and is regularly informed of the progress of the situation. The new structure should be able to enter into force from 2020. The objective of the ongoing restructuring is clearly to provide a structural solution to some of the shortcomings highlighted both in the recommendations of the parliamentary post-attack committee of March 2016 and in the report of the R Committee, taking into account the evolution of the intelligence work carried out today. Recently, the members of the R Committee were briefed and received the documents enabling them to close this file. A report will be given at the next follow-up committee of the R Committee. The new structure translates into both a holistic approach to the analysis of threats and a maximization of synergies and resources in services. For this purpose, benchmarking was also carried out with a number of similar services in Denmark, the Netherlands, Switzerland and in Belgium with the Security of the State or VSSE. The significant change lies in the fact that the work will now be carried out in cross-cutting platforms relating to certain themes and/or regions of the world, bringing together intelligence and counter-interference expertise, and ad hoc expertise in the areas of cyber and security. These platforms will be coordinated by DISC (Defence Intelligence and Security Command and Control), a central structure that assesses needs and priorities, as well as monitoring and quality of products. This is an integrated and holistic approach by theme and/or region that allows more flexibility depending on the need and emergencies with unchanged personnel and equipment. With the reorganisation, the ADIV will be able to fulfil its legal obligations and mission more effectively. The specific features of intelligence and counter-intelligence are maintained, while the cross-cutting aspects of cyber and security domains are strengthened by working in thematic platforms and prioritising through an integrated ADIV Steering Plan. For the detailed explanation, please refer to the Committee I's follow-up committee. The ADIV can provide a detailed presentation on the new operation and the new organization chart in that committee. The coordination of the activities of the Counterterrorism platform is carried out under the shared responsibility of the management of both services, the ADIV and the VSSE. The cooperation between the ADIV and the VSSE has developed positively and is progressing very well. In many cases there is a thorough exchange of information between the two departments, but in the form of bilateral expert meetings or through notes, briefings and so on. The other threats to counter-intelligence, espionage, sabotage, subversion and organised crime continue to be the jurisdiction of the ADIV, given their specificity and the accumulated experience of the ADIV, if they occur in a military environment and/or have a link with Defence. The reform has as far-reaching implications for civilian personnel as for the military. There are no signs that the reform would make the relationship between civilians and soldiers worse. On the contrary, as some transversal platforms are already operating, citizens and soldiers are working more closely together than they used to be. This leads to better mutual understanding at all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u33	Mr Minister, I will read your answer carefully, because it was quite extensive and a lot of expensive words were used. So we are going to take a look at it to see to what extent our questions are being met.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it seems essential for my group – in our reflection on the SGRS – that contacts be made with the Regions regarding hybrid threats to economic potential. It would be interesting to dig this furrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u35	Mr President, yesterday we had a first discussion on this subject in the Committee I's advisory committee. The audit was also discussed there in the past. We discussed the 2018 activity report yesterday. It was announced that an evaluation would be sent to the committee. I certainly look forward to that meeting in early spring. In the past, we have already engaged with this committee in dialogue with the management of the ADIV. It certainly seems interesting to me to discuss a less secret theme, namely the general functioning of the ADIV, with the general or a Member. That's a public debate. Sometimes it's a matter of the personality of executives, but maybe there are also structural flaws in the organization. We will certainly continue to follow this issue, both in committee and in other fora.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Hanus's 5501326C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u37	Minister, there are no legal language frameworks for the army, as is the case elsewhere, but there is an agreement that a ratio of 60N to 40F is sought for the distribution of relations between Dutch and French speakers. I have regularly questioned your predecessors about whether the agreement was being honoured, given the still considerable distortions to the detriment of the Flemings. One of your predecessors, Mr Vandeput, promised at the time that the defence industry would make efforts to correct the distortions. Very recently, Mr Lacroix requested the figures for the last four years and for July 2019. Just to be clear, that's about data inside and outside budget and inside and outside envelope. I can only conclude from this that with the considerable distortions that have already been identified by your predecessor, Mr Vandeput, we are systematically continuing to reverse them. This is still the case for the petty officers, where we evolved from 58,06 % Dutch speakers in 2016 to 56,54 % in July of this year, and so is the case for the volunteers, where we evolved from 52,44 % Dutch speakers to 50,52 % for the same period. Your predecessor, Mr Vandeput, was able to determine this decline, but your other predecessor, Mr Reynders, has accelerated it considerably. While the share of Dutch speakers fell by 0.26% on an annual basis among Mr Vandeput, Mr Reynders does not have less than 1%. So these are jobs that are taken away from the Dutch speakers, as so often at the federal level, when we consider the 60/40 key. More specifically, we are currently dealing with 1,368 jobs. The lower the degrees and therefore the less competences required, the greater the distortions, which is anything but obvious. Firstly, what explanation do you give for the further derailment of language relations? That is, of course, a completely unacceptable situation. Secondly, can you explain why the distortions were considerably accelerated? Thirdly, in what way did the DOD make the efforts promised to your predecessor to correct the distortions? Finally, what measures are being taken to reverse the negative trend as quickly as possible and to achieve acceptable language relationships?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u38	Mrs. Pas, Defense is committed to the respect of language relations. When preparing the recruitment file, account shall always be taken of the language relationships in the respective categories. In 2019 these language relationships will be as follows. The officers must have 43 % French speaking; 56 % Dutch speaking and 1 % Dutch or French speaking. In the case of petty officers, that is 41 % French speaking, 56 % Dutch speaking and 3 % Dutch or French speaking. In the case of volunteers, this is 45% French and 55% Dutch. Due to the decrease in the number of Dutch-language applicants, many open positions for Dutch-speaking people cannot be filled after the selection procedure. This is not about job vacancies that are taken away from Dutch speakers, but about vacancies that attract fewer Dutch speakers. Over the past few years, the Defence Department has sought to improve its image and perception among the Belgian population, by improving general communication and clearly communicating job opportunities at Defense. At present, the ratio of the number of suitable candidates when the officers are recruited is as follows: 38,74 % is French speaking and 61,26 % is Dutch speaking in 2019 compared to 38,60 % French speaking and 61,40 % Dutch speaking in 2018. Petty Officers have 47.98 % French speakers and 52.02 % Dutch speakers in 2019 compared to 45.75 % French speakers and 54.25 % Dutch speakers in 2018. For the volunteers we cannot yet give a complete picture, since the selected applicants for recruitment in December have not yet been recruited. According to the figure of 12 November last year, the ratio for this category is 55,56 % French-speaking and 44,54 % Dutch-speaking in 2019. We note that the efforts made give a better result to French-speaking applicants. This will be dealt with further. Cooperation with VDAB, Forem and Actiris is also strengthened. Finally, there is also an active commitment to the renewal of recruitment processes in order to attract a maximum of young people to work at Defence. Concerns about this are independent of a particular language system. As a result of the massive retirement of more than a third of the workforce in 2025, the recapitalisation of the workforce is much needed, in a highly competitive labour market, characterised by an imbalance between the skills available and the expectations of employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will review all the figures you have given in your reply. Your statement that you are committed to respecting the language relationships in the Defense Department is a credit to you, but the only measure you mention is that you are committed to communication, in particular to communicating as clearly as possible and as clearly as possible about the job opportunities. I think that's very thin. I have not been given an answer to my question as to how the Defence Department has made a commitment to make efforts to correct the distortions, or has complied with them. I think we need more than just communication. If the government is not in current business, I would, as I used to do in the past, file an interview, and I would then be able to table a motion of recommendation. Unfortunately, that is not possible now. However, the majority cannot table a simple motion, as it has done in the past, to proceed to the order of the day. Mr President, I do not think that we should proceed to the order of the day. The negative trend is getting worse and worse; that proves the figures you have just read out must indeed be reversed. As soon as there is a new government, I will be ready with my motion of recommendation to steer the issue in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u40	Mr Flahaut apologized, but said I could put my question at ease.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u41	Mr Minister, my question was drafted before the NATO Leaders Meeting in London. Meanwhile, there has also been an exchange of views with Prime Minister Wilmès and your predecessor, Minister Reynders. On 25 October, the Council of Ministers approved the Strategic Level Report for 2020, which enabled us to identify the commitments made under the 2017 Defence Investment Pledge. In the context of the NATO Defence Planning Process, the alliance imposed 163 targets on us, of which the Defense would not be able to meet 22. The press is speculating about where these gaps lie. For example, reference is made to a NATO request for an additional brigade and an additional purchase of F-35 aircraft. At the same time, the summit was the ideal opportunity for the alliance to announce the initial operational capability of NATO Readiness Initiative (NRI), with the allies significantly strengthening the pool of units with a high readiness. Our country announced its contribution at the initial planning conference in June, but was also imposed an Individual Readiness Development Plan after a discrepancy between what we had notified and what the alliance asked for. Minister, I have six specific questions. Firstly, can you submit a quantified report to Parliament? This is, after all, a minimum condition for the debate to take place on the substance. Secondly, can you confirm the gaps in the Strategic Level Report? Where are they located mostly? What is their weight within the overall picture? Thirdly, which of the 22 unachieved thresholds are within the reach of Defense? Are there any suggestions from the defence staff to reach them yet? Fourthly, how do you assess the final performance of our country and its chances of success? How do we score with this report in the classification of alliance members? Fifthly, as far as the NRA is concerned, has our country been able to make an additional effort to increase its contribution? Where exactly were the deficits? How did the DOD fill these out? Finally, what about the efforts of the other allies? Will the alliance be able to explain its Initial Operational Capability at the December Summit? This last question is of course post factum.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u42	Mr Buysrogge, the NATO Special Meeting of May 2017 decided that the allies should submit an annual national report, the Strategic Level Report. This report shows first of all the progress of the engagements of the Defence Investment Pledge undertaken by the allies at the 2014 Wales Summit and includes three specific domains, better known by the acronym of the 3 C's:cash, capacity and contribution. The purpose of the report is therefore not to reveal any gaps. The Strategic Level Report approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2019 includes, for the period 2020-2024: the budget of the Department of Defence; pensions for former military personnel; certain expenses of other departments meeting the definition of defence expenditure. During this period, Defence's effort evolved from 1.01% of GDP in 2020 to 1.19% in 2023 and 2024. With regard to the Defence budget, these figures were taken from the report of the Monitoring Committee of 2 September 2019. For 2020 and subsequent years, this budget requires an upward trend, in line with the Strategic Vision approved on June 29, 2016. First, the contractual clauses for major material investments have already been carried out in implementation of the military programming law of 23 May 2017, and require advanced means of liquidation for the period 2020-2024. Means of engagement and liquidation will also be necessary for the completion of the other cases included in this Act. Secondly, the gradual growth of the base envelope taking over the appropriations for personnel, operation and investment in current equipment and infrastructure is justified by the implementation of the new systems and capabilities, by the maintenance of operational commitment, by the expansion of outsourcing so that the military, in smaller numbers, can focus on their core business, and by efforts in the area of attractiveness of the military profession, the well-being of working conditions. These figures do not include additional investments in major equipment, which will be necessary to fully meet the objectives imposed by the European Union and NATO. In addition, the Defence Staff is carrying out a study on how to fill in the NRA aspects. This study has not yet been completed. I cannot answer with regard to NATO's Initial Operational Capability. The SLR does not aim to place the allies in a ranking, but rather to measure the annual progress made. Belgium wishes to be a supportive and credible partner. The realisation of the strategic vision is certainly a step in the right direction. The Defence budget for 2020 published by the Monitoring Committee amounts to EUR 3.24 billion and is allocated as follows: 47% of the budget is earmarked for personnel expenditure; 30% is earmarked for operation; 20% is required to cover the debt of equipment investments; 3% is earmarked for infrastructure investments. Moreover, these percentages represent a better balance for expenditure on staff, operations and investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer and the figures. We must, of course, take further steps in this regard. That is the responsibility of all of us. Of course, there is not much that a government can do in current cases. I have a feeling that in this committee there is certainly the ambition to make further efforts in defence. I think this is borne by all the committee members. That is why I was extremely concerned when I read the note by former informant, Mr Magnette, in which there was no question of defence. I am concerned about that, but I hope that the new government, whoever will be in it, will pay due attention to the defence sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u44	Mr President, Minister, in accordance with the strategic vision developed by Minister Vandeput, Defence, together with the FPS Economy, the Regions and the Communities, which are responsible for industry and education, would set up a pragmatic partnership in order to bring the interests of our companies, our research institutions and our army closer together and to determine which areas are relevant to our national security and to the capacities that we wish to develop after 2030. The modalities would be defined in a Defence, Industry & Research Strategy (DIRS). Both Defence and the FPS Economy would hold on to this, but the contribution of the Regions on the industrial contribution would be essential and essential. Unfortunately, since the strategic vision was drawn up, we have not heard too much about the roll-out of the so-called DIRS so far. That's why I have three questions. Firstly, Minister, what is the current state of affairs? By what time can that strategic document be presented to Parliament? Secondly, how is cooperation between the various communities and regions involved? Have they already made their contribution to identifying the areas of cooperation and to the responsibilities they wish to assume? Thirdly and finally, Minister, could you give us a hint of the veil? What are the guidelines and levels of ambition set out in the document?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u45	Mr President, within the Defence Staff, the necessary services that will contribute to the preparation of the DIRS were identified and brought together, building on the new cooperation with the Royal Higher Institute of Defence. At the same time, the necessary arrangements were made with the FPS Economy to bring together the working group which will develop the design to the intended strategy. A first approach to the process was developed in community. The aim is to provide the necessary manpower first within the Department of Economics, so that from then on a basic document can be prepared for further discussion. Given the complexity of the domain and the cooperation envisaged, both regional and federal, and with industry representatives, no precise deadline can be set. The aim could be to put this into a more definitive form by mid-2020. A part of the DIRS consists of the follow-up of the vision measure, which was offered in the context of the investment programmes. In view of the urgency of the matter, it was decided to give priority to this matter in relation to the effective completion of the DIRS itself. In this context, a federal consultation platform has also been set up which has already met several times. The aim is also to use the platform to involve the Regions and industry more closely in the preparation of the DIRS itself. Furthermore, under the leadership of certain representative organisations in the industry sector, work is being carried out on the identification of target domains from the point of view of industry, which will be evaluated and possibly integrated into the final DIRS. Since the document itself does not yet exist and the consultations are still in the starting-point, it is not yet possible to give a clear picture of the main lines of action. However, the aim is to achieve a strategy supported by all federal and regional levels, as well as by the Belgian industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I really do think that this is the future, and that is why I regret that it is not there in the present. You say that an inter-federal consultation platform has already been set up, but that hardly any contact has yet been established with the Länder or with industry. I understand, therefore, that there is little you can say about the guidelines. The contacts are still very early, but I hope to be able to believe in your statement that in the middle of next year there will be a more definitive form. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u47	Minister, this question was also drawn up prior to a meeting of the Council of European Defence Ministers on 12 November, on which PESCO was given special attention again as the expansion of cooperation with third countries and the enlargement of 13 new projects were on the agenda. At the same time, this summer, we received some less good reports about our country's position within that cooperation. Our country was an enthusiastic adept of the Permanent Structured Cooperation with 10 projects, but two years after the start of the project the annual European progress report would have given a less positive picture of our participation. Our National Implementation Plan (NIP) scored an insufficient one in four of the five evaluation domains, hence I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Firstly, since only the UK, Denmark and Malta are not part of the cooperation, which third countries does the EU want to expand PESCO? What is the government's position on this file? Secondly, with the addition, the total number of projects would be 47. How will our country vote on the extension of the project? Is the time ripe for a scaling-up or is the Union moving too fast in this respect? Does our country, with the setbacks of the NIP in mind, have the ambition to be part of new projects? If so, which one? Thirdly, can you confirm the poor qualification of the Belgian contribution? What were the four evaluation domains on which our country would have scored an insufficient? Fourthly, what are the possible repercussions of our bad report for further participation in PESCO? When can we expect this form to take place and can Parliament play a role in the recovery of the Belgian PESCO ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u48	Mr Buysrogge, cooperation with third countries is still being discussed by the Member States. No specific countries are a priori endorsed for cooperation. However, specific conditions are imposed on interested third countries. Belgium has a pragmatic attitude focusing on acquiring necessary capacities and addressing the strategic shortcomings. Belgium is therefore open to the participation of third countries in so far as such cooperation adds value to the project and in so far as third countries respect the conditions laid down. In the last wave 13 new PESCO projects were proposed. Belgium is planning to participate in a new PESCO project called EU Collaborative Warfare Capabilities. Belgium also plans to participate as an observer in the following two projects: MAS MCM and the Timely Warning and Interception with Space-based Theater Surveillance (TWISTER). PESCO shall consist of two parts, on the one hand, the projects and, on the other hand, the 20 binding commitments to be reported annually by each participating Member State through the national implementation plan. These 20 commitments are divided into the following five areas: contributions to defence expenditure; harmonisation of available resources and capacities, as well as cooperation to develop new capacities; taking concrete measures to ensure the availability and interoperability of the armed forces; addressing strategic shortfalls or missing capacities; and participation in European capacity programmes within the European Defence Agency. Belgium scored well in the first domain when submitting its last NIP and insufficient in the last four domains listed above. The reason for this was that the PESCO Secretariat expected more detailed data in order to carry out a full assessment. A Member State which does not comply with the binding agreement can theoretically be sanctioned and possibly excluded from the PESCO cooperation. However, on the basis of our previous NIP submitted, no sanctions can be expected. In the meantime, a constructive bilateral meeting was held with the PESCO secretariat to prepare the next NIP. The Belgian defence staff is currently working on the next edition of the NIP. It is therefore essential that future objectives be clearly and concretely reflected this time and that the NIP be adopted at the political level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u49	Thank you for your reply, Minister. A very nice image doesn't give it. So you confirm that our country scored negative for four of the five evaluation domains. Theoretically, that could mean we're flying out, but I understand there's a bilateral consultation going on. It is good to discuss this, but we need to step up our efforts with regard to the Defense Department. That will also be an assignment for the next government. I am afraid that we will not be able to get there with consultation alone. We really need to increase the level of ambition for defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u50	Mr President, Minister, this question was tabled on November 17, but we have not had the opportunity to ask you so far. A few months ago, the U.S. Army received its first F-35 and found many failures. At the beginning of November, the Australian army received its first F-35 and also found many problems, namely, problems with structure, avionics, radar. Given this fact and the high amount of these F-35s, I can only worry. As the purchase has been concluded, we cannot go back. However, it must be noted that the aircraft that was purchased is not a master purchase. Minister, what can you do to ensure that the aircraft that will be provided to us meet the conditions set out in the purchase contract that we signed? What can be done to possibly suspend the arrival of these aircraft until the technical problems which have been mentioned can be solved? Finally, if we fail to obtain aircraft corresponding to the specifications, what can be done to retract?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u51	Minister, I have not yet congratulated you on your new challenge. I'd like to do that now. I will not talk so much about the technical problems. We have already debated this incredibly much in committee. I'll talk about the financial picture. Due to a setback with the dollar rate, the Dutch Defence Department has to pay 158 million euros extra. This can happen, of course, but the result is that other Dutch investments are being put off. So the impact is very large. In the past, the Netherlands put a budgetary fence around the purchase price, which made this impossible. That budgetary fence has been removed by the current government, which has changed the rules of the game and the impact is quite large. The replacement of the frigates, for example, I am not talking about the purchase we are doing together with the Netherlands, which is being postponed for five years. That's pretty spectacular, isn't it? The Dutch Court of Auditors has warned for unpredictable costs in many reports for a longer time. It concluded that risks can be covered by a currency swap. With such a swap, dollars are purchased at an agreed time at a fixed price, so that there is no risk for the buyer if the exchange rate changes. It's some kind of insurance against price increases. But there are other options. For example, when purchasing the F-16, the Netherlands used a construction in which two thirds were paid in dollars and one third in European currency. At that time the price changes were also taken into account, because the purchase was made by a few countries together. Our Court of Auditors is also concerned about the changes in course. I've requested all the documents through the public administration. There are a number of remarkable things in that. What guarantees are included in the contract in this respect? For example, are currency swaps or other constructions used? Are the risks shared with our other partners? From what budget will any currency defaulters be paid upon purchase? If they are to be paid from the F-35 budget, how much margin is foreseen? If that is not the case, where will we get that budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u52	Mr President, Minister, Belgium has decided to purchase 34 F-35 fighter aircraft for a total amount of €3.8 billion. In fact, this price is not fixed in euros but in dollars. The Netherlands, for example, which also purchased 37 of these aircraft, now realizes that small changes in the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro can have a significant impact on the price to be paid for this contract. Thus, the Dutch government announced on 21 November 2019 that it should already spend an additional EUR 150 million. The one-hour flight cost of F-35 and its maintenance costs are also expressed in euros. Therefore, although the total cost for the 30 years of service expected for the F-35 was estimated at EUR 12.5 billion, this amount could actually be much higher. Minister, do you confirm that the exchange rate is the only factor that can cause a price increase? What measures are being taken by the government to manage these possible price increases? In addition, it has been found that these aircraft still have fairly frequent malfunctions during development and testing. Not all of these malfunctions seem to be resolved to date. Is this not likely to increase the cost of these aircraft again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to be able to declare the production of the F-35 as formally in operation, a set of conditions must be met, including the technical maturity of the aircraft and the associated training and support systems and the ability to have an environment in which its behaviour can be simulated in an operational context. Having such a simulation environment called Joint Simulation Environment (JSE) allows to conduct laboratory tests on the capabilities of the F-35 in the face of future threats. Failure to have this JSE does not mean that the F-35 are not mature or that their maturity is delayed. The announcement made by Under-Secretary of Defense Ellen Lord on October 18, 2019 was only about the delay of this JSE and the adjustment of the reporting date for the F-35 transition to production. The Defence was aware of this statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u54	The Joint Program Office (JPO) confirmed that this adjustment had no impact either on the production of the aircraft or mission simulators delivered and to be delivered in the future, or on the validation of the F-35's full capabilities in general. Communications from the United States or Australia regarding the capabilities of the F-35 are not new and are directly related to the configuration of the first series of aircraft delivered. The GPO confirmed that the devices, which will be delivered in mature versions – as is the case for Belgian-controlled devices – will meet all operational requirements. At present, there is no evidence to suggest that the aircraft that will be delivered to Belgium could be operationally unsatisfactory. There is therefore nothing that can justify delaying the delivery of the Belgian F-35 in any way. In summary, the level of operation, the amount of the contract and the delivery schedule for the Belgian F-35A remain unchanged. The first Belgian aircraft will be implemented for pilot training from 2023 on the basis of Luke in the United States. The Belgian F-35 purchase contract was drawn up in dollars. That's not exceptional with the DOD. At the administrative level, it is currently being examined whether it is technically and legally possible to use financial instruments to combat exchange rate risk. The first contacts between the Defence Staff and the Federal Debt Agency date from May 2019. The track of forward purchases of foreign currency is currently being examined. Through such a purchase, one undertakes to supply one currency at another at a fixed exchange rate in the future. According to the European system of accounts, such forward contracts at exchange rates are regarded as financial transactions, i.e. with an economic classification code 8. In this way, the risk of debt can be reduced. One can, in other words, avoid the Treasury having to spend more. On the other hand, the balance of claims will always be valued against the currency of the day, whatever financial instrument is used. Budgetaryly, Defence can only cover itself against risk by taking certain measures, and that is what Defence did by fixing the time of award at a budgetary commission of 5%, calculated on the amount of contract, to cover all fluctuations in the programme. The Treasury Inspectorate assessed that percentage as realistic. In addition, the risk is spread over a period of 12 years. A negative exchange rate today therefore does not mean that there is an adverse exchange rate throughout the contract period. If, over time, it appears that currency fluctuations are changing in the wrong direction and the commission becomes insufficient, measures will be proposed to adjust the budget in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. Everything revolves around the content of the purchase contract and I regret not having the opportunity to consult it. I will probably ask you to consult this contract within the framework of the Military Procurement Committee. It is important that we be aware of the implications of military procurement for such amounts. The deputies, who are the representatives of the Nation, must be able to see these documents which bind the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u56	Minister, you say that it is not an isolated case that is paid in dollars. Of course, that's true, but I can't think of an immediate purchase of that order of magnitude either. It's a huge investment. You say pistes are being investigated. That may be a little late; the contract is signed. It is a good thing that pistes are being investigated, but the question is how far they are still feasible. You say that 5% is realistic to cover the risk. The Court of Auditors obviously has a different opinion on this, because the report clearly shows that it is concerned. The currency fluctuations are, of course, incredibly unpredictable. That might as well not be a problem in the future. It's hard to estimate. I understand that if there is a problem, the resources will not come from the F-35 dossier itself but will be at the expense of other capacities. That would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. In view of what happened in Holland, your answers do not satisfy us. These are exorbitant sums. When we are told that even if there is an additional cost, this remains realistic, we are putting this in parallel with the unrealistic things that the outgoing government announced when it came to social emergency. I support my colleague who wants transparency in order to know the amount that will eventually be allocated to this purchase.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic078x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a happy year. Mr Peetermans, I wish you a pleasant retirement and a pleasant future.
