ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (IFDH) was published in the Belgian Monitor on 21 June 2019, shortly after the elections. Different elements may raise questions about its implementation and operation. Article 11 concerning the composition and renewal of the Board of Directors has come to my attention. This article stipulates that the twelve members of the Administrative Board (AC) are drawn "in particular" from the academic, judicial, civil society and social partners. The law provides that each category must be represented with a maximum of four members for each of them. Every two years, one third of the board of directors shall be renewed. The law provides for a draw of lots for the first two renewals, after two and four years. The terms of office of the directors are set at six years. Minister, these are my questions. Since the appointment of the GC members is the result of a weighting, do you not think that allowing additional categories adds complexity to the designation? I come back here on the "in particular". The renewal provides for a drawing of lots, a kind of shortened mandate. Will it count as a full mandate? In other words, these agents will only be able to sit 2+6 (8 years) or 4+6 (10 years)?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, the purpose of the Act is to obtain a representation of society within the Institute that is as pluralistic as possible. The legislator has therefore provided for a non-exhaustive list of occupational categories. The House of Representatives is responsible for ensuring the balance between the different profiles of candidates, respecting the representativeness of each occupational category. With respect to the renewal of the term of office of the members of the Board, the legislator made no distinction as to whether the term of office was four, two or six years. The term of office shall therefore be renewable once, regardless of the duration of that term. The sectoral bodies for the protection and promotion of human rights have not been listed in an exhaustive list. It is clear from the parliamentary work that the legislator is targeting in particular the existing institutions that are members of the joint consultation platform. In addition, the Explanatory Memorandum states that the list of such bodies cannot exclude others that may still be created or associated with the said platform. The Act was intended to ensure full coverage of human rights at the federal level, providing for residual jurisdiction over all matters outside the competence of existing sectoral bodies. In general, since the Institute is an organ of Parliament, it seems difficult for me to delegate to the King such fundamental aspects that affect the definition of its residual powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u3	Minister, you answered both questions. The second one will deserve rest. It's okay, it's okay. Thank you for your answers. I understand that the proposed text uses explanatory statements to frame the renewal of mandates. A term of office has been set aside for a full term of office. You do not wish to define today the sectoral bodies for the promotion and protection of human rights in a royal decree. That's a little too bad. One can see that there are incompatibilities for a director of a sectoral body. The calls for applications will be complex, but this may be the wealth of the exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u4	The combined questions Nos 55001103C and 55001104C of myself are converted into written questions. With the Minister's permission, I'll take the answer with me. Mr Ravyts is not here and has not reported anything. His question No. 55001110C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u5	Madam President, Minister, in a very well-documented paper, the weekly Paris Match Belgium returns this week to the Dubai Papers file, under the title: "Dive to the heart of an incredible network of complicity in Belgium". I hope you've read it: it's edifying. If the information published is correct, we find ourselves faced with a new example of large-scale fraud, attesting that, in order to escape the tax system, some wealthy taxpayers benefit from illegal tax arrangements. In this case, in addition to the main suspect, business lawyers play an active role as pull-backs and, therefore, as accomplices to fraudsters. A former magistrate is also quoted. In addition, one of the appointed lawyers, particularly active in these assemblies, is also an alternate adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal. These are, of course, very serious facts which, given the credibility of the documents on which this article is based, require a strong reaction from the prosecutor's office or even the legislator. Indeed, should I remind you that the commission of inquiry into the major tax fraud recommended a specific sanction scheme for lawyers who are complicit in fraud and the termination of the cumulation between the duties of lawyer and substitute judge. In September, the Public Prosecutor's Office had reported on the existence of judicial information and had indicated that a meeting would soon be held with the French National Financial Prosecutor's Office, which, thanks to a whistleblower, had the original documents available. In my view, Belgium cannot ignore such a source, not only in order to prosecute potential perpetrators and accomplices of fraud, but also to determine the legal solutions to be taken to avoid the use of such a mechanism, which is very expensive for public finances. Minister, can you indicate the status of this judicial information? What is the department responsible for this investigation? Could the meeting between the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office and the French National Financial Prosecutor's Office be held? Have any useful documents been sent to the Belgian investigators? Are other initiatives or requests expected as part of this judicial cooperation? Given this collaboration and the precise information published by Paris Match, has an investigating judge been appointed in this case? In view of the seriousness of the facts, is it not appropriate to suspend one of the lawyers mentioned in this case as an alternate adviser to the Brussels Court of Appeal? Should we not, more generally, call into question this system of substitute counsellors, leading some to combine functions that are difficult to reconcile? It is difficult to accept that someone organises illegal tax schemes and acts as an alternate judge. That is, in any case, our conviction. Given the nature of this file, I would ask you for exemplary treatment, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the Dubai Papers contain 160,000 files which expose the secrets of an international financial network, suspected of tax fraud, and which have been operating between Belgium, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates for 25 years. These documents provide new information on the case of the Helin group, led by the Belgian prince Henri de Croÿ, suspected of being at the heart of a network of tax fraud and money laundering. As a reminder, in 2015, the Liège Court of Appeal acquitted him, considering that "the montages of several tens of millions of euros came from tax optimisation rather than tax fraud". In these computer listings, the names of other Belgian personalities appear: business lawyers Thierry Afschrift and Arnaud Jansen as well as former magistrate Jean Lotz. This exceptional wealth of information makes it possible to decipher for the first time from inside the functioning of a very closed circle composed mainly of entrepreneurs and wealthy heirs. Dubai Papers suggest that it cannot be simply tax engineering. Belgium opened judicial information at the beginning of December in order to obtain the documents at the hands of the magistrates of the national financial prosecutor's office in Paris, in order to shed light on the sinuous meanderings of large-scale financial crime networks. Minister, have any contacts been made with the French national financial prosecutor's office? Were the documents transmitted to the Belgian criminal justice system? If the transmission has not yet taken place or is incomplete, when will it be complete? Will a detailed and thorough investigation take place? What effective investigative capacity have been allocated to this case? Is this file going to be investigated? Will the Department of Finance become a civil party? Will the alternate judge Afschrift be suspended from his judicial duties during the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the press, through Paris Match, has published a particularly well-documented article on the Dubai Papers file. If this information is correct, it is once again a scandal of fraud on a large scale, with this time, according to the article, the involvement of Belgian business lawyers, in particular. As in other large-scale cases, it is obvious that the role sometimes played by some lawyers is problematic. For this reason, the PS Group wishes to review the sanctions mechanisms for fraud facilitators, and in particular for certain advice. Mr Minister, we learn from the article that the French national financial prosecutor has documents clearly transmitted by a whistleblower. Could you tell us if there are any contacts between the French national financial prosecutor's office and the Belgian justice system? Have you received the documents transmitted by the whistleblower? Is the case under investigation? Has a judge been appointed? Are members of the financial police assigned to this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Gilkinet, Boukili and Laaouej, the Federal Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office sent a European investigation decision to the national financial prosecutor's office in order to obtain copies of the relevant documents concerning organisations and customers. The Central Office for Combating Economic and Financial Crime is in charge of this investigation and will deal with this matter as a matter of priority. A detailed and in-depth investigation will therefore be carried out. No investigating judge has been appointed. Members of the Central Office are assigned to deal with this matter. A federal magistrate travelled to Paris and a meeting took place on 13 September 2019 in the premises of the national financial prosecutor's office. The relevant documents will be transmitted to the Belgian judicial authorities, as soon as a computer expert can isolate all information concerning Belgium. It is up to the Minister of Finance to answer the question as to whether the Department of Finance intends to become a civil party. With regard to the question calling into question the system of substitute advisers, I can inform you that the Judicial Code provides that the disciplinary authority may suspend a judge from his or her duties by order, in the interest of the service, when he or she is prosecuted for a crime or offence or when he or she is prosecuted on a disciplinary basis. In the case of an additional or alternate adviser, the disciplinary authority shall be the first president of its Court of Appeal. As for the system of alternate councillors, the Act of 23 May 2019 made changes to the system of alternate magistrates. The Judicial Code is supplemented by provisions aimed at strengthening requirements for the recruitment and functioning of judges and alternate advisers. For example, ethics training is made mandatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u9	Mr Minister, I take note of the fact that the file is progressing, that a meeting took place in Paris, that an application for judicial cooperation has been submitted, that documents will be transmitted, that the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption is in charge of the file. That is what is related to the approximately satisfactory part of your response. But I will only be able to satisfy myself fully if sufficient resources are devoted to this investigation. Indeed, it is well known that investigators responsible for this type of case have too few human resources. As to whether the FPS Finance and Minister De Croo will be a civil party, I have tabled a question on this subject, hoping that the Minister will act. With regard to the question of the status of the alternate judge cited in this case – this is not the first time that this lawyer has been mentioned – I cannot content myself with your answer which states the possibility for the president of the Court of Appeal to suspend him. I would like you to use your power of injunction to ask him to do so. When one knows the character, it is rather laughable to hide behind a training in ethics because I do not think that ethics is appropriate for him. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of two recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on major tax fraud cases dated 7 May 2019. The first is to introduce an increased penalty for financial and tax consultants, including lawyers, who play a role in tax fraud, in particular by imagining fraudulent schemes. This legal framework does not exist and it is very damaging. The second recommendation relates to the introduction of a functional incompatibility regime for judges and alternate advisers. In my opinion, the function of judge is sufficiently important in a society, a democracy not to be combined with that of lawyer and even more so with that of business lawyer complicit in tax schemes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u10	Minister, here we are faced with a fairly general problem, namely the problem of facilitators, whether they be lawyers, tax advisors, accountants, whatever. The question before us is whether, beyond ethics, which implies moral norms with possible accountability to a professional order, the legislator should not seize the question by asking itself whether, in substance, there is no form of complicity, in other words, if there is not, in the criminal qualifications in our legal body, the need to be able to grasp this kind of phenomenon. In large tax fraud cases, unless they are stakeholders and it is proven that they have a part of the loot, it is rare to see these people be held accountable to Justice. We had this reflection at the time of the special commission and the commission of inquiry on Panama Papers. We had tabled a number of proposals. There was no unanimity. You have to say it. But I believe that the debate is still whole. I understand that the problem is known to the public prosecutor in Belgium and that he is going to deal with it. Mr. Minister of Justice, it would be desirable for you to be able to ensure that, in one way or another, Justice, while respecting the separation of powers, is well aware of this type of large-scale financial crime, in order to continue to make it a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear an investigation is under way. I hope that it will shed light on this "self-society" that prevails in a certain political-economic sphere and put an end to this opacity that surrounds large-scale financial crime. Minister, we expect you or your administration to use your means or power in your hands to take the initiative in dealing with this financial crime and, of course, in the context of the separation of powers. You have several options to take initiatives and not be willing to deal with this crime. Thanks to your power of injunction, you have the possibility to activate certain elements to speed up. There is also the whole question of how to conduct and complete this investigation. The competent authorities must have the necessary means to ensure that such investigations are carried out and that financial criminals or facilitators can be punished in a manner commensurate with their crime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Karin Jiroflée is hereby repealed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej's 55001192C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u13	Minister, it is a strange question at these times, because in Denmark 10,700 criminal convictions are being reviewed and it has been established that fundamental errors have been made since 2012 in locating the crime scene. Lawyers, investigators and judges who have assumed that the person was at the scene of the crime no longer have that certainty. At the moment, as with DNA evidence, this is something they trusted blindly in the investigation and in the delivery of evidence. Our operators operate on the same technology as those in Denmark. The forensic software is also often similar. Minister, I have five questions. Firstly, do we have information from Denmark on the extent of the technical causes of the problem? Secondly, has the operators checked with us whether the same problems appear here? Thirdly, are you aware of the problem and will you recommend research to check whether the same problems have occurred in Belgium? Fourthly, is there consultation at European level? Fifthly, is there a need for an investigation into whether telephone data obtained for criminal offences from the problem countries have been used here and could therefore cause problems here too?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u14	Mr Crombez, contacts between the federal police and their Danish homologs have been planned in order to better understand the Danish situation. I have no reason to believe at this time that there would be an important problem for Belgian criminal law. Like the police and the prosecution, I remain attentive to developments and to the information that will be communicated by Denmark and, where appropriate, by other States. The control in Belgium of the quality of information provided by the operators in criminal matters is a continuous process. Within the federal police, a specific service called NTSU-CTIF has been instructed to maintain contacts with the telecommunications operators and detect the possible technical problems. In order to improve the quality of the information transmitted, regular meetings with the telecommunications operators and with the BIPT are organised. The technical standards relating to the collection and transmission of the data shall be determined by royal decree. Those standards should ensure that the transmitted information is unambiguous and qualitative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the introduction to my question, I said that this question may be somewhat strange or appalling, given the possible impact. In Denmark, for example, 10,700 criminal convictions are being reviewed and the use of telecom data is being put on hold, which would gradually become an important part of the evidence. I am about to raise an oral question on the FTFs, and I suspect that telecom data is even the most reasonable way of gathering evidence in this respect. I understand from your answer that we are not really sure at the moment; I do not mean that negatively. Contacts are planned with the Danish homologs. We work on the same technologies. In Denmark, the problem has been very well known for several weeks and it is large. I will certainly ask follow-up questions about this. After all, it would be a pity if we reacted too late or later than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u16	Madam President, Minister, in his communication the prosecutor refers to the low penalties for FTFs and, at the same time, puts the discussion of the Court of Assists on the table again. During the hearings held in the Foreign Affairs Committee on the security situation of the prison camps in Northern Syria, the prosecutor also said that the main problem is the taking of evidence. Much debate has already taken place on this subject because every criminal record stands or falls with it. Minister, I have four questions. Firstly, with regard to the taking of evidence, we are working with the United Nations, the so-called International Impartial and Independent Mechanism. This system is run by a French prosecutor gathering evidence. We would have promised EUR 1.6 million to support that system. What has it done in concrete terms for our country in the field of evidence against FTFs? Secondly, the prosecutor also said that surveyors should be sent on the spot as soon as possible. Is that part of the plan? If so, when will they be sent out? Thirdly, if we succeed in proving more serious crimes than participating in terrorist activities, those trials will have to take place in the Court of Assistes, the link that was established in the discussion on evidence. In Brussels there are four magistrates who can chair the court of assistants. Two of them will be working full-time on the attacks of March 22nd. What steps have you already taken to provide the necessary capacity? If there is evidence and there are trials, then we will need more capacity, especially in view of the ongoing process of the attacks on 22 March. Fourthly, in the absence of evidence, certain FTFs will at most be able to be convicted of the crime of participating in terrorist activities. The debate is about the fact that the maximum penalty for this is only five years. If we implement the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and extend the posting to all terrorist offences, which, in addition to the recommendations, we have adopted by means of a wide-ranging resolution, then the court may decide for all terrorist offences that the FTFs will still be made available to the criminal execution court after five years and may thus be deprived of their freedom for longer. This contrasts with an earlier theorem of yours, in which you wanted to abolish the TBS, the posting. My question is therefore whether you still feel that way. Why do you want to abolish the posting? If the problem is repeated and the penalty for correction should not exceed five years, will the whole analysis of the post-attacks not remain valid? Can the provision of services not constitute the legal framework allowing the follow-up and control of terrorist criminals? Do you stand by your opinion and continue to plead for the abolition of the system of posting? Or do you think that in certain circumstances it should remain a possible slope?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u17	Madam President, Mr Crombez, when it comes to the United Nations mechanism, cooperation is governed by the very recent law of 5 May 2019. The federal prosecutor has questioned this mechanism in two different cases relating to Belgian suspects. At the moment, no evidence could be provided. I have received no specific request from the judicial authorities to send Belgian researchers to Syria. Such an approach would, moreover, create major difficulties, both legally and in terms of security. From recent contacts with the federal prosecutor, following his intervention in Parliament, I understand that he wishes to investigate the possibility of sending researchers to a neighbouring country to, for example, bring witnesses and question them. It is a new idea that needs to be discussed further. When it comes to Belgian judgments and the question of correcting them, I repeat that Belgium has a very high degree of conviction in relation to the Foreign Fighters who have left for Syria. It is almost always subject to effective prison sentences, while in other European countries it is sometimes not even possible to prosecute similar behaviours. The difficulty is that, in most cases, these things have to be corrected. The reason is a transversal problem that affects all the files in which crimes have been committed. It is a question of the future of the Court of Assists. No one can blame me for not doing everything in my power to solve this problem during the previous legislature. The debate largely transcends the subject of terrorism and does not limit itself to a question of the number of magistrates. On this last point, by the way, the law of 5 February 2016 has extended the group of potential candidates for the position of chairman of an Assenhof. The Court has also made use of this. As far as the posting is concerned, I think there are three possibilities. The proposal for a new penal code provides for higher main penalties for such offences. The argument for no longer preventing the posting of the criminal execution court as an additional penalty is fully justified in the explanatory statement and is based on the views of the Expert Committee on Criminal Law. As decided in the Committee on Justice this morning, the discussions on this proposal will continue in the next few weeks. A second possibility, apart from the abolition, is to maintain the current system, where the court of the first instance offers the court of the first instance the possibility of using the posting at a later stage in the execution of the sentence. That is therefore a matter for the court of the bottom line. A third possibility is to make the posting available to the criminal execution judge only, even if the court at the bottom did not mention it. I assume that these three possibilities will be taken into account in the course of the discussions. I myself joined the experts' proposal, which was retained in the final draft law on criminal law, but I said in plenary that I was open to discussion on this subject in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. This debate should take up a great deal of our time, given the scale of this problem. At the moment, according to the follow-up report, 150 people are still undestined. In addition, dozens of people are either in the region, in safe or unsafe areas, and many are already back in Belgium. The main question is this one about a system for monitoring and monitoring the problems of the Foreign Fighters and the homegrown fighters. We note that no one has an answer to that today, which is appalling. I understand that, within the framework of the United Nations, two questions were asked by the federal prosecutor, but this has not yet produced any evidence. At this stage, that almost looks like a dead end. It's not gonna work. Maybe there'll be another unexpected development. If the objective on which everyone agrees is to guarantee safety here, then a very close system of follow-up and monitoring should be put in place. I asked for this because I think the discussion on posting is taking too long. Following and in the wake of the attacks, Kamerbreed was told that the posting should certainly be used. It is about people who are simply released and disappear from the radar in Belgium in no time, in order to resume their radicalisation activities. That's appalling. The posting may be very far-reaching, but that is at least an answer to the observation that we are not in control and, more importantly, that no other answers are being given at the moment to get things under control. We have to come back to this matter often enough, no matter what happens now. However, there is no response to the urgency, given the negative answer to the question of whether we can track, locate and control all the Terrorist Fighters, both homegrown and foreign. This issue should be given the highest urgency, especially in view of the progress made with the other systems. I'd like to talk briefly about assists. The opinions of the supporters and alleymen of assists differ, which makes the debate fascinating. This too is an important knot to cut through in the coming months, as both arguments have pro and counter their value. Assuming that there is an increase in assist cases due to the need to bring Foreign Terrorist Fighters to justice, the necessary capacity will have to be provided for this. Many things are being corrected, but if such matters are to be avoided before the Court of Assists, then there must be capacity. At the moment when the need arises, the question remains as to how quickly that demand can be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u19	Minister, this is my first question to you about football. In the latest KAA Gent newsletter to its supporters, the offer to walk a day along the trail of the players is available. The prerequisite for this is to place a bet on the Napoleon Games website of at least 1 euro. I refer to the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 because you have made it very clear in recent years that you want to limit unbridled gambling, because there is too much social outburst by gambling. That Royal Decree imposed restrictive measures on the advertising of online gambling. The motive there was certainly also the protection of minors. It expressly provides that no advertising may be made 15 minutes before and 15 minutes after a programme specifically aimed at children or minors and that no gambling advertising may be made on sports equipment and equipment of sports teams with minors. That is why they have now put it on the sweaters of the first team of Club Bruges, which players are mainly not underage. We have already indicated at that time that these measures probably do not go far enough. Online gambling advertising is continuously present in the living world of minors. As soon as they go on the Internet or watch television, they will be confronted with it anyway. The amount of advertising has also increased massively and research shows that advertising not only normalises gambling but has become almost self-evident to young people as well. The Supreme Health Council is calling for a ban on advertising. Walking with a football player is clearly aimed at minors. The fact that they have to take a bet at Napoleon Games for a fee before they can see this dream come true even goes one step further than just advertising. Minister, is this kind of practice allowed within the limits of the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018? The Royal Decree states that it is prohibited to target persons who are not allowed to gamble. How do you feel about linking a bonus to gambling? On the one hand there is advertising, but on the other hand there is also a gift, especially walking with a player. Was an investigation of this practice initiated by the Gaming Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u20	Mr Crombez, the action you mentioned is subject to the provisions of the Royal Decree because it refers to online gambling. The Gaming Commission saw clear violations of the Royal Decree and thus opened an investigation into the practice. Offering bonuses includes several dangers for the player. First, there is a chance that new players will be encouraged to start gambling or existing players to start gambling again. In addition, players can be misled by handling round playing conditions. For these reasons, the offer of these bonuses was regulated. For example, the amount of bonuses that an operator can offer to a player per month is limited to 275 euros. In addition, operators may not offer free game participations or bonuses in any form except on their own site.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u21	Minister, it is a good thing that the Gaming Commission suspects that the limits of the provisions in the Royal Decree were exceeded and that an investigation has been carried out. I look forward to the results. I have indeed put the emphasis on linking the bonuses, which are aimed at attracting very young and new players. We look forward to the research, especially with regard to the bonuses or gifts that are linked to placing the gamble itself. We definitely need to see if the limits of the KB are strict enough. Let's wait and see if we can have the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic041x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament 50501215C of myself is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 5501223C by Mrs Gabriels and 5501224C by Mrs De Wit are postponed.
