ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u1	Mrs. Taquin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u2	Mr Minister, at the beginning of July we were shocked by press reports on polluted water, due to lead water pipes, in a number of political azerns in Brussels. I would like to make some abstraction of the specific dossier. I have tabled a written question to ask whether the presence of lead water pipes in a building managed by the Government of the Buildings is a one-off situation. The answer was somewhat consternation for me anyway. There is no overview, there is no register. There have been data on asbestos for 20 years, but apparently not on lead water pipes. You said that the proposal is to conclude a framework agreement to establish a register of risk zones. Mr Minister, has progress been made on the framework agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u3	Mr President, if you don't mind, I am at the same time responding to Mrs Taquin's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u4	Mrs. Taquin is not here. She didn't ask her question. It's up to you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u5	Yes, but the questions were attached. If Mr. Ravyts wishes, I can instantly translate the French-speaking answer into Dutch, with a few possible quiucs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u6	You will do this very well, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u7	Since June 2019, the Government of the Buildings has taken note of the results of an analysis of the water that the Brussels water company VIVAQUA had done, in June 2019, at the request of the federal police in the Geruzet barracks, the Witte de Haelen barracks and the Crown Quarter of the federal police in Brussels, as employees' employer. The results show that the water for the three sites is generally of good quality, but for a number of measurement points values were set above the standards. As an employer of local personnel, the federal police have taken immediate protective measures. For example, posters were placed at the water points where higher values were measured, and bottled water was made available. It was therefore immediately ensured that the staff had access at all times to drinking water which meets all standards. In consultation with the federal police, the Buildings Regie has then proposed a procedure to identify the problematic water pipes per building and floor by means of additional tests in the complexes of the Witte de Haelen and Geruzet. Afterwards, the necessary adjustments to those sections of the pipeline network may be evaluated. The possible replacement of lead water pipes should be analysed, taking into account potentially significant works, with an impact on the floors, walls and structures of the building. That analysis will be carried out shortly. There will also be a register of the federal building heritage, so that there is a clear overview of complexes that may still contain old lead pipes. This is the basis for a more detailed analysis of the buildings concerned. In the case of major renovations, the pipeline network is of course always dealt with. For the answer to the question about the medical investigations, I have to refer you to the Minister responsible for the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I hope that the proposed land register of the buildings providing statistical data will be made available as soon as possible. I would not like to see reports of lead water pipes re-emerging in the federal heritage in a few months' time. I hope everyone takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u9	The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5500005C by Mrs De Wit, but she is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I shall begin with a brief history review, even though I was not there myself. Your predecessor, Mr Jambon, once replied to a parliamentary question that he was fond of the idea of partial opening up of the royal domain of Laeken. At that time, he indicated that it should be legal and that consultation with the royal family is necessary. In the meantime, it has been four years since he gave that answer. He then announced a study. We understand that this study would have been carried out by now. I say we should be, because we do not have the study. You can already feel my question coming. What is your position on this partial opening? Can you agree with what your predecessor has ever said here? Is this study available and is it available to us?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u11	Mr President, it may be a good chance of timing. On this day, we talk a lot about the partial opening of the Laeken estate to the public. This draft has already been tabled by Ecolo and Groen in the last parliamentary term, a motion for a resolution that we have put to the Federal Parliament. We have carried the same to the Brussels Regional Parliament. This morning we presented it again in the Committee on the Interior. In recent years, we had had the impression that your predecessor, Mr.Jambon, who had the supervision of the Régie des Bâtiments, had given answers. He had commissioned a study but I am not aware of the results of this study; I do not know if it exists. Indeed, we believe that it is essential to move forward on this issue, because in our view it has only advantages: to offer more green space to citizens in a place that is very lacking in this area of Brussels so that they can enjoy a space that is two and a half times the wood of the Cambre. To make things clear, we're just asking for a party to be open to the public. We also believe that this should be done in a concerted, constructive manner, in discussion and dialogue with the royal family, with the Régie des Bâtiments, with the Royal Donation. All these elements are important to us, but once again, we see only benefits for the quality of life of the citizens – and of the whole country, all those who will be able to access them will be delighted given the size of this territory – and for the royal family, because such a gesture – in my opinion – would be very much appreciated by our fellow citizens. This was the case in Norway, where the royal family opened a very important park in Oslo. It is in this context, Minister, that I ask you the following questions. What about the study announced by Minister Jambon and requested from the Régie des Bâtiments for the legal analysis of the case in order to complete this partial opening of the Laeken estate, especially for the whole security aspect? Do you think it's an interesting idea yourself? Because Minister Jambon had already spoken out in favour of this idea, but I wanted to know if you shared that view. For, of course, if there is the political will to move forward, it is always easier. And I wanted to see what you were planning to do following the analysis done by the Régie des Bâtiments. Do you also intend to contact the Royal Donation which is also co-owner of this park with the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u12	Mr Verduyckt, Mr Vanden Burre, the Government of the Buildings has looked at a number of legal aspects relating to the royal domain. This has shown that the Regie itself is not competent to make a decision on this matter. The provision of Laeken Castle at the service of the Head of State derives directly from the constitutional and legal provisions, which go beyond the scope of the Régie des Bâtiments. I am thinking in particular of the law of 27 November 2013 establishing the civil list for the duration of King Philip's reign. The provision of more information therefore does not seem appropriate, having regard to the Law of 11 April 1994 on the disclosure of administrative information and in particular the first paragraph of Article 6 (3) of that Law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u13	Mr President, Minister, that was a very short answer which, of course, we cannot handle. We love the idea, too. However, it is still unclear to me whether a study was carried out on this subject or whether or not it was simply checked whether it is possible or not. In any case, we will continue to try to continue on this path. It would be a pity that this could not be considered in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u14	Mr Minister, I still wish that this legal analysis could be sent to the committee. I don't know if it's possible, but I think that would be interesting. Indeed, even if you give some elements, you have to be able to dig a little further. I understand that this is mainly a matter of political will and discussion. Mr President, I would therefore like to ask officially whether the Minister can send us these documents since they are documents from the Régie des Bâtiments and therefore from a public institution. I also wish I had heard the minister's opinion. That was in fact part of my question, but the minister did not answer that point. I repeat, I believe that this is primarily a matter of political will and dialogue. I think that we should not force things or move too fast, but, on the other hand, we are asking for a real substantive discussion on this because, in our view, there are only positive aspects, including for the royal family. That's our conviction. Can we have this analysis? We will continue to work on the motion for a resolution. We will also be asking for a whole series of opinions not only from the Régie but also from other institutions. I think it's important to continue the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u15	I assume the Minister has heard the request regarding the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u16	Yes, I think I know of my memories in Finance, that the civilian list is generally a matter for the Minister of Finance. I am therefore not the person, not even as Minister of Justice or Minister of the Régie, to whom you should address this matter. However, I will check in order to be able to answer you more exactly one more time or by e-mail, if I may, with Mr Veduyckt and Mr Veduyckt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u17	Question No 55000192 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u18	Mr President, I had already asked for it to be withdrawn in August and again yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u19	Don't worry, Mrs. Jadin. Your question No 55000192C is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u20	Minister, you said two weeks ago that you would answer questions about the accounts today. You are of course familiar with the 176th book of the Court of Auditors on the 2018 accounts of a number of administrative services with accounting autonomy and administrative public institutions. Last week, however, in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, a number of colleagues were concerned about unapproved accounts. There were also a number of unsubmitted or unsubstantiated accounts of the Government of the Buildings. There are structural problems, Minister. There is neither an adapted accounting software nor an adapted accounting plan. Moreover, there is insufficient accounting staff. Mr Fridays mentioned this shortage of staff, but he did not go into detail. The implementation of certain measures that impose themselves is quite urgent because the accounts of the Regie must be integrated into the federal state's financial statements. The major shortcomings in those accounts of the Regie can have a negative impact on the reliability of the entire financial statements of the federal state. In the Court of Auditors' report, there are six pages that are quite destructive. I have no doubt that Mr Vanden Burre will complement my speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u21	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, I will gather my two questions. As has been said, we had a hearing involving Minister Geens and Mr. Vrijdaghs, the deputy head, on a specific file, but the subject was extended to a series of deficiencies in the Régie. We have obtained information on an action plan. I would like to go back to a few points, about which I believe we have not really had a satisfactory answer. I am leaving from the 176th Court of Auditors Paper, in which I point out that the accounts for 2018 have not yet been entered and that the accounts for 2015 to 2017 have not been validated. The lack of accounting personnel is cited, along with an outdated chart of accounts and outdated accounting software, which is being updated. My first question is first of all about the 2015-2017 accounts. What is their impact on the reliability of all federal accounts? This is the debate we had a few days ago with Mrs Wilmès. No one really had the answer. Let me turn to the shortcomings in the operation of the Régie des Bâtiments. As my colleague has said, a new computer system is expected to come into being in January 2020. Will that really be the case? Will this chart of accounts come into being and replace the one of 1988? Does the SPF BOSA, which supports the Régie des Bâtiments, believe that the deadline can be met? My next question relates to the details of the public procurement aimed at valuing the Régie's real estate portfolio. This deal was announced by you and by Mr Vrijdaghs at the hearing. Is this valuation limited to a single accounting year? Will this public procurement be limited to valuing the portfolio or will it strengthen the internal services concerned of the Régie, the aim being that the internal services can carry out this valuation themselves the next time without having to resort to a consultant or an external auditor? In addition, in the Cahier de la Court of Auditors, external consultants and the Federal Audit Service are referred to (page 85). What were the results of these audits? Can they be passed on to the members of the commission? We do not have access to the reports of the external consultants, unlike the audits of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u22	Mr Vanden Burre, Mr Ravyts, the findings of the Court of Auditors relate to the past. The Regie has always taken these comments and recommendations to heart and taken the necessary actions to meet them. The fact that the Court of Auditors has to repeat these comments in the new report is mainly due to the fact that time is needed to implement structural measures. This concerns in particular the start-up of the Finance as a service project or FAAS. FAAS is a new accounting package in line with the objectives of the 2014-2019 government agreement. It is also one of the priority objectives set by the Minister for the Budget to improve the application of the Law of 22 May 2003, to improve the reliability of the accounting report and financial reporting and to comply with the Court's observations and recommendations. In order to achieve these objectives, the FAAS project aims, inter alia, to set up a clear financial reporting with comprehensive analytical capabilities, including monitoring outstanding claims, efficient consolidation throughout the federal government, enabling the Regie to speed up the year-round closure and to make it easier for the Court of Auditors to certify the consolidated financial statements. The Régie des Bâtiments serves as a pilot institution in the FAAS project and will introduce the new accounting program on January 1, 2020. All preparations have been completed and financial service staff have been trained for this purpose. This service will benefit from five additional attachés. The recruitment authorization for this purpose was given in the framework of the 2019 Staff Plan. On the occasion of the introduction of the new accounting software as of January 1, 2020, the Régie is in the process of revising the existing rules on valuation and accounting. If necessary, these rules will be adapted in consultation with the Court of Auditors. The public contract relating to the valuation of the property portfolio was awarded to PricewaterhouseCoopers in August 2019. This contract is currently in progress and aims to establish, on the one hand, the market value of the federal government's property and, on the other hand, the estimated market rental value for the entire portfolio under management by the Regie. With regard to the remark on the control of the organisation, this aspect has also been resolved internally by setting up the Internal Control Unit. This unit will focus on improving the implementation and follow-up of recommendations made following several audits, including that of the federal body of the Finance Inspectorate on the State Administrative City, which has already been distributed among the members of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. In addition, the Internal Control Unit will continue to optimize working methods, awareness-raising and training on process description, fraud prevention, etc. With regard to the redesign, several software packages, such as the above-mentioned accounting software, the building occupancy tracking system, the Office 365 programme, a central digital file for all employees, etc., were introduced under the coordination of the Office of Transformation. In addition, an appropriate personnel policy is in place to increase staff arrivals through recruitment, removal of score, introduction of a new organizational chart, etc. As regards the transformation of the Régie des Bâtiments into a public limited company under public law, I refer you, Mr Vanden Burre, to my reply in this respect given in the Committee on Mobility of 2 October last, during our discussion on the report on the Administrative City of the State. I can confirm that the appointed consultants drafted a bill in consultation with the steering committees. This project is being finalized in order to allow our successors to express their views on this subject, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. It is indeed a work in progress, but the proof of the pudding is in the eating. The account of the Government of the Buildings was not submitted in good time, in accordance with the regulations, which means that the account of this institution is not included in the relevant draft law. I hope that these dysfunctions will not repeat themselves over the next few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u24	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. We will follow the situation closely. I'm not going to comment on every answer you've given. It will be necessary to look at the use and the accounts to be published and the valuations to be made. I noted another element, but I did not address it in my question. It concerns the Régie's 2018-2022 investment plan. Would it be possible to obtain the document? This was discussed during the hearings. Could the members of the commission receive it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u25	This is a call from the foot that is probably heard by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u26	Mr President, on August 4th a private event took place under the connotation "dance tea", which seems at first glance rather friendly. But it was organized in Tervuren Park, opposite the Royal Museum of Central Africa. The organizers of the event communicated via social media – via Facebook – a dress code that caused controversy. Indeed, the dress code is "vaudou, tribal, ethnic, sape". The Facebook event invites to come dressed – and I quote – "like Africans". We have all the colorful impressions, different types of disguises and others. But at the end of the evening, several photos circulated on social networks, and one could also clearly see a person disguised as a colonist or another grime in black, African. These images were quite controversial and we find them clearly shocking. In response to the controversy, the AfricaMuseum announced that it was working on a Charter of Ethics and acknowledged that it had made an error of judgment in authorizing this event, which, I recall, was private. As you know, Tervuren Park depends on the Régie des Bâtiments. How was the latter informed of the event? Was it assessed before being accepted? Was the Régie aware of a risk of controversy, since this dancing tea was going to contribute to the strengthening of stereotypes and prejudices relating to the late period of colonization and aimed at our fellow citizens whose origins come from former colonized countries? Is the Régie also working to establish such an ethical charter to avoid further controversy caused by private events in Tervuren Park? Finally, does the Régie observe a code of conduct relating to the rental of the property it owns?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u27	Mr Vanden Burre, in 2013 and 2017, a dancing tea had already been organized in Tervuren Park with the permission of the Régie des Bâtiments and the agreement of the Royal Museum of Central Africa. For these events, no problems had been identified. In September 2018, permission to organize an event in Tervuren was again sought from the Régie. Unlike previous requests, this event was to be held, not in the park itself, but on the terrace of the Royal Museum of Central Africa, which is part of the private spaces available to the Museum. That is why the Régie had redirected the organiser to this institution. Most recently, the Régie has developed a clear procedure for organizing events. Each application is evaluated. Under no circumstances can an event convey a political message, even if it is hidden or disguised. Nor can there be any question of using stereotypes or caricatures. Through this approach, the Régie hopes to exercise more control over requests for events.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u28	Minister, thank you. I think that the existence of such a document is a very good thing for future events. The reactions were very strong, rightly, following the distribution of photos on social networks, especially on Facebook. We must be able to put in place clear rules so that in the future this site can still be used, but without harming some of our fellow citizens and without pointing to prejudice or injuring behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u29	Mr President, Minister, I have tabled this question following a press article in Het Nieuwsblad dated 16 August. The fact that my oral question has had some wanderings through the Committee on Justice has led me to ask a question that has lost some topical value. My question concerns the situation at the FPC in Ghent, on which you have had several parliamentary questions in the past. I do not object in principle to the way in which this institution is operated, but there appear to be persistently long-term infrastructure deficiencies which are at risk of becoming problematic for the safety of personnel. In particular, it concerns defective security doors in a working environment with high-risk patients. Indeed, at the FPC in Ghent there are about 270 patients with mental disorders who have committed criminal offences. The search for sufficient staff in that sector is always difficult. Thus, in an institution such as the FPC, such infrastructure problems constitute an acute security problem. Mr President, I would like to put the following questions to you in response to the unrest and displeasure that exists in this area. How has the situation evolved in the meantime? Did the problem of infrastructure be met? Were you aware of the problem? Something's happened to it by now? What is the cause of the problem? If the problem has not yet been addressed, what is the time limit for effective repair? Do you have any more information on that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u30	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, following the introduction of the FPC in Ghent, it became clear quite quickly that there were problems at a number of doors. The first mention of a door that really failed came on October 15, 2018. For the FPC in Ghent there is a general maintenance contract, but there appeared to be discussions with the firm about the distribution of risks and liabilities and the concrete interpretation of the maintenance contract. A conciliation procedure was launched in February 2019, which delayed the repair work. In the meantime, five door frames were replaced in the course of 2018. On 20 March 2019, after the formal start of the mediation by the Government of the Buildings, it was decided to replace two more critical door frames. A settlement was completed at the beginning of July and on 8 July the effective order was followed by the contractor. Given the long production period of 10 to 12 weeks needed to produce the frames, the replacement could not be started until the end of August 2019. The works were completed on 26 September 2019, so currently a total of 27 door frames were replaced and thus the critical situation has been eliminated. Because of the complex nature of the problem, an independent lab was called in to investigate the matter in detail. At the end of this year, a report is expected indicating the exact causes. On the basis of the results of that study, an agreement and a working method will be drawn up in order to speed up repairs in the future. The Ghent building is new, so the current condition is good. However, it was decided to replace the electronic control of the room doors with a more evolved version, allowing for more accurate control from the control room. The new version is more user-friendly for the care staff. The work will be carried out as soon as the negotiated agreement is signed. Cooperation with the FPC and with the departments of the Government of the Buildings and Justice is going well. There are biweekly discussions with the operator and the maintenance partner to deal with the technical problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u31	Minister, it is very positive that the cow is being taken by the horns in order to find a solution through conciliation. I understand that concrete action has already been taken in the meantime. However, we must ensure that, in an institution such as the Forensic Psychiatric Centre, discussions between contractors and subcontractors do not lead to unsafe situations in terms of staff handling and handling. After all, patients with a high risk profile are staying in that centre. The staff and patients must not be the victims of such discussions. I am therefore pleased with the actions taken, but we will have to continue to follow up the dossier in order to ensure that the consultations continue. It is also a pity that such a new building immediately reveals such shortcomings in the security field. We will continue to follow up on the matter. I hope that the efforts made will continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u32	Minister, a building located at 48 rue des Palais in Brussels and rented by the Régie des Bâtiments to a private owner is currently underoccupied by the SPF Finances. In fact, only 40 staff members would currently be present on the premises, representing an area of 10,000 square metres. In December, these officials will all have migrated to other locations. In the early 2000s, the federal government sold the building for rent as part of the sale and lease back operation. Today, the rental amount is around 2.16 million euros per year and the rental contract runs until 2026. This raises the question and represents a significant expenditure of public money for services that do not seem to be useful. Minister, what assignment is planned for this building in the coming months, when all public servants leave the premises? Do you confirm that by the end of the year, this building will be almost empty and that the Régie des Bâtiments will pay for a rental that is almost useless? Is it possible to terminate this lease? Is a solution envisaged to make this building a reasonable use?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u33	Mr Vanden Burre, last August, this building was entirely transferred by the FPS Finances. As no other federal service needed to occupy it, the Régie des Bâtiments entered into negotiations with the owner to pre-emptively break the lease agreement. These negotiations are coming to an end and the outcome of these negotiations will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Pending the return of the building to its owner, he was placed under protection against unoccupation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will be attentive to the outcome of this negotiation. It would be interesting if we could invest the money from this rental differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u35	Mr Minister, we have learned from the press that the permit for the demolition of the houses expropriated for the reconstruction of the Verviers prison has been refused by the delegate official of the Walloon Region, on the main ground that there would have been no application for a permit to build a new establishment, and that she therefore could not appreciate the project as a whole. It is also our responsibility that the Régie des Bâtiments has already filed an appeal with the Walloon government against this refusal of a permit. From his point of view, it would be impossible to apply for a building permit now, or even to detail the new project, which must be built according to a DBFM procedure, through a public-private partnership, in charge of the design, construction, financing and maintenance of the prison. Since the outcome of this case has been expected since 2011, when the then mayor of Verviers made the decision to close, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is the exact status of this file? Do you confirm the information in the press? If so, what follow-up do you intend to give? What would be the agenda for this dossier and the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u36	Minister, the project to rebuild the prison in Verviers is an essential subject that has been before us for several years. I was already delighted, Minister, that your predecessor in Justice has included him as a priority in Masterplan III. The Régie des Bâtiments then took all the necessary precautions - following a political decision - to undertake this reconstruction in the very enclosure, applying the principle of public-private partnership. To this end, it has begun various works - such as the wall of the enclosure - but has also planned several expropriations. We now note the refusal by the delegate of the Walloon Region to grant the demolition permit on the grounds that no application has been made. Apparently, the Walloon Region is not sufficiently informed of certain rules. The Régie des Bâtiments has legitimately brought an action. Furthermore, I find it very serious that, in a rule of law, the delegated official in question seems to be asking himself questions as to the appropriateness of the location of the prison. This part is not within its competence. Legal control is his only responsibility. I understand that additional information must be provided, but the political decision to rebuild the prison in the very enclosure, which was taken by all the Vervieto living forces, must be absolutely maintained. It is not for an official to judge the political opportunity of a location.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u37	Here are two interventions with a lot of conviction!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u38	Mr President, thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u39	Mr President, this is a conviction that I fully share as Vervietois. A trans-party verviet solidarity has thus been established!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u40	That's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although I am not Vervietois - I could become Vervietois - we have brought an appeal against this decision. The Régie has already appeared before the Board of Appeal on 2 September and is awaiting the final decision. There is no question of changing the location of the future prison, which has been the subject of several consultations, as you have said so eloquently in your interventions. In the meantime, the dossier is in progress and the award decision for legal and financial consultants has already been approved by the Council of Ministers on 4 October. Preparation is under way, jointly between the Régie and the Justice FPS. The current schedule provides for the construction of the prison between 2022 and 2024, once the consortium has been designated. In Masterplan III, it was planned to build the prison in Verviers and to build a prison in the region of Liège, both under DBFM contract, to compensate for the overpopulation of the tower of Lantin. The precise location replacing that of Lantin is still to be defined but will in any case be located in the province of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u42	Mr Minister, I thank you very much for your answers, which, I hear, share our commitment, that of my colleague and mine, on this important issue. It is important for a city like Verviers which is an average city and which knows the problems of a medium city. This district capital suffers greatly from peri-urbanisation and needs to keep poles, in this case an important justice pole. I would also like to highlight the need to invest in his courthouse. Of course, we cannot leave the file "in the quagmire" since expropriations have taken place. People have left their homes. Mr Minister, I am therefore pleased to hear you say that there is no question of changing the project, particularly its location. I also thank you for your clarification of the timing. We hope that this issue will continue to progress rapidly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u43	Minister, thank you for the decision to maintain the site. It was obvious to me, but it was important to stress it here. I also thank you for the timing you gave us. It is important that we can continue to move forward in order to achieve it as quickly as possible. The years 2022-2024 will therefore be important and we hope to achieve the opening as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I have already questioned your predecessor, who was in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments and also of the Department of the Interior, on this subject. This is an emergency. Indeed, as you know, the federal police in Eupen have been working under very difficult conditions for years. For example, safety and fire standards have been criticized on several occasions and notice of strikes has been announced to denounce this situation. But my region is well known for its ability to seek solutions. Thus, the idea of bringing together the Weser-Göhl police zone and the federal police services on a single site emerged almost a year ago. Needs programs have been established on both sides and endorsed. The application was made, in accordance with the procedure, to the Department of the Interior and your department, Minister. The aim is now to consolidate this project and move forward so that authorization to build a police building bringing together the local entity and the federal entity can be given priority by the public authorities, namely the federal and local authorities. Minister, are you aware of the breakdown of the current federal police building in Eupen? Are you aware of the necessary investments that will have to be made in the near future in order to sustain the services on this site in a precarious but necessary way? What about the global entity to house both the federal and local police in Eupen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, in the past, we have already discussed the problems the police face in Eupen with regard to their accommodation. The Régie des Bâtiments is aware of these difficulties. Despite the project to leave the current building, boiler replacement work is in the final phase in this building. This work began on March 19 with the arrival of two first boilers. Unfortunately, this project was delayed due to a draining problem and a gas cut by ORES. Since then, gas has been restored to this site and heating and sanitary hot water are back in operation. With regard to the project of the new site, a meeting of all stakeholders was held on 13 September 2019. Land has been identified as a preferential option. It would be available by the end of 2020. The budget for its acquisition has been provided for in the 2020 investment programme of the Régie des Bâtiments. The Federal Police and Police Area Needs Program is known and an initial budget estimate has been prepared. The Régie must include these elements in a draft note to the Council of Ministers to be presented to a future Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u46	Minister, thank you for the details. I note with great satisfaction that the Régie des Bâtiments offers its assistance and is already taking initiatives. I also asked your colleague De Crem this question. There really would have to be an expression to demonstrate the urgency of moving forward on this issue. I know we're in business. I know that, therefore, the means are not there, as would be the case under a full-fledged government, but recognizing the urgency of action on this issue seems to me to be very important. It is a matter of continuity of service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u47	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago we had an opportunity to discuss the regulation of buildings and the difficulties facing the institution. I do not think that it is worth going into all the difficulties again, because we discussed them extensively three weeks ago. However, I would like to refer to the remedy which should help to respond to the difficulties, in particular the project launched by the previous legislature, which is the so-called redesign of the Government of the Buildings. The project was launched under your predecessor, Minister Jambon, who published a public contract in August 2016 for a review of the Government of the Buildings. The contract was awarded in February 2017. This led to a transformation process that was launched in January 2018. In March 2018, an agreement was reached in the Council of Ministers on the transformation of the Buildings into a public limited company. The policy paper presented by your predecessor, Minister Jambon, in this Parliament in October 2018 provided for this transformation in spring 2019. That was a few months ago. Mr President-in-Office, to what extent do you still endorse the policy paper for the Government of the Buildings as a basis for your own policy in this area? If you no longer support them, what is the basis for your policy? Why has the planned reform of the Buildings Control not taken place so far? Is this a delay or a set-off? During the previous sitting, you expressed some reservations. Are we to understand that you do not wish to implement the policy decided by the Council of Ministers? Or will that happen at a later stage? I have a few more questions about timing and the state of play. What real estate will the Government of the Buildings reject this year? When will the purchasing service be established? When will a new reporting be introduced at the PMO cell, as planned? When do you intend to submit the first version of the new management agreement to the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u48	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, the policy paper for the Buildings Regie der Belge was presented by my predecessor, Mr Jambon, in October 2018. The transformation of the Government of the Buildings into a public limited company of public law was at that time a plan which had not yet been discussed in the Council of Ministers. However, my predecessor has appointed a legal and fiscal adviser to prepare a draft law. I have had this work continued. It will be sent to the new government to take a position on this issue and, where appropriate, to draw up a management agreement. Given the little time I've had left since I was entrusted with the Director of Buildings, I've focused on optimising its operation. By means of a Selor agreement to have more staff certified to do recruitments, recruitments will be faster. In conjunction with the adoption of the staff plan, which will enable a total of around 150 staff to be recruited, I hope that this will create a framework that will provide a solution to the drastic shortage of staff. In addition, a new organogram is being developed to ensure more efficient operation and to address the gaps identified in the screening carried out under my predecessor. This organogram must make the direction function as parastatal A, but it is also active and workable in the form of a public limited company of public law. In reply to your question about the state of development of the Transformation Office, I can tell you that this is not competent to decide whether or not to dispose of real estate. The Tansformation Office is in the process of setting up a central purchasing service. As I said on 2 October, this new service is already operational for the Brussels dossiers with a value of EUR 30 000. From January 2020, this service will organise all public procurement for all the departments of the Buildings Directorate. The Transformation Office follows the introduction of the new Microsoft Project Online program for the Project Management cell. The programme is already being used for reporting. This makes it possible to better monitor the projects of the central administration and those of the external services. The use of this programme will be extended in the future at different stages to allow for additional reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am somewhat surprised at your communication on the reform of public limited liability companies. There may not have been a draft law discussed by the Council of Ministers, but it has dealt with the policy papers that set this as a point of action. The challenges of the Buildings Regie are particularly great. A long history precedes the process of reforming the Regie der Bouwken, the redesign project. It would be a wrong choice now to withdraw certain aspects of that trajectory, to choose not to implement them and to stand on the brakes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u50	Minister, several reports show a shortage of staff in several federal services, especially in the Buildings Regie. Many examples show that there are a lot of problems. The internal audit report on the RAC in Brussels states that due to a lack of staff and a lack of expertise in the Directorate of Buildings, major projects can no longer be properly carried out. Public services have long been struggling to fill open vacancies after retirements, promotions or departures to other positions. The problem is certainly not new. Over the past five years, the problem has become much more acute. Mr Fridays also stressed to us on 2 October that the staff shortage is a fairly serious problem. How many staff are employed today by the Buildings Management and how much was that in 2015? Does the Government of the Buildings have enough staff on board today to carry out the many tasks properly? What do you think is the lower limit in terms of staffing to make the Buildings Control work at an acceptable level? The top executive of the Buildings Regie, Mr.Fridayhs, recently announced that directing is difficult to compete with other public services, sometimes from other regions in the country, and the private sector. In concrete terms, this results in a staff outflow. Why is that? Is there a bad climate in the service? Is staff not adequately reimbursed? The audit report on the RAC was devastating for the operation of the Government of the Buildings. Will this be followed up? In other words, is Mr Friday's position under discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u51	Ms Vindevoghel, on 1 January 2015, the Regie employed 918 full-time equivalents. On 1 September 2019, that number had fallen to 690 full-time equivalents. This is not enough to carry out all the tasks properly. For this reason, last year I approved a staff plan with the authorisation to fill in 150 of the most critical functions already. It concerns staff with very many specific profiles, so that recruitment must be carried out through different recruitment procedures. With these additional recruitments, the Regie should be able to carry out its tasks at an acceptable level. However, an ideal workforce would consist of 967 full-time equivalents. A large number of pensioners are also opposed to recruitment. It is also noted that the labour market has become much more volatile in recent years. Young staff and staff with a technical profile set higher demands in terms of remuneration, fulfilment of their duties and balance of work-life. The Regie can recruit within the existing Staff Regulations and the associated blighting wage increases. Moreover, the private market can often offer all kinds of extra-legal advantages. The Regie therefore develops a retain policy to make working at the Regie as attractive as possible within the existing regulations to keep staff in its own organisation at work. Finally, I would like to point out to you, Mrs Vindevoghel, that the authors of the RAC audit report have clarified the subject matter of their audit as follows. I quote: 'The current analysis thus focuses on the investigation of the causes of budget overruns, as well as on the identification of the underlying processes and procedures that have caused them. It is not intended to assess the personal role of individual actors."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u52	However, Minister, I still have the important question of how it could have happened to fall back from a 918 job to a 690 job. That is a huge decrease in the number of employees over a number of years. We are now seeing the consequences of this in the field: there is a shortage of staff both in prisons and in museums as well as in other institutions. I would just like to say how important this is for the well-being of the workers. If people are to continue to do their jobs, they must ensure good buildings and working conditions. I would like to add another aspect, the ecological aspect. If the buildings are to be in order and the environment is healthy for the workers, then it must not happen, as today with the Buildings Management with insufficient resources and insufficient staff. Then there is a need for large investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u53	Minister, from 20 October 2020 to 10 April 2021, Belgium will participate in the "Expo 2020 Dubai', the World Exhibition in the United Arab Emirates. On this occasion, a pavilion of about €8 million will be built. The Belgian Commissioner-General for the International Exhibitions is the contracting authority for the construction of the Belgian pavilion. The Director of Buildings is the builder. For example, in close cooperation with BELEXPO, the selection and award board and the technical performance provisions for the pavilion, the Buildings Regie took part in the evaluation of the applications and tenders and offered its legal support. The Government of the Buildings will also monitor the works from a to z and ensure that everything is done within the framework of the awarded Design & Build public contract. Construction started in September 2019. The completion is scheduled for September 2020. Mr Minister, who will oversee the buildings on the ground? Who are the construction workers who are currently raising our Belgian pavilion? Are those Belgian workers there on the spot? Are these inhabitants of the United Arab Emirates or are they migrant workers employed by local construction companies? Has the conditions of employment of employees been taken into account in the public tender for the construction of the Belgian pavilion? Is there a view of the working conditions of the subcontractors? What part of the EUR 8 million will be spent on workers' wages? What will happen to the Belgian pavilion after the exhibition? Is it gonna get a re-destination, or is it gonna be aborted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, the public contract was awarded on 30 January 2019 to the consortium BEMOB-2020, led by the Belgian company Besix, which has its own branch in Dubai, Six Construct. The latter is responsible for the execution and follow-up of works carried out by subcontractors. The award decision contains a whole series of provisions on environmental law, social law and labour law to which the contractor must comply and which he must impose on his subcontractors. In general, the organisation of the exhibition provides for the recruitment of employees to comply with European labour laws and the specific requirements of the 2020 World Exhibition. This point will also be discussed at follow-up meetings between the contracting authority, the Directorate of Buildings and the contractor. At present, the groundwork has started on the plot and BEMOB-2020 is waiting for the approval of the building permit to start building. The public procurement procedure provides for the submission of a global prize by the different candidates without detailed price ventilation for each item individually. It is therefore not possible to give more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic029x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the information. I hope, as you say, that this will be properly followed up. We have reports, such as from the Human Rights Watch organisation, about many problems in the United Arab Emirates, because very often the kafala system is used, which means that the workers have to issue their visas. Because workers do not have their own visas during their working period, they are in a very dependent position. I hope that you will follow that closely, to ensure that the working conditions of the people who work there are conducted in an appropriate manner.
