ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u1	Madam Minister, the Belgian climate plan is due to be submitted in three weeks' time. So far we have had little explanation of this. However, we received the documents in the meantime. They confirm what was already in the paper and what is also addressed in my question. So I'm going to have to rephrase them a little bit. There is, among other things, an additional 5 billion for SNCB. Apart from questions about the concrete measures, I also have a number of general questions. What exactly is the state of play? Is the federal chapter we received the final version? We understand that the government approved that part last Friday. Is that combined with the regional plans? What will happen before 31 December to arrive at an integrated design of NEKP? During the hearings, many people stressed the importance of an integrated design. After reading the federal draft, which was delivered to us yesterday, I was not entirely clear what action was taken on the recommendations of the European Commission. The main issue is the recommendations on how to adjust the levels of ambition. The level of ambition for CO2 is a 35% reduction by 2030, the only target already set today. However, the recommendations also address the level of ambition for renewable energy. I note that the federal plan has not been fundamentally revised in this respect. However, the intention is to maintain the measures on the 4 gigawatt by 2030, even though the sector itself claims to be ready more quickly, adding that the obstacle is the connection. Is it therefore perhaps not more relevant to explore with the other stakeholders, namely Elijah and the Regions, how we can speed things up and comply with the European Commission's recommendation, so that we at least achieve the level of ambition? I have the same comment about investments and, in particular, the list of energy subsidies and measures to be drawn up with a view to phasing them out in order to achieve the energy security objectives. I read that after the Council of Ministers, you communicated very voluntaristally. For example, the weekend newspapers headlined that the federal government will phase out energy subsidies for fossil fuels. But the text of the plan, which we received yesterday, showed that there is not so much a phase-out as the creation of a list by 2021, which would be communicated by the end of 2020. It will therefore take us a year to identify what financial investment we are making and what support is being given to fossil fuels. After that, the government will draw up an action plan by 2021. In terms of willingness to act, that is only lean. A future National Energy and Climate Plan and, above all, its federal aspects, can hardly be said to be ambitious if we confine ourselves to drawing up a list. I'm assuming there's a problem in our records to get the information, since it would take the government a year to draw up a list. What are the obstacles in this respect? After all, it is not claimed that the list would be available in three months, after which there would be an action plan by the end of 2021. The sooner the action plan is put in place, the sooner the actions can be implemented. In this respect, we are only wasting time. The fair and equitable transition aspects were also a recommendation of the European Commission. It is therefore particularly poignant to read that only one paragraph is added to the National Energy and Climate Plan, namely to organise a national dialogue with all policy actors, governments and stakeholders. I am not against a national dialogue, on the contrary, it is very important to work together with stakeholders to achieve a common project and support. We must involve everyone, citizens, businesses and associations. At the same time, we already have a number of powers in our hands today and there are certainly measures for which there is already support. We hear here that you will ask for confirmation of the royal decrees on public service obligations. I assume that this will also be about the Gas and Electricity Social Fund which we have already discussed in this committee. This is the perfect time to really do something about energy poverty and allow indexation to happen again. It's a lot of words, but little action. In this sense, it is a missed opportunity after the public consultation with a lot of reactions resulting and after a lot of intensive consultation. This exchange of views was postponed because there were still meetings, because there would still be official consultations, because there would still be IKW consultations. You have done poor expectation management, because in my opinion everyone expected to get an ambitious plan here, which does not appear to be the case. For biofuels, the target was revised slightly downwards, from 14% to just over 12%. Even so, it remains to be seen that everything that has to do with food aspects would certainly be better banned. Finally, there remains the question of how you took into account the public survey. The regulation requires that the results of the public survey be included in the plan, but I do not see them. I don't think they were added. Reference is made to the website where it can be consulted, but I can hardly say that a summary of the recommendations has been included, nor that it has been indicated how it is or is not taken into account. In that sense it appeared that very many Belgians are very much in favour of offshore wind. You may feel supported by that as a minister to try to speed things up. You may also try to scale up in line with what the sector is saying. The population indicates that there is support for this. Nevertheless, we are sticking to what we already know instead of thinking along on how we can speed things up. Madam Secretary, the climate doesn't wait. There's nothing wrong with small steps, Jos Delbeke said here. There is indeed nothing wrong with small steps, if the noses are in the same direction and if we follow the direction. What is missing from this plan is that there are too many small steps that are still too vague. It is about making a plan, organising an exchange of views, but we miss the concrete actions too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u2	Mr President, I had put a lot of questions. Yesterday I received the plan. Some questions may no longer apply. Many things have already been mentioned, but I want to start with the story of SNCB. In the newspaper we read the very large figure of EUR 35 billion. If we look at that figure a little more closely, it seems to be more about 5 billion investments. The rest is based on the amount of money that is available today. I was wondering what the relationship is between freight and passenger transport. What is most bet on in the plan? A hearing in Parliament with Mrs Dutordoir asked what the major priorities were, in which investment had to be made. At that time, she mentioned four points. First of all, new trains, that's what the plan says. Secondly, increased platforms for accessibility. Then there were two very important mobility projects for SNCB, the saturation of the North-South link in the heart of our country and a second opening for the port of Antwerp to facilitate more freight transport. These last two priorities alone would cost EUR 5 billion. Has that been calculated today? I also have questions about the fossil fuels. The inventory requested is indeed in the plan. It will take a year to draw up that inventory, as Mrs van der Straeten said. Why does it take so long? What are the main lines? What are the priorities in that? After all, it cannot be that the government has no idea where it is going. One cannot just make it depend on an inventory to make choices only afterwards. I also read in the plan that there will be an action plan. Will the purpose of that action plan be to stop subsidising fossil fuels, where its actions are mainly modalities to achieve this, or does that mean that you will look at exactly what you will do when you have the inventory, because that is, of course, a very big difference for us? Biofuel has just been quoted. You are aware of our reservations about this. Those figures have indeed been brought down a little bit, but that is not very much in itself. I didn't read anything about a carbon price in the administration's recommendations. Can you say something about that? Is there any intention to work something out around there? Of course, we must not just present this plan; our long-term strategy must also be in place by the end of the year. I hear that this would be problematic, so perhaps you can give us an update on that. Will you still get that timing? What can we expect about the long-term strategy and, in particular, what is going to happen now? We received the federal contribution today. In the past, we have talked very often about the difficult and poor links with the regions. How does the story go on and how is it aligned with the Regions? How will we try to make it coherent? Finally, I would like to comment on the input of the population. You were quite enthusiastic about the public survey, so I assumed that was the start of more consultation. However, I do not find much on this subject. Is it intended to evolve towards a more structural consultation structure, as in the Netherlands? After all, this plan is just the beginning of a whole procedure. So I can imagine that all the help from the stakeholders is very welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u3	I have two questions, one on the long-term strategy, but that doesn't matter, because I asked them last week, and then you said, Madam Minister, that you didn't have an answer. So I am simply referring to the question I asked last week and expect an answer to it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u4	Voila, that's obvious. Mr Verduyckt, you also had two questions. Did you ask them both?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u5	Yeah, I made a mix of the two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u6	Mr Wollants, I give you the floor for the general debate that is now being opened for anyone who asks to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u7	Mr President, Minister, there is something to be said about the National Energy and Climate Plan. I see very clearly in the texts that you refer specifically to the decision on the federal energy strategy. You remember the way it was created. At the same time, I have to say that there has not been much of this federal energy strategy. The only thing we have seen appear are the capacity mechanism and a number of things Philippe De Backer has done. Many other things, which were inextricably wounded, have not come. However, that was one of the explicit conditions for the federal energy strategy to be able to talk about, for example, the core exit. I refer to the Monitoring Committee that would be set up and to the energy standard that should have been on the table for a very long time. I didn't find anything on that. To what extent can we still speak of a federal energy strategy as a basis for the whole? I think we're a long way behind. The note says once again that the energy standard is coming and that we will investigate it, but those are things that should have been there. At the same time, I note that in recent days there has been some news about the core exit. According to the Flemish Engineering Association, we would best postpone the core trip. Jean-Pascal van Ypersele says it would be wise to keep the two youngest nuclear power stations open. I even heard a vice prime minister on the radio this morning saying they're interesting ideas. I can imagine that, because I think we have been proclaiming it for about ten years. To what extent should the National Energy and Climate Plan be revised in this respect? There is room for a debate on this. As regards wind energy, the plan sets out a common methodology for the environmental impact assessment. What do you think that means in concrete terms? I have already asked your colleague De Backer about this. Today, in the field of, for example, sustainability standards for wind energy at sea, we are absolutely not among the strictest in the classroom. In the Netherlands, for example, there are other issues that are raised in the area of sound impact. How do you see that now? We're talking about the North Sea Energy Corporation. When do you expect results? This seems to be at a very early stage, and it seems that we should not expect too much of it in the first few years. I hope I'm wrong. I remember that this idea was in the Flemish government agreement in 2009, it could also have been 2004. How is progress being made in this area? How are you going to get that done? Then I'll get the biofuels. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this. There is a whole methodology in this area today that is being strengthened at European level. How is this plan going to deal with that specifically? Suppose in the future a number of issues relating to sustainability criteria will be strengthened, especially when it comes to palm oil....................................................................................................................................................................... Where are we going with that? Then I'll get to the Buildings Regie. It is punishment, but one manages to package the same proposal each time as a new idea and put it into a new plan. When it comes to the energy inventory and the like, I think the Buildings Control has been working on it for years, without any progress being made by a millimeter. It's hallucinating to say, but a few years ago, I asked a question to Secretary of State Servais Verherstraeten, who was then responsible for the Government of the Buildings. I asked what the Regie does in the regions and whether rational use of energy is something for the Government of the Buildings. He replied that the specialists had already done something with this in the 1980s, that it was all arranged. To be honest, that's not the way we have to work. I have to say now that Mr Koen Geens says again that they are going to investigate it further and that they will see where that is going, while they were standing exactly the same distance a year and a half ago. So I'm really going to stay hungry in that area. I do not see very well how the Government of the Buildings will achieve a decent pace in this way. As you know, I have already referred in an earlier hearing to the speed with which these things are being done in public buildings. Then I had calculated that it would take about 4,000 years. It all seems a little noncommittal. Here one goes again for that non-binding piste. Something very briefly about low-caloric and high-caloric gas is mentioned in the plan. That debate has been going on for a long time and very little progress has been made. You will no doubt remember the government agreement, which said that there would be a national fund to finance it. However, I have not heard too much about this in all these years. Madam Secretary, where are we with that today, how do we deal with it? I also note that there is a reference to the high electricity costs as a brake on a number of things in modal shift, such as the use of electric transport. At the same time, the path with the CRM will add a whole package to the electricity costs. In an interesting hearing, employees of the FOD have explained that the three same slopes as they used to be are still open. With permanent eye contact, you forced the lady in question not to say a letter other than you wished. You have made steady progress with this. Those three slopes still add extra costs to the electricity bill. Madam Secretary, how do you see that? How does this fit in with the phasing out of support for fossil fuels in your text? With what we are doing today, I have the impression that we are already launching support for fossil fuels. How do you rhyme with these two cases? After all, if you want to grant subsidies to some gas plants for 15 years, this is in stark contrast to what is on the table today. My conclusion is that several things are at least not as consistent as they should be, and we may even go in the wrong direction. I look forward to your views on those matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few remarks and questions of clarification to make on various topics. First of all, there is the question of nuclear power, with, as my predecessor has just pointed out, recent and not least expressions, in particular that of Mr van Ypersele yesterday morning on public airwaves. Are these recent expressions likely to question your analysis of the subject and change your vision of things? How can nuclear output be combined with the creation of CO2-emitting power plants? How can we get this into the scope of the Paris Accords? For offshore wind, a new capacity of 1.75 GW is expected by 2028. However, unless I am mistaken, this new capacity is linked to the setting up of the "Haïnaut Circle" which will require quite large permits in many municipalities. Does the timing seem realistic to you by 2030? That seems a little optimistic to me, but I would have liked to hear you on this point. With regard to biofuels, I would like to point out that Mr. Van Nuffel, President of the Climate Coalition, recommended that, during his hearing here, we simply abandon this path. What about it? What did you do with the arguments he was able to make in front of us? In the document submitted to us, there is also the question of VAT on bicycles. I asked the minister responsible for the matter a few weeks ago. What is the state of play in the dialogue with the European Commission to review VAT rules and possibly increase VAT in Belgium to 6% on bicycles? On page 49, you refer to the aviation sector in a chapter on taxation. Should a specific tax be deducted on the air sector? If so, what would be the form? More generally, the great absences from this document are all the issues related to product standards where there is material to work; I am thinking in particular of the question of plastics, on which I regularly return to committee. More generally, there is the issue of trade agreements and free trade which is ultimately the core of the problem. Indeed, at the global level, if I remember correctly, more than 30% of CO2 emissions result from farming. What sense can there be in allowing or facilitating the import of beef or poultry produced across the world? In my view, these issues should also be addressed in an ambitious national plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u9	Madam Minister, in our committee we have already had a lot of hearings on the National Climate and Energy Plan. The Council of Ministers discussed a draft last Friday. The question is whether this plan can support the majority of Parliament, given that the so-called majority has fallen into a small minority. The plan itself contains a number of good measures, such as the creation of offshore projects by 2030, representing 4 gigawatts. However, the question is to what extent all this will be sufficient if nuclear power stations are to be phased out by 2025. The dependence on energy from our neighbouring countries will only increase. The question remains whether the energy we will buy is produced by renewable energy sources. Last Sunday I choked on my coffee when I read the interview with climate guru Professor Van Ypersele in De Zondag, which many here and by the climate youths are acting like a god. He apparently now advocates keeping nuclear power plants open for longer, because they are cheap energy sources and they are also carbon-neutral. In addition, it makes it clear that gas plants emit CO2, however different it may be. Today he has said that gas cannot be an alternative to the present nuclear power stations. Renewable energy currently accounts for only 2% of the total energy consumption in our country, despite the steep rise of windmills and solar panels in recent years. Engineers' association ie-net argued in the same context last week for the longer opening up of nuclear power plants, which Flemish Interest has always defended. The honourable Member has just referred to it: Minister De Croo took the same turn this morning. The Flemish interest is particularly pleased with this. Madam Secretary, I would like to hear your views on this matter. I would also point out that France wants to continue to rely on nuclear energy for 50% in the future and also to build new nuclear power plants. By the way, how can we realistically achieve the overall EU target of at least 32% of renewable energy by 2030? The plan refers to the greening of the company car park, which will be the subject of a legislative proposal by Mr Lachaert, among others, tomorrow. I do not want to anticipate the debate, but I would like to say that we are going through a very short period. Does the government envisage, for example, compensatory measures to finance the phasing out of fossil fuels in the light of electrification with a significant reduction in excise revenue from fuels? If so, which one? That is an essential question. Will the infrastructure available be sufficient by 2023, if companies are encouraged to proceed with electrification? I had hoped that much more would be devoted to hydrogen, which could provide much better controllable capacity than other renewable energy sources where energy could not be stored. The recommendations do not include public funding for the deployment of hydrogen, which could take us a whole step forward. Without public intervention, the private market will in any case not move and we will be caught up by other countries along the right. Why is such a limited use made of this? We want to reduce the tax burden on the company car, but I note that the government does not want to spend any euros on the roll-out of charging stations or on hydrogen research and development. The federal chapter in the entire climate and energy plan is only a limited part of a much larger whole. A large number of measures will have to be taken by the Parliaments, which will have to integrate four plans. We note that the various parliaments are switching at various speeds, all the more so because Flanders buried the CO2 tax, set the bar much lower and tell a different story than many Members of Parliament here, who live on a cloud. This Friday, the plan will be made public. It is exciting to see what the Saint will bring on Friday 6 December. I think that many left-wing parties here around the table are already waiting for the plans with the necessary nervousness. However, cohesion is very important. Madam Minister, I would have liked to have heard your views on this. One thing is clear. Flemish minister Zuhal Demir asks the federal colleagues in a letter to Minister Marghem to save the climate. However, most of the measures will have to come from the regional parliaments, including Flanders. Minister Demir asks for, among other things, an increased investment deduction for companies for energy-saving measures. In the context of the corporate tax reform, the party to which Mrs Demir is a member has abolished investment deductions for companies from 2021. So one moves the hot potato to another. Madam Secretary, how will you respond to Mrs Demir's letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u10	Mr President, Minister, this morning the sun shone above East Flanders. On the radio I heard that Flemish engineers make it clear to us that we have to turn on electric pay cars. I heard the Belgian car industry applaud this, as both Audi and Volvo are working on electric cars. I also heard thousands of entrepreneurs cheering. After all, if entrepreneurs are to give electric cars to their staff, they are immediately taking an important step in their climate action. I read an article by climatologist Van Ypersele in preparation for this meeting by moving me by train. At the same time, I heard Mrs Demir handle climate issues in the most creative way, at the expense of the bankrupt federal government. She is still waiting to hear what her colleagues have to say. Madam Secretary, could you clarify the finalisation of the national plan? How will this happen with the Regions? What contribution will the Regions make, do you already have a view on this? From Mrs Demir's communication this morning, I was unable to infer from when the regions should make their contribution. Should this not be done until the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 18 December? Do you have enough time? Do you intend to keep your fellow ministers at home during the Christmas period? Which ones are the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u11	Madam Minister, yesterday we received the federal part of the final NEKP, for which I thank you. Of course, we have not yet been able to analyse it fully in detail, but we have a number of outstanding questions for you. Firstly, the European Commission has made a number of comments on the draft NEKP. We are very curious to see how you dealt with the European Commission's comments both for the federal section and for the other sub-plans. Which points have been processed? On what points are you and your fellow ministers currently preparing an argument? The European Commission asked for renewable energy ambitions to be raised to a minimum of 25%. The design of NEKP advanced 18.3 %. What is the Belgian ambition for renewable energy by 2030? One of the main criticisms was that the draft plan was not integrated and contained too few concrete, quantified measures. The proposed measures resulted in a reduction in emissions of minus 13 % instead of the requested minus 35 %. Will the definitive NEKP include calculated measures? The European Commission also asked Belgium to identify financial subsidies for fossil fuels. That question has already been asked. Last weekend, the newspaper said that according to the latest estimates, Belgium is still subsidising fossil fuels for a minimum of EUR 2.7 billion per year. The subsidies go from tax advantages for commercial cars and lower taxes on kerosene for aircraft to reduced fuel oil prices. Our country promised the European Commission an inventory of all subsidies on fossil fuels. I note that you have confirmed that intention in the final federal section of the NEKP. However, what measures have you already taken in the revised NEKP? A number of subsidy flows have been known for a long time. We believe that you do not have to wait for the results of the study to tackle a number of subsidies already. As far as we have been able to analyse the plan, we have noticed that a number of new more concrete measures are also included in the federal NEKP. I have a number of specific, informative questions about this. For example, you announce the intention to reduce the VAT rate for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings intended for private homes to 6%. Does the measure apply only to new buildings or also to renovations? Moreover, the plan also states that new fuel oil boilers may no longer be sold from 2035 onwards. In the same year, new building districts also no longer receive gas connections. We wonder where that time horizon comes from. Why don't these measures start earlier? In the Netherlands, for example, new residential areas are already not getting gas connection. Why are we waiting for this for more than 15 years? What was that choice based on? Then I have a question about biofuels. For first generation biofuels, the federal section confirms the target of 7%. We have talked about this before, Madam Secretary, how can you justify it? I asked questions about this last time. You then referred to the biennial feasibility study, which will also assess the environmental integrity of biofuels, and the fact that biofuels also have to meet sustainability criteria. We already know that first generation biofuels are not sustainable. They are at the expense of food security and are contrary to sustainable development objectives. The argument of food security should be sufficient for you, as Minister for Sustainable Development, to phase out first generation biofuels. This is apart from the serious doubts that exist about the possible emissions of biofuels based on food. Nor does the European Commission require Member States to use first generation biofuels. There is a new directive on renewable energy. It was fundamentally changed. From 1 January 2021, biofuels based on food crops should no longer be required to be mixed. There is therefore no longer an obligation for first generation biofuels and they are no longer included in the renewable energy transport targets. How do you justify this choice for continuing to use first generation biofuels? When you talk about sustainability criteria, which criteria exactly are you talking about? If the feasibility study shows that first generation biofuels are not sustainable, will you change your biofuels policy? Finally, what is the status of Belgium's long-term strategy for 2050? Yesterday's article in De Standaard was already cited. It says that you will not succeed in submitting a Belgian strategy to the European Commission in time. Is this information correct and can you lift a tip from the veil about what will be in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u12	Madam Minister, I have a small number of specific questions, but first I would like to respond to the remark just made by the Flemish Interest. Indeed, there is an important weight in the regions to achieve the climate objectives; and that is a good thing. Everything is of course part of the idea of cooperation and of confederalism, hence a number of questions from Flanders to the federal level. My questions relate to this, Madam Secretary. In particular, I did not find a number of issues in the National Energy and Climate Plan, as you have presented to us at the moment. Firstly, will you continue to work on solving the problem of the fuel surplus? Secondly, is it possible to bring forward the sustainability of the sale of fuel oil boilers? Some of my colleagues have already mentioned this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u13	Are there any people who would like to speak? [[No.]] I would now like to take the floor as a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u14	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you for having seriously improved the draft. The European Commission had made about a dozen recommendations, and they are very much taken into account if the text is read correctly. You refer, among other things, to a research agenda and to the phasing out of subsidies for fossil fuels. You are talking about more ambition, more quantification and more regional cooperation. There is also more attention to governance and to a national dialogue. These are all points of improvement, ladies and gentlemen, which show that the Minister and the Government have been working hard behind the scenes in recent months, for which I congratulate you. I do have some specific questions. Firstly, on the EUR 35 billion announced for rail, an additional EUR 5 billion on top of the planned aid. For us, it is important that this aid should go mainly to infrastructure rather than to additional operating subsidies because we need a rail system that works much more efficiently. The opportunity of a private market and some competition is desperately needed there. It is also striking that there are only seven SNCB charging stations today, where people can charge their cars electrically. For example in Antwerp-Berchem and Ghent-Dampoort there is currently no electric charging pole. Secondly, there is a momentum building up in relation to electric cars. Two weeks ago leaked that informant Magnette has plans for electric cars. Then there was a big troll army on the Internet that said this is impossible. Today, Mrs Demir launches the same question to the federal government and the troll army is silent. Suddenly, it's possible. That is a very strange finding. Anyway, that means that more and more people come to that understanding. There's gonna be a bill here tomorrow. Uiteraard, the devil is in the details. We are not in favour of opening up existing contracts. I read in certain proposals that people who are already driving a company car want to make it more expensive every year. That means that people will have less and less net. We will not approve of that. I would like to know what your findings on this matter are, Madam Secretary. That should not necessarily be electric, that can also be on hydrogen, Mr Van Lommel. I see you're asking for subsidies for hydrogen. Apparently, the government needs to open up the money supply to hydrogen. The Flemish interest therefore requires new subsidies. I'd be careful with that anyway. Anyway, they're making that cover. Madam Secretary, the federal government must also set an example. In that respect, the federal government disappoints me. Let's take a look at the share of clean cars in the federal government. The latest figures date back to 2015, already four years ago, the federal government functions so smoothly. Only 1% have no diesel or petrol combustion engine. You want all these cars to be completely climate neutral by 2030, that's within 11 years. I wish you good luck, but I particularly wonder how they are going to do that, how they are going to succeed. Thirdly, there has already been talk here about the regulation of buildings. By the way, it is unbelievable that people are still talking about the Government of the Buildings, with 'der'. I thought the old Dutch had already disappeared by now, but apparently not by the Government of the Buildings. Many ministers have already passed, including Mr Jambon, where there is little improvement. Madam Secretary, according to your plan, the in-depth renovation of the federal government's buildings should cost EUR 1.65 billion. You know our country's budgetary situation. Have you thought about doing this smartly, working with third-party financing or private investment or possibly co-financing from the European Union? For the record, I'm not talking about sale-and-lease-back operations. Apparently, there is broad consensus among all parties on the windmills. Madam Secretary, that is a credit to you and to Mr De Backer. The plan will already fill the Belgian part of the North Sea with windmills. How do you view the development of windmills deep in the sea, in other words in the places where there will be space? You refer again to the ongoing study of the four regulators on the introduction of the energy standard. We think it is progressing too slowly; I do not need to repeat it to you. In the meantime, do you have any additional information on this? Finally, the political work is not easy. Some of us will soon be leaving for Madrid, some by plane, others by train and perhaps others by boat. One's on a regular plane, the other's on a carpool plane. There could be people on a private plane, I don't know. Italians are even flown in with a private jet by the Flemish Interest. All this can be done; these are the opportunities for those who represent the voice of the people today. I'm probably going with Ryanair, I'm not sure, but not with the private jet of Flemish interest. Madam Secretary, you have received a number of questions from Mrs Demir. She asked you to work on the introduction of 6 % VAT for demolition and new construction and the support for electric commercial vehicles. With this, she puts herself on the line of what is in the note of informant Magnette. That's an interesting convergence. How do you respond to that? Will you be able to take that into account in the note, which you will have to deliver before the end of the year? Colleagues, I still have something to say. It is, of course, easy to shoot at this minister, who is trying hard. Mr Wollants, you mentioned the high electricity prices. However, our gas prices are among the lowest in Europe. This is a merit of the free market, of the liberalisation of the energy market. In combination with the electricity price, the price is too high, you know. You have been fighting this for years. The reality, however, is that the reason for these high prices lies mainly in levies, premiums and distribution network charges. It is more than one billion euros per year in Flemish taxes. I am particularly sorry that the Flemish Minister for Energy is doing so little about it. She will get the public lighting out of it, for 50 million euros, but for the rest, the invoice remains a tax invoice. The N-VA- can do something about that, but I don't see much of it. Let us therefore work together to solve this problem, not only at the Belgian level, but consistently at all levels at which we are active.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, although many questions have already been asked, I still have a few. The first concerns the increase in the SNCB-Infrabel grant. Recently, in the Mobility Committee, hearings have been held. The CEOs of Infrabel and SNCB claimed to need an additional EUR 99 million per year over the next five years just for the renewal of the railway network. We know the pressure exists. Leaks in the press occurred this summer, but also at other times, regarding the possible closure of small lines. Today, however, if sustainable mobility is to be achieved, this obviously begins with the maintenance of the current lines. If we want to expand the network and increase the supply, that's a good thing. However, the maintenance and efficiency of the network must be ensured as a first step. All the other measures you propose are of course interesting, but so we're running out of budget. Indeed, just the maintenance of the lines would already swallow up the additional staffing that you are referring to here. I'd like to know how you look at things. I also have a question about investments in rail, concerning access to airports. Isn't it in the logic of the snake biting its tail? Have you assessed the impact of an increase in airport accessibility via public transport? These are substantial investments, which always promote mobility by air, which is not sustainable. On the other hand, in the Mobility Committee there is a lot of talk about night trains and support for international rail mobility. I don't see anything about that in your new project. This is a direction that other countries are moving towards, and that is interesting. The members of the Mobility Committee strongly support this option. A resolution will be adopted shortly. It will be interesting to incorporate this direction and this will of Parliament. I also have a question about the removal of diesel locomotives. That's good news. But what would happen to the old machines? You are proposing to change the tax system to promote less polluting, less powerful and less heavy car models. It would be interesting to clarify the criteria. Do you already know what the criteria will be? I believe that there is a need for coordination between the different levels of power on this issue. The Minister of Mobility in Brussels has voted for a tax amendment to favour the least polluting and less dangerous vehicles. In some cities, there is a desire to create low-risk areas, either through a ban or through a change in taxation. These different mechanisms need to be more or less coordinated in order to send a clear message to consumers, so that they know to which vehicle they are trying to steer. If the criteria are different at different levels of power, we will not get away with it. There is a real need for dialogue on this issue. The mobility dimension of participation is important, particularly vis-à-vis SNCB users. I encourage you to be in dialogue with SNCB and Infrabel, but also with users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u16	Mr President, Minister, a small non-personal fact. You may still feel last night's adrenaline in the Kortrijk City Council, I don't know. I leave that to other qualified people and professional groups. I have no comment on Salvini's plane either. I do have a question about the distribution network tariffs. The President, Mr Van Quickenborne, asks questions about the final invoice for consumers. I know that Minister Peeters made major announcements about this in the spring, but we are not aware of it anymore. I also know that Mr Tommelein, when he was Minister, did indeed succeed in the Fluvius story. However, the Fluvius story does not have a major impact on distribution network tariffs. Will you then refuse to receive dividends from the energy intercommunals with the city of Kortrijk? You make great statements here about distribution network tariffs, but you know that the cities and municipalities in Flanders are almost all owners of the network and profit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u17	Thank you for asking the Minister. I am glad that you support my proposal. I think the dividends are allowed to swing at zero. I don't think the energy bill should be a hidden tax bill. Very good, Mr Ravyts. Minister, a lot of questions for you. And hopefully, a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u18	Thank you for your brilliant interventions in which one can detect the passion – necessary – to work on this dossier and to expose your vision. This shows the difficulties in unifying visions, bringing them together to achieve an effective result. It is the work of planning that is all the more complicated because you must never lose sight of the fact that you are before the minister who has the Environment, Sustainable Development and Energy in her skills – and not directly mobility – and who does not act at the regional level. Our Plan touches on a lot of matters that can be discussed between us, but we will have to stop to a certain point of detail. Since the mobility effort is very important, it might be interesting to have the Minister of Mobility with me. In addition, we are in day-to-day business and it is repeatedly pointed out in the Plan that there is a great deal of expertise in the regions, since we are talking about the reduction of greenhouse gases in non-TSS, i.e. energy efficiency of buildings, transport and mobility and agriculture. What remains of the federal government and how has it built its response to the European Commission? We have done an analysis of the situation and we have agreed that we should do as much as possible in the production of clean energy. This is not a novelty and we have already included it in our previous plan. But it is above all with the Regions that we are going to step up our efforts together. When we say that we are still 4 GW of power installed in the North Sea by 2030, we forget two fundamental things. First, as we decided in 2017 at the conclusion of the Interfederal Energy Pact, the Regions must continue to significantly increase renewable capacity, taking into account the exit of nuclear power in 2025. I'll be there later. Second, it should not be forgotten that the more you increase the capacity at sea, the more lines will have to be reinforced to distribute this capacity. But you see it in Germany – I take this example at random – there is a lot of offshore capacity in the North but this country has a very ambitious plan for the construction of direct current lines from north to south and takes the time of permits, the time of recourse, the time of societal acceptance. This plan, I believe, will not be completed until 2030. We have the same problem because in addition to the difficulties that Germany is causing us with the loop flows, since it is not advancing in its territory, we will also have two loops to strengthen the transmission of high-voltage electricity. On the one hand, there will be the loop on Flemish territory – called Ventilus – which apparently creates enormous difficulties in terms of societal acceptance and on the other hand the loop of the Hainaut which will go from Avelgem to Courcelles and which is intended to complement the device relating to the emergence of offshore capacity in the North Sea. I wanted to show you a map. You can see on your right, opposite Knokke-Heist, the current offshore wind farm that will be completed by 2020 to reach the installed capacity of 2.2 GW. You have on the left, in red, in front of La Panne and Nieuport, the geometry expressed on the North Sea of future offshore installations that will be granted on the basis of public contracts. You can see that everywhere else there are a lot of functions in the North Sea. This is not indicated, but there is a place where mustard gas munitions were spilled. There's the natural area of the Zwin. There are Natura 2000 areas. There are areas reserved for fishing and areas reserved for shipping. All this makes our North Sea start to be filled like an egg. In doing so, according to my calculations, apart from a band of 85 km2 that could be imagined in addition to the delimited red zone to the left of the image you see, we will have to start counting on – and this is already the case in the Elia pipe – an offshore interconnection with other offshore parks developed in the countries around us. This also raises the question of agreements with these countries in terms of exchange of statistics. Indeed, if renewable electricity is important for the country in whose sea it is produced, that country will not necessarily want to offer us its statistics because we would suddenly have totally renewable current transported by a line allowing us to clearly identify it. This is a detail, but it still matters for the future. I'd like you to understand that we're talking about the next 11 years. So not everything must be done for the day before yesterday, even if there is an emergency. It is a plan that is available in all European countries for the next ten years. That doesn't mean we have to hang out on the way. It is necessary to go as quickly as possible, but taking into account the technical contingencies. I recall that the benefit of the current coming from the North Sea is necessarily linked to the next ten years, during which – after recourse, the granting of permits and the construction of high-voltage lines – the transport of this energy will start from the coast to Avelgem (with the Ventilus project) and from Avelgem to Courcelles, in addition to our network, on the territory of the Walloon Region. The completion of this loop is estimated for 2028. You asked me, just to talk about the offshore, if we were going to reach the goals of the Federal Plan by 2030 – while the Regions have developed their program of onshore wind turbines, solar panels, biomass and God knows what else. The answer is yes, based on the planning we have developed at the federal level, by promoting the legislative framework for the new wind farm. We hope that public procurement can be launched in 2021 for the construction of parks by 2030. In parallel, the high-voltage power grid on our territory will be built by 2028. Then we'll be ready. Therefore, we will save a lot of greenhouse gases when this set is installed. It will also be necessary to change our energy mix towards more sustainability and cleanliness. If you don't mind, I'll respond by a bunch of questions. I now come to a subject which I handle much less: that of mobility, with rail transport. What have we planned in this area? Of course, I will not insult you to read what you are perfectly capable of reading yourself. With respect to rail transportation, what we have planned in the federal part of the National Energy-Climate Plan is detailed on pages 47 and 48. It is indicated in the smallest detail which lines will be reinforced, which investments will be made, both for the transport of persons and for the transport of goods. We can go back to the details if you wish. While I'm exposing the answers to your questions, dive into this document to question me if you can't find answers. If I am able, by questioning the Mobility Office, to answer you today, I will do so, as far as possible. But I repeat my suggestion: it is more practical, in this kind of situation, to have the Minister of Mobility next to himself. If you asked him, he would very willingly accept. The most important thing is that Europe's effort is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 35%, in non-TSS terms. Remember that non-ETS is mobility, energy efficiency and agriculture. The starting point for the effort of minus 35% that we have to make is a level of greenhouse gas emissions of about 77 million tonnes. That's the starting value. Today, we're 70 million. This means that the effort we have made is 7 million. It's not extraordinary. We are expected to reach 35 per cent, which is about 51 million, by 2030. The whole country, not just the federal government, must make an effort of 20 million. In 2030, what will be the savings, in millions of tonnes of CO2, achieved through the railway plan and mobility measures in transport, including renewables via biofuels? I requested calculations and audits of what was being implemented in the federal part of the plan. Indeed, I would like it to be over, that we have come the way, but we still have to do so. This will save 10.7 million tonnes of CO2 by 2030. That's half the national effort. It is not extraordinary, but it is an important figure that gives us to see our trajectory, knowing that the other half of the effort must be made by the Regions. However, we can clearly already say that by acting on mobility in a very strong way with the Regions, we reach a very interesting value, since we manage to reduce greenhouse gases in non-TSS by almost half of what we need to do. We are acting very strongly on the energy efficiency of buildings, especially in the regions, but we are also doing so at the level of federal buildings, by placing electricity and compressed gas charging stations on federal territories, or on which federal buildings are built. We are also ensuring that 50% of these federal buildings become energy efficient and highly isolated, which is also reflected in the federal part of the plan. Some of you have told me that they believe that, in relation to the recommendations of the European Commission, I was not there and I was not moving fast enough. I cannot agree with this feeling, although I understand that it is expressed and that we can live it as such. The President pointed out that we took the bull by the horns and made sure, by working really hard, that our plan was up to Europe's demands and recommendations to make a considerable effort at the federal level to get into the nails in terms of reducing greenhouse gases. As for the offshore, you see the limits of the exercise. You know that we have nevertheless succeeded in a very nice negotiation with the last three offshore parks that are on the right ahead of Knokke-Heist and that will be built for 2020. We also thought - this is part of the governance and citizen inclusion measures - to reduce the support for the offshore that was too fat. We have degreased it and, through a good negotiation, we have reduced it by EUR 4 billion over 20 years, which makes a considerable savings for consumers. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to the last speech on Courtrai and to a certain Italian aircraft which landed on Flemish territory. It would be a good tone to ensure that all levels of power... I have just recalled the federal's ability to act for the offshore but it also has an ability to act in relation to Elia, the transmission system operator that obviously charges fees to all consumers in this country. Distribution system operators, on the other hand, obviously impact the consumer's bill sometimes differently depending on the regions. There is also the negotiating capacity of regional governments for those who place renewable electricity generation on regional soil, i.e. onshore wind turbines and policies to support photovoltaic panels. Should I recall that there have been disastrous differences in the north and south of the country in terms of excessive generosity in supporting the installation of photovoltaic panels on residential buildings. More than two billion if I remember well in the north of the country and 1.8 billion in the south of the country. Economically, all those who make a little savings know that the money that has gone will not come back! It will therefore have to be absorbed and included to smooth it over time in all consumer bills. That is already the case. The issue of dividends to intercommunals also arises. You can't want the butter, the butter money and the creamy smile! It's way too much! A transition is also a path of transformation. I come back to the notion of speed. This does not mean that we need to slow down but to think intelligently about a speed that the economy is able to absorb, that consumers - customers like you and me - companies and municipalities - through the dividends of the intercommunals - are able to absorb. I think that all that is in this plan is already a very detailed first state of an intelligent forecast that wants to go fast, while not going too fast, to be ready with the demands that are made to us in reduction of greenhouse gases by 2030. I now turn to the regional plans on which I move very quickly. I only know two of them for now: the Brussels plan and the Walloon plan. I am waiting like you on Friday – since I have been very wise, I will probably have a present – for the part of the National Energy-Climate Plan of the Flemish Region. These days, I meet with Zuhal Demir to discuss it, including to discuss the letter she sent me on 21 November. It included elements that had already been described earlier by its predecessors. I take the leading example: the lowering of VAT for the demolition and reconstruction of buildings. If I'm not mistaken, today's rate is 21%. You already have an answer in the Plan, on page 37. It states that "the generalisation of the scope of a reduced VAT rate of 6% for demolition and reconstruction for private housing, currently in force for 32 cities, is possible if the European Commission sees this measure as a major contribution to achieving the Belgian target for energy efficiency". So we're open. This simply means that – and you certainly have not forgotten – when we return our National Energy-Climate Plan by 31 December, together with the Flemish part that we are going to aggregate there, the European Commission will examine our plan, as well as the 27 others, and will let us know what it thinks, after taking a tour of the capitals, as it has already done on several occasions in the Clean Energy Package, to see how all this is going to live in practice in the country. This will enable the European Commission to have a thorough knowledge of the concrete translation of the plan they have received from each European country. Besides, there's a monitoring of this Plan. Thus, by 2024, at the latest, there will be a review of the degree of progress and implementation of the plans which should lead us to consider that we need to move forward, that we need to realize step by step, as quickly as possible, to be back in the nails when we have this monitoring with which there will be a greenhouse gas reporting. As you know, this reporting exists in Belgium. It is provided to us about every two years. Next year, I will be in possession of the one from 2017-2019 which shows how we navigate and whether we move in the path. If this is not the case, stronger and more accelerated measures will have to be taken. I am trying to make you understand that a plan is still moving forward; it must not be frozen as if we were not able to do so at the time we were presenting it. It is designed to meet the demands we want to meet in 2030. I have been asked questions about the recent statements made by both on the issue of nuclear exit. I see the president frowns on the eyebrows. But, Mr President, the Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander De Croo, has, according to the press, left the door open for the extension of two of the youngest nuclear power plants to take the course of 2025. That's what he said. I read it. I can only read and listen to what is said. It's a first thing. Secondly, Jean-Pascal van Ypersele is an important figure in the fight against global warming, particularly because of his membership in the international group of climate experts. This group has been mandated for a long time to make reports, which are expected each time with great interest, on the evolution of climate change and on the efforts we must make to address it, particularly at the international level. This led to the Paris Agreement, which was drawn up on the basis of this work. Mr van Ypersele also said that, in terms of CO2 emissions, it might be advantageous in the electricity mix to possibly extend the life of certain power plants. Maybe he's more nuanced than that. He adds that we lost time. I would remind you, however, that some of us here have wasted a lot of time. Those who lived in the commission under the previous legislature include me at 200%! The capacity compensation mechanism (CRM) came late only because others, who are smiling at the moment, Mr Wollants, have prevented us from moving too fast in this area. Indeed, they wanted to load the boat with the energy standard you mentioned earlier. Finally, this may not be the right concept we should use to preserve the competitiveness of our companies in this country. I have an idea about this and we can discuss it one day if you ask me the question of adventure. As you said, gas is very competitive and our companies would do well to draw on it by using the capacities of gas – in terms of storage – with, on a limited and non-general level, the use of water electrolysis, therefore hydrogen, with a renewable energy production associated with it. I'm going to nuclear. It is a complex subject that raises many questions. What's my vision? It's very simple. It is linked to a government agreement that, out of loyalty and loyalty, I am still executing, as I have done for five years. I remember that Alexander De Croo was very angry at me at the beginning of the legislature in 2014, because, having studied the file, I had said that we might not be able to get out of nuclear power in 2025. I got burned! I thought that by working, I would find the solutions and I obviously found them. But we are constantly re-evaluating these solutions. This is how I observe the evolution of certain minds. For my part, I will do what is necessary to accompany the next government agreement in the direction that it will follow, as I continue to do with the one I am implementing. Very quickly, I realized that I had to go on a forced march - and I have constantly worked on it, despite those who have been slowing me down - so that Belgium of tomorrow, the one of the next federal government, will have all the tools in order to choose with full knowledge of the cause how to respect three fundamental and intangible parameters. I am talking about security of supply, the need for clean energy and the cost to the consumer. These three aspects go through the National Energy-Climate Plan as we have relied on the five dimensions of the Energy Union to draft it. From this point of view, we are therefore in line with the European Union. Like you, I hear and read everything that is said and written, and then I leave it in a corner of my mind. This December 3, I present to you a plan that was adopted by the federal government without any restrictions on Friday, November 29. A mission was assigned to me, and I did it. If the next government decides on another mission, I will accompany it to ensure that it is carried out. I'm not explaining to you that I'm a soldier. No one would believe it; we're not going to lie to each other. I'm a loyal man! I will always put my energy at the service of the loyalty of an agreement and that is why I continue to work in this agreement today! Don't worry, make yourself comfortable! For those who have concerns about CO2, concerns about the cost of the capacity compensation mechanism, such a mechanism is first of all a technologically neutral tool, i.e. it is aimed at all technologies as long as they are not already subsidized. It is even aimed at renewable energy technologies if they are no longer subsidized at the time when project offerers want to enter this mechanism. The European Commission, which works in interaction with me on this capacity compensation mechanism, goes so far. I can even tell you that it was on his impulse that we went so far because, at the outset, I thought that it was absolutely necessary to avoid oversubsidiations and that we had to make a big impermeable line between renewable energies, which are abundantly subsidized - I have already explained - and all the ones we need - I will explain why - for a balanced mix and which do not find their market or their profitability. All this to get out of the strategic reserve because Europe is asking us to. It tells us that we can no longer have a strategic reserve in 2022-2023 because it is not a real market. We must therefore return to the market and if energy is needed according to our sovereign choices, we will have to be able to organize things so that they have the opportunity to work in the market. Hence the establishment of a capacity compensation mechanism for demand management, renewable energy production, conventional thermal production - as we no longer have coal, gas - which is intended for storage, i.e. for all possibilities of energy production. This capacity compensation mechanism will also apply to gas-fired power plants. Never forget that a gas power plant, especially with the level of technical performance with combined cycles, has a production reactivity that is not comparable to that of nuclear power plants. It is all the more valuable in our national market, in our national territory, that we cannot always rely on interconnections, even if they are numerous and there is a development plan for them, and that we have more and more renewable and more decentralized productions. All these factors of imbalance must be able to be offset - I would remind you that renewables are being injected into the grid first - by very reactive energy production, as is the case with gas. The capacity compensation mechanism is therefore fundamental. That is why I continue to work on it to move as far as possible in order to provide, as I have already said, the next coalition with all the necessary tools. That's for nuclear power. I have heard many questions about support and subsidies for electromobility. We must know that under this legislature we have already started to reflect, in a drastic way, on the paradigm shift between the company car or the pay car – it is not quite the same – and mobility more compatible with our environment. With the "cash for car" system or the mobility budget, we have already implemented, in our federal legislative arsenal, opportunities for diversification which must gradually lead to a greening of transport. But it is necessary – you have seen it well and it is repeated – to have an inter-federal plan in this area with the Regions because it is they too who, in their territory, will have the hand, the largest and most efficient, for the implementation of electric charging stations and compressed gas charging stations. They also have in their plan, which came directly from the inter-federal energy pact that I concluded with them in 2017, constraints that they impose on the inhabitants of the regions by saying: "We will ban diesel engines at such a time", "We will ban petrol engines at such a time", etc. This is linked, on the one hand, to their concern to green mobility in their skills and, on the other hand, to a plan to implement charging stations. You understand that it is not with the territory of federal buildings scattered on Belgian territory that I will contribute, at the federal level, in an essential way to the installation of these terminals, in addition to all the measures that I can take in taxation, for example concerning company cars. I explained to you that further reflection was needed on this. Let's talk about the road tax and the road tax. I assume you have held that they are now in the hands of the Regions. A significant part of the taxation linked to individual mobility is in the hands of the Regions. Even if we can regret this plan, saying we're going to make a plan again and we're going to delay again... we're not delaying. We're trying to organize things so that all of our country's entities work hard to achieve a goal. In fact, François Bellot had tried to propose a plan to the regional mobility ministers of the previous regional governments. Unfortunately, Ministers of Mobility have refused to work on this inter-federal plan. This proposal is therefore stillborn. We have to take her back. I hope that with the new Ministers for Regional Mobility, we will be able to move in that direction. That seems essential to me. If we have succeeded in an inter-federal energy pact on energy and climate in 2017, and on all the trajectories, federal and regional, to follow until 2050, it seems to me that we will be able to draw lessons for an inter-federal pact on mobility, which is very necessary for us. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about hydrogen, since I've been asked a question about hydrogen. You have seen in the plan submitted to you, on page 57, that, with regard to investments, it is a question of ensuring that for the deployment of alternative fuels, there are sufficient CNG and electricity recharges. I've already talked about it. But efforts are also being made to support research and development in hydrogen and green gas. You see that private funding is already accounted for as such, as there are projects in this area, as you know. At the federal level, we must not lose sight of the fact that the Energy Transition Fund that I have created, which includes the fee which is the counterpart of the extension of Doel 1 and Doel 2, is used for innovative energy production projects. Therefore, all hydrogen research and development projects can submit a file every year until 2025 to try to get the funds needed to pay the researchers to move forward in this direction. We therefore also have this possibility at the federal level. A question was asked about biofuels. I suppose you've read, Mrs Daems, I think, the biofuel pages. We are well aware that there are contraindications and obstacles with regard to the natural materials used in the manufacture of biofuels and food. However, the European Commission is asking us to make an effort at this level. We have made this effort – there is some pros and cons, so I find it a little curious – at 12,2 and not until 14, especially because in our territory, we have companies that have not yet profitable the investments made for the production of first-generation fuels. Therefore, going from 7% at once, then to 8% and then to 12.2% so quickly, with a different quality requirement for the second generation, which is apparently less contested, is difficult for our companies too. A whole chapter of our plan concerns the right transition. It has to be just for everyone. Not only for the consumer but also for businesses. It is therefore clear that this is not a lobby issue. You know, I've been seeing lobbies every day, morning, noon and night for five years. All this doesn't change my nature. I always try to explain to them that it is nice to come to me to ask for money but that I should first know the interest of the project put forward. This analysis is always carried out with everyone, with the same rigour, by putting everyone on an equal footing. I understand, however, that companies in our territory are trying to create, starting with natural materials, the biofuels that Europe is asking us to inject into our products and that they are trying to create a sector in this field. These companies must also find themselves there and not put the key under the doormat just after starting their business. There are some in the north and south of the country. No one was harmed. Maybe there are some questions I've forgotten. I'm at your disposal, if you have time, until 4:00 p.m. If you have any further questions, don't hesitate to come back to me. I'll take notes on the second round of questions. I've probably forgotten. Come back, I'll be happy to answer it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u19	Thank you for your comprehensive explanation, Madam Secretary. I shall begin with the questions to which you have not yet answered. I shall then make a few comments. As far as the public consultation is concerned, the Regulation on Governance and Climate provides in Article 10 that Member States should organise a public survey on the design of National Energy and Climate Plan, which has taken place, as well as on the final plan and the long-term strategy. Neither the final plan nor the long-term strategy were the subject of public interviews. I wonder if the NKC explicitly decided not to do so. It is absolutely a missed opportunity, because if we want to do climate policy, we need enormous support. The whole transition to a carbon-neutral society will be the biggest project of the century. We had a very inspiring meeting here about the climate tables. Well, this is how the project was built in the Netherlands. Stakeholders, citizens and businesses have been brought together to assess with the government what were the most cost-effective measures with the greatest impact. The public consultation on the draft plan was, in that sense, only a first step, which led to a great deal of reactions. More than 60,000 people completed the survey and more than 20,000 people made additional comments, showing that there is strong support for a number of measures. Policy makers, legislators and performers need exactly such support in order to actually initiate the transition. I'd like to come back to my question as to what happened to the public consultation. How have the results been processed? Is the public consultation still attached to the plan submitted? Why is there no public consultation on a long-term strategy, on the one hand, and the final plan, on the other? Then I have a question about the long-term strategy. It is to be submitted on 1 January 2020. That's the day after December 31st. We talked for a long time about the National Energy and Climate Plan on 31 December. We haven't talked about 1 January 2020. However, that's just the day after. Last week you refused to answer my questions because last Friday you were going to discuss the NEKP and the long-term strategy with the government. You have now only communicated about the NEKP. That is also the only document we received in preparation for our meeting. Was a decision taken in the government on the long-term strategy? If it hasn't been taken yet, when has it? What's the status? This also includes the objectives to be pursued in the long-term strategy. If you meet Mrs Demir for consultation on the NEKP one of these days, will you also talk about the long-term strategy? Is there a coordination between the different regions and the federal government? Of course, this long-term strategy also has an impact on the content of the NEKP. One of my questions was how these two are aligned. You have said that you cannot dispute this and that the only objective that has been anchored is the minus 35% for what is non-ETS. However, if we are to present a long-term strategy for a carbon-neutral society the day after 31 December 2019, on 1 January 2020, we must also examine the target of minus 35%. The reduction of 35% may then have to be greater in order to achieve the objective of carbon neutrality by 2050. So it's hard for us to hike on two legs there. As far as the nuclear trip is concerned, you said that you are sticking to what was decided. On the one hand, there is the decision on the minus 35% at European level. At European level, there is an increase in ambition, in which there is almost no target for 2030 and for 2050. If you submit a long-term strategy with carbon neutrality, you will have to stick to it, which in fact will mean an increase in ambition by 2030. But maybe I should have started my whole explanation with something else.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u20	If you'd like to start over, I haven't heard your last sentences.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u21	Madam Minister, if you put forward a long-term strategy based on carbon neutrality by 2050, then the policy you are pursuing will have to be in line with that. The only percentage that has been decided is a 35% reduction by 2030. At that rate, you may find it difficult to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. In fact, this should lead to an increase in ambition. Considering both plans side by side, I think it's a rather conservative attitude to just fold back on that 35% reduction. Before you interrupted me, I thought maybe I should have asked you whether or not the federal government will submit a federal contribution as part of the long-term strategy. I can then ask what this contribution looks like and how it will be aligned with the regions in order to come up with an integrated plan. In your reply, you said that you will come back later on to the way in which you will integrate the sub-plans. All the institutions and actors we have heard here in the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan have put emphasis on federal cooperation, the need for cooperation between the Regions and the federal government, and the need for a truly integrated plan. That was also one of the recommendations of the European Commission. Unless I am mistaken, you have not gone into that point in more detail. There are several sub-plans for this, which is simply a result of the organisation of our country. That's a finding, not a reproach. However, I would like to hear from you how you will ensure that these different plans are integrated. Since we still have to wait for the Flemish plan, it will be a difficult exercise, unless the four ministers sit together in Madrid next week to work on a sufficiently integrated plan. I would also like to comment on the offshore. Firstly, I do not wish to leave any doubt that our country should be proud of what it has achieved on offshore. We must therefore consider or reflect on the way in which we have got there. The chairman of the committee, who is from West Flanders, knows very well how this has been achieved. It was actually the dream of one man, who would build windmills at sea and had not been distracted by all the sticks that were stuck in the wheels from the beginning. For example, there was an 80-year-old woman complaining that her vision would be obstructed and that she would see those windmills. There were different procedures for the Council of State. That one man, the late Filip Martens, could also count on a number of companies around him, such as DEME and 3E, but also on the banks, which for the first time financed such a project, although they did not know what they were starting. He was also able to count on a number of law firms, such as Loyens & Loeff. Around the dream of one man a group was gathered, who was willing to build the windmills. That has been the starting point of where we stand today. What you're explaining is entirely true. The dossier has been followed for a long time, subsidies have fallen, there has always been good dialogue with the sector and the Stevin project has come. We have come a good way in this respect. We all know that we can go even further, because the sector tells us. We can't let go. We share the determination of public acceptance, as well as the need to implement the high-voltage lines and grid reinforcements. Today we are in a situation where the easy projects have already been implemented, but now there are a number of more difficult issues. However, we must be able to find the same voluntarism. Maybe we should reconsider things and ask ourselves whether we can't connect to Doel or Borssele, and whether there are other alternatives. You have rightly referred to the other regions. It seems to me that it is time to say within Innover that this is a project of strategic importance for the country in terms of energy security, sustainability and cost. We all know that the offshore can run in baseload and will provide very competitive prices for our companies and especially those companies that need baseload capacity. But imagine if we could connect the offshore in Doel, where the large petrochemical cluster is located, then perhaps a lot of questions from the companies present today in the port of Antwerp would have been solved. One reason to be proud of what we have achieved is that our people here, the Belgians who live in this country, are the first to reap the benefits of it. Training, employment, what was achieved throughout the West Flemish region, is due to a choice of, on the one hand, companies that wanted to start something innovative and, on the other hand, a government that wanted to support and grow that. There is also a very nice example of last week from abroad, namely Eneco that was taken over by Mitsubishi. Mitsubishi has paid a very high amount, more than EUR 4 billion. Why did Mitsubishi buy Eneco? For the expertise in offshore. The Netherlands, like us, has opted for a leading role in offshore. Mitsubishi wants to develop offshore on its home markets in America and Japan. There are always people who say that we should follow, but in Belgium opting for a forerunner role is for our citizens and for our country. Look at the Netherlands, a very concrete example. In the short term, Dutch taxpayers will benefit from the fact that the Netherlands has ever opted for a leading role on offshore. I think we can do that again in this country. We're already working on it, but if we're about to turn into a carbon-neutral society, we're going to have to start the biggest transition ever. We will have to make the biggest changes. Examples such as offshore prove that we can do that if we want to. It places particular emphasis on cooperation and voluntarism. We should not do anything foolish. We shouldn't do things that are priceless. We must not do anything that puts us out of economic and social reality. But we can achieve that with the necessary coolness. In that sense, I'd like to hear you speak. If you tell us about your climate plan, you are very enthusiastic and voluntaristic, including in the newspapers. The coverage in the newspapers last weekend was very positive and hopeful. But if I put the text next to it, I'm gonna sit on my hunger. I refer, for example, to stopping subsidies for pollution, as I said earlier. You will get no further than a year to draw up a list and then a year to draw up an action plan. We do not have the urgency to move forward faster. I would also like to say something about the nuclear trip. I didn't say anything about it initially, but everyone here has talked about the core exit. I didn't say anything about it earlier because it's not the right starting point. The right starting point is what you said yourself, namely that a decision has been made. The other point of departure is the question of where we want to stand in 2050. I don't hear that much difference. We can discuss the objective, whether it should be carbon neutral or minus 80%, but everyone agrees that we should be carbon neutral by then or even completely carbon neutral. The sector itself is pushing ahead with wanting to be carbon neutral by 2040. We must then see how we can best get there. You yourself rightly said that if renewable energy is to grow significantly, what is expected and also demonstrated by the prospectus of Bloomberg Finance, there will be a need for controllable capacity. Nuclear power can't deliver that controllable capacity today. If we take it seriously, if we want to achieve transition and move towards a carbon-neutral society, then nuclear energy, even in the short term, is not a solution, because in the short term we will have to take a big flight and we will need technologies to support it. The three aspects are important: cost, sustainability and security of supply. We have here in committee, both within the framework of the National Energy and Climate Plan and within the framework of security of supply and the CRM, received various representations that indicate that this is actually possible. Other than that, the Planning Bureau is also assuming that. Even the scenarios used in the National Energy and Climate Plan are based on this. Also with the nuclear exit we can be carbon neutral by 2050, of course also because we have policies that transcend Belgium. The European Emissions Trading System provides the necessary nuances. Jean-Pascal Van Ypersele's position is not new in itself. He has been saying since 2007 that he is in favour of nuclear renewal. He explained on Twitter that this was one of his minority views at the time. To prove that, he added a screenshot of the relevant footnote in the IPCC report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u22	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u23	He himself confirms that he has not changed his position. However, between 2007 and now there has been a nuclear extension with the same arguments: working on the alternatives. In fact, you said yourself that you would implement the coalition agreement. You arrived after the nuclear renewal. You have said: there is the exit, there is a timing, I am going to stick to that. What did I do? I just did my job. As part of the decision, I looked for alternatives, for the policy instruments that allow us to implement that exit in 2025. You said that I succeeded. I have made sure that Belgium has everything in its hands to ensure that the exit can be completed by 2025. So my conclusion is that the extension did not contribute to many alternatives. What we needed, above all, was a policy that was taken over and that provided alternatives. That is also what we need to do for the core trip. It does not give us anything to continue to reopen the discussion and to continue to raise doubts. All we have to do is stick to the decisions we have made and implement them. Then we will go to a decentralised society where citizens and businesses will be at the heart of the transition and where we will go to sharing the proceeds between citizens and businesses and no longer sharing profits with a company. This change may require courage and asks us to go beyond our ordinary frameworks of thought, but I am convinced that if we want to do so, we have already decided together that we want to do so, and act accordingly, this is possible, as you yourself have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u24	Madam Minister, I will be brief because Mrs van der Straeten has already given many elements of reply that I also wanted to give. I have not heard much about the long-term strategy in your reply, Madam Minister. I agree with the honourable Member's questions. We are also concerned about the strong integration, a concern shared by Europe in the past. I also had a question about the carbon price. In the meantime, I had found the part of the plan that deals with that, but that's very thin. There is only reference to an investigation. Little has changed there compared to the previous plan, I think. What is the purpose of the structural consultation structure? What is the vision for this plan? Will it be redirected in the future? In what way are people involved? Are there any ideas about that? I have two further comments on the nuclear power plants. You have indeed said it, the coalition agreement was very clear. I hear you say here that your coalition partners have not always been very constructive. What amazes me, in particular, is that some people seem to be pleased that we have to discuss here today whether or not we need these old power stations. Everyone knows by now that nuclear energy is a source of energy of the past and not a source of energy of the future, not just by combining it with green electricity. I listened very carefully to the Dutch who spoke about the Climate Agreement. He has said that it can be done in the Netherlands, that no investor is thinking today about investing in nuclear energy. It is a source of the past and we should not be pleased that we are still having the debate today. As far as we are concerned, the nuclear power stations must be shut down as soon as possible, but I do agree with one thing. If Mr Wollants says that the alternative is new gas plants that we will support for 15 years, then that is not something that we will be very happy about. What is one of the most important decisions in this plan for us and for me is the complete dismantling of fossil fuel support. I think it is particularly important to make that change. I think it is good that it is in the plan, but it is only a little thin today. It says that we will make an inventory and draw up action plans. I would have liked us to be a little further on that, because we already know very well today what the debate is about and where the problems are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I listen to everyone here, it seems to me that a lot of people in this Chamber are beginning to turn their backs on the key road. I'm noticing that. I have also heard a number of things here that raise major questions, for example that the coalition agreement was very clear on the core exit. In the coalition agreement, conditions were laid down under which conditions that core exit could be achieved. That was also in the federal energy strategy, by the way. Those were terms, but they were never implemented. Then I hear from the Minister that I apparently have a remote control hidden somewhere in my bookcase that I can put her on standby, because when I speak, she stops working. I also hear her say that the previous committee here was very well aware of how things are going and who has slowed down some things. Colleagues, I think there are only two people here today who were on that previous committee, and one of them is Minister. I think it's a very strange thing to do. I think there is absolutely room for this extension, because when I look at the facts, at the way in which the file is further unfolded, I see some very striking observations. With regard to the auctions for the capacity mechanism, for example, I note that the CREG expects that no new gas plants will be put into operation. At times when we were faced with negative electricity prices in our country, nuclear power stations were cut back, but the gas plants continued to operate. We have also held hearings in the Chamber on, among other things, demand management and storage. I can see that there are a lot of excuses being cited, but the spirits are ripening, and that may be enough to keep the debate open and ensure that we do not pay too much for our energy in the future and go in the right direction. Some colleagues I hear refer to the Netherlands. With all due respect, the Netherlands has one nuclear power plant and has extended its lifespan by 20 years. In the current state of affairs, the nuclear power plant remains open longer than all our Belgian nuclear power plants, despite the fact that the Dutch power station is older. The Netherlands does not seem to me to be the best example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u26	Mr. Wollants, allow me to respond to that. Of course, keeping existing power stations open is always a lot cheaper, I believe. What I meant was that we also need to be able to look to the future, and in that respect nobody is thinking about new nuclear power plants. The CEO of ENGIE Electrabel says that nuclear energy is cheap, but we also know what the reason is: the nuclear power plants have been paid off for a long time and we have paid heavily for it. That's how I can do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u27	Mr Verduyckt, this gives you the perfect argument for extending the opening time of our nuclear power plants. I note that in the past it has often been said that there may be a need for this. N-VA is often accused of constantly changing its mind. Madam Minister, you may remember with which election programme you went to vote in 2014. In 2014, the MR programme provided for the extension of four nuclear power plants by a minimum of 10 years. In that respect, I think that some continuity would not be bad. Madam Secretary, if you say that too much has been spent on solar panels and that sort of thing, then I share that opinion. We have waited far too long to reduce this support. However, I also remember the day on which we began the effective phasing-out of this aid. Contrary to what I am hearing here all of a sudden, I remember a joint press release from Green and Open Vld, which talked about holding-up on the sector, which would be put on dry seed. Today, Mr President, I hear a different noise. You have very high expectations in Mrs Demir. I do, but I have to say that the previous three Energy Ministers, from Open Vld-signature, did not take that step at Flemish level. (Protests from Mr Van Quickenborne) Let us be honest, Mr President. If you say that there are too many things in the invoice and that you expect something from Mrs Demir, then I can imagine that Mrs Peeters, Mr Tommelein or Mrs Turtelboom could have done something about it. I am certainly pleased that you are looking at the yellow block to deal with these matters. We shall see where we can find it. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate will certainly continue. There is absolutely a need for a rational view of the story. If the proposal on the CRM is still intended to build nine new gas plants, then I think we are on the wrong track. A few weeks ago, I was allowed to represent our committee and Parliament at an energy conference in Finland, where the clear and clear message was that we absolutely must ensure that nuclear power stations remain open as long as possible, if we want fossil-free energy quickly. That message was received on applause by the Finnish Greens. We therefore have no lessons to learn in this area. There are, however, a number of examples that allow us to go further. We must also examine how we can move forward as quickly as possible with the development of offshore windmill projects. I am therefore concerned about what happens to Ventilus, among other things. We may soon have a proper hearing to look at the possibilities in this area. There is a possibility, but I do not quite see how the Netherlands was the leader in this, Mrs Van der Straeten. Agreed, one has placed offshore windmills good for 300 megawatts in 2008, but one has then completely stopped until the year 2015, when the offshore projects were rolled out here. It is also the reason why, in my view, we are currently ranked a step higher than the Dutch at the moment, when it comes to the amount of offshore wind energy, in the North Sea or in general. So we have taken absolute steps, but it is possible to ask whether the first parks already had the efficiency and density with which they would be built today. We paid for a piece of tuition. After that one can do business with it. I wonder if it'll be fast enough. We would bear in mind the example of the Dutch, who would build wind farms without subsidies. Today we are not doing these studies and we are not preparing them. So we probably won't be able to hold that auction at the set time. I think that's the biggest challenge. This must be linked to the fact that the Dutch still do not have an obligation to build the windmills effectively. If an allocation is made, assuming that the windmills will be built, if the energy price is high enough and the plans will remain in the fridge, then of course there are few guarantees for the development of renewable energy. We need to think carefully about how we will deal with this. I note, however, that despite the fact that there were a lot of reservations about this at the beginning, the committee still has a great deal of work ahead of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u28	Mr President, I shall try to be brief. On the issue of nuclear power, I am perhaps too new in this Parliament, but I still cannot understand how the Paris objectives can be achieved when one of the answers to the exit from nuclear power, to which I am also in favour, is the construction of gas-fired power plants that emit CO2. I don't understand that equation. Président: Tinne Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u29	The answer is a considerable increase in renewables in the Regions and in energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u30	Except we're going to cap...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u31	It's a compensation. I'll answer you directly. I asked the regions clearly what they were able to do on the path up to 2050 in the Interfederal Energy Pact. I told them that there was a question of the federal legal framework for shutting down nuclear power generation and asked them whether they were for or against it. All three responded that they considered that they should keep this limit in time as intangible. In these circumstances, I do not have 36 possibilities to ensure what we tend to forget here in the explanations of the "success story" mentioned by Mrs Van der Straeten. We tend to forget that we always need a load base capacity, that is, a strong, dense load capacity that provides the base, as the name indicates. Indeed, this capacity can only be generated by the least CO2-producing energy but which is still fossil, i.e. gas. We abandoned coal in 2016 and joined an international coalition of high ambition for the abandonment of coal. There is therefore no other possibility. We need to grow these two vectors. With the tools I had at that time, I had to make that choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u32	It's a paradoxical choice, let's agree!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u33	This is indeed a paradoxical choice and I have recalled it many times. But you can count on me to figure it out where you need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u34	We agree. You can count on me, too. Thank you for your reply on this point. As far as biofuels are concerned, you have simply said that the objective should be maintained or even increased, perhaps not in the proportions required by Europe, but on the pretext that investments made by companies are not yet amortised. Let me tell you that I find the argument a little light. If there is a consensus in civil society that biofuels are not a good option, I believe that we need to hear it a little better and to develop other alternatives here too. I also asked about the air sector. I had pointed out that this sector was mentioned in a chapter on taxation. I was wondering if any particular taxation was being considered. I am bouncing on another question put by a colleague from Ecolo, to whom I have not heard an answer, on the development of alternatives to air transport through international rail. Do you have an answer on this? I took my notes back from Mr. Van Huffel. I note in his remarks something that echoes one of my questions about all the issues involved in trade agreements, free trade agreements, etc. He explained to us that carbon adjustment at borders was also possible, that the issue of carbon could be taxed at Europe's borders, that it was compatible with WTO rules. I really think that the increase in our CO2 emissions and CO2 emissions around the world has also coincided with the development of international trade and free trade, which is a little too anarchic and poorly regulated. This is really something we need to think about for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u35	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I personally am absolutely not the man of polarization and I am not married to any technology either. Nevertheless, I must take the following from the heart. I will briefly paraphrase Van Ypersele. Many of the things that I have heard here in the last 15 minutes or 20 minutes are quite similar. I quote: 'The end of the nuclear era will be triggered by economic reasons and not ideological ones.' I have heard a very heavy ideological determination from many Members here. After all, what is the reality? There are, of course, Elijah's study and the CREG study. But in the neighbouring countries, the controllable capacity will be reduced. The curve track of Francorchamps is used, which is normal. Everyone is aware that an extension of the life of the two youngest nuclear power stations is insisting. These nuclear power plants are steerable and their capacity can be reduced to half, Mrs van der Straeten, and they are perfectly compatible with renewable energy production. Extending the lifespan calls for three principles: a reasonable price for consumers, sustainability and security of supply; you mentioned them yourself, Madam Secretary. By the way, you warned there at the beginning of the legislature for the purpose of doing so, this was not repeated here: we would not be ready in time for the full nuclear exit in 2025, the scenario that is now coming towards us. That is indeed a reality that we have been predicting for a long time with Mr Wollants' party. I am not saying whether Mr Wollants' party has made the complete nuclear exit difficult. Mr Wollants referred to Finland, where the Finnish Greens have already seen it. In recent times, more and more voices have been voiced that nuclear production can play a role in the energy transition and in achieving the climate objectives. Please don't think about it ideologically anymore. Within my party, I have been arguing for years not to think ideologically about renewable energy production. For me, all that can go together perfectly. It's an en-en-story. Madam Minister, on the CRM, I believe that if the two youngest nuclear power plants are to be extended, a smaller CRM is needed without new gas plants. A CRM will be needed in the light of what is happening abroad around us. That makes sense. The discussion will focus on questions such as: which CRM? What's the size of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u36	Minister, thank you for your responses to the NCP. With regard to nuclear energy, I am surprised that my colleagues are surprised by Mr van Ypersele's statements because they are based on the conclusions of the IPCC report! Madam Minister, I welcome the consistency that you have shown in this matter, since since the beginning of these hearings, you have told us that the course is the release of nuclear power in 2025 with the implementation of a CRM and the possibility of the construction of gas-fired power plants. You've never left this course. Of course, in the impossible, no one is held and if we have to reassess this course, I imagine we will. I have two more very specific questions. I am not going to go back to institutional lasagna and cooperation between the different levels of power on the PNEC. How to organize between federated entities to have an effective implementation of this PNEC? How will this be followed up in the coming years, as it is a 2021-2030 NCP? How can we engage with our neighbouring countries in bilateral relations with a view to developing joint projects and implementing concrete measures? We talked about the railway and I think that there are things to do, like the Brussels-Vienna nightline that will open in 2020. How will we negotiate this with the other big cities, since we are in a European internal market?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u37	Madam Minister, I would like to come back to biofuels. As an argument to preserve first-generation biofuels, you argue that these companies have not yet made a profit on their investments. So we have to think about our companies. At the same time, you recognise that there are problems with that first generation of biofuels. May I conclude from this that you want to phase out these biofuels in the long term? I do not understand why you are increasing the ambition to 7%. After all, the European Commission does not require this. Furthermore, I have not received any answers to a number of questions concerning the overall renewable energy objective. In the meantime, I'm guessing you've got eyes on all the regional plans. What will be the ambition for renewable energy? What do you intend to do about subsidies for fossil fuels? The Flemish Government prohibits fuel oil boilers from 2021. Why are you waiting until 2035? Finally, like my colleagues from Green and sp.a, I would have liked to know the state of play of the long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u38	Madam Chair, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction when I discovered the document, and I found it to be quite complete. I would like to stress the scarcity of resources. When I see the amounts involved, especially for CRM, I want to tell you that we must invest once and for all, and try to make investments valid for the next forty or fifty years, until after 2050. CRM seems to me to be a time-limited solution, as defined. I am more inclined to speed up the installation of wind turbines in the North Sea. As long as you spend money, there may be work to be done on demand management. In terms of synthetic gas production, I see this as an opportunity for Belgium to become a leader in its field. With the help of Colruyt, companies are starting to manufacture green hydrogen gas. Swiss companies are developing CO2 capture and conversion to methane. The federal duty is to help research in this direction. It would be a great pride to become a leader at European level in the manufacture of synthetic gases. It is possible, and this would allow, at peaks of current production while demand is low in Europe, to maintain prices. This would help investors in the field of electricity, without costing the consumer or the country. These are the four points I wanted to highlight. I would like the fund to be invested in research and the establishment of pilot units for the transformation of CO2 from air to methane. This process already exists, but in the form of a pilot project. This process needs to be industrialized and the federal state can help, through federal research funds in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u39	Anyone else want to speak? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u40	Madam President, I will begin by replying to you as you are the first to speak. First of all, I have some information to share with you. I completely ignored the long-term strategy, not in my daily work but in my answers. This is an important part of the answers I have to give you today. In addition, this long-term strategy bears its name and is expected to lead to carbon neutrality in 2050. At the Belgian level, you know that things are always segmented and are never simple. I see that Brussels has already had its own since 7 November. I see that the Walloon Region will have it around December 12. And I see that Flanders is planning to have it around December 20; I told him it was too late. As far as the federal government is concerned, we have a document from the Climate Service and my collaborator has accompanied me so that you can have the latest update details. The first thing I must recall in this long-term strategy is that the federal government has no territory. You know that, but you have to realize that to get the right analysis. As a result, the federal government does not produce greenhouse gases. Asking the federal government to have a declining target up to the carbon neutrality of greenhouse gases is asking the wrong person. Of course, we have entered into a logic at the level of burden sharing since we concluded the burden sharing 2013-2020 in 2015. We have measures to support the Regions, but we have no objective to follow as such within the framework of the long-term strategy. You have to have this in mind to understand. Why ensure that Flanders returns its document to me as soon as possible? It is my intention to move Belgium's National Energy-Climate Plan and long-term strategy to the Consultation Committee on 18 December. As you pointed out: on January 1, 2020, it's the day after December 31, 2019... In a few hours, I won't be able to achieve a long-term strategy if I'm forced to work on it in the last days of December! So I have to anticipate and that's what I'm trying to do. It's not always simple, as you know, but it doesn't mean I won't get there. I've been working on a number of cases that are all more complicated than each other, and we've always done it. We will continue to do so. It is important to align the long-term strategy, until 2050, knowing that before that date – the second lapalissade – 2030 is. Therefore, inconsistencies in the National Energy-Climate Plan should not be introduced. Earlier, you spoke of a public inquiry that, in your opinion, should be conducted after the National Energy-Climate Plan has been finalized. We can devote ourselves to it in time and time. I recall that we have already conducted a public inquiry by consulting civil society, as well as another one aimed at the stakeholders, but also at our neighbours. This work has been synthesized by my administration, which has organized itself by public procurement to be helped. It appears from this summary that nine out of ten people were plebisciteing the offshore. Similarly, a majority of people called for an increase in biofuels and wanted more investment in rail. We followed these thousands of comments and used them to strengthen our positions and try to take them as far as possible. You're asking me to what extent I've taken that into account. I answer to you: to the greatest extent possible. With regard to more open questions, perhaps we have not explored everything in the smallest detail. We have tried to take over all the elements and breathe life into our work. The questions that you ask and that have been asked to me by others concern first, the integration of these different plans (regional and federal) into the implementation and, secondly, the work to be done between these two levels of power to achieve this path until 2030. On page 61 of the text relating to the federal part of the PNEC, there is a "governance" point whose objectives meet your concerns in terms of implementation for the future. As far as integration is concerned, Mrs Van der Straeten - this question has been asked for a long time by other parliamentarians, but I have not yet answered it - we will proceed with a synoptic table in which the CONCERE administration - a platform covering all the energy-climate administrations of the three regions and the federal government - works with an ad hoc group on the aggregation of these texts on the basis of a synoptic table containing, in the first column, the recommendation advocated by Europe, in the second, what it means precisely and, in the third column, the answer transmitted by the four plans in an aggregated text. Practically and quickly, because you realize that time is an essential part of the way we have received contributions to the Federal Energy-Climate Plan, one after the other. The Brussels Region was the first to make its contributions at the end of October; the Walloon Region adopted its plan last week; and the federal government is still waiting for that of the Flemish Region. As contributions, including those from the federal government, are received, the working group is working to implement them while acting on a thematic basis. It is therefore a safe and effective way to ensure that integration is maximum and homogeneous for the final text. As far as the long-term strategy is concerned, my collaborator will supplement the information on this point. I will continue to answer the other questions later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u41	Good morning, everyone. As Mrs Marghem said, Europe's long-term strategy calls for a definition of the targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Belgium's greenhouse gas emissions are the sum of emissions from the three regions: the federal government, as a building owner or tenant, emits greenhouse gases, but it is institutionally accounted for in the regions' accounts. The federal response is similar to that of the FNEC when it comes to supporting actions, but in this case, the long-term strategy requires the definition of objectives. In April, we met with the various federal and regional cabinets to define the working method for establishing this Belgian long-term strategy and we agreed that each Region would come with its own figures. The federal government also grants a federal contribution because the administration, the Climate service, has a calculator model for Belgium as a whole. This model follows developments throughout the country. The Federal Climate Administration was therefore making this model available to the Regions if they were to contribute to the creation of a national strategy. Some Regions were interested, others were not. We agreed that this model could be used or not. Finally, the Regions did not participate in this exercise to which they had been invited since April. But the Federal Climate Administration still exercised it on the Energy Pact database, which covers all entities. The output is a study that has been made available to Regions, administrations and firms. This suggests potentially interesting things that the Regions can draw on and can integrate into their long-term strategy. This is the most consistent way of working with the way Belgium is organised on this subject. With regard to consultation, Article 10 calls for consultations. At the April 2019 meeting with the other firms, it was indeed proposed to organize a national event, assuming that each entity, each Region would have its own strategy and that it would be represented in a common way. At the end of September, the inter-jurisdictional working group concluded that it would be difficult to conduct this exercise. At the National Climate Commission on 23 October, it was found that this type of event could not be organised, but each entity was invited to make the best use of the consultations already carried out in order to arrive at its transport plan. We're basing ourselves on that. Other Regions have incorporated into their long-term strategy the fact that there would be ongoing, regular consultation. I'm going to governance. Indeed, whether it is for the PNEC or for the long-term strategy, we are working with a group that brings together the administrations and firms that have the competence of climate and energy. It's already a step forward. A few years ago, climate administrations generally worked on one side and energy administrations on the other. Here, there is a sharing and monitoring of the work done on both sides. I think I've answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u42	I'm going on. You addressed the issue by telling the vision of those who wanted to develop the offshore in our country, and the risks they took, as well as those who did in other countries. You mentioned the result and the success they achieved. I didn't quite understand what you meant by the connection between the offshore and Doel. Forgive me. But you must have in mind, Mrs Van der Straeten, that there is a major defect inherent in the intermittent nature of renewables. This is not just about their intermittentness, but the consequence of it. We do not yet have the technology that allows us to store energy on a large scale. Research and development on storage at industrial level can be supported through the Energy Transition Fund, and this is what is being done. But we still don't have it, and according to some experts we won't have it for ten years. It's not for lack of faith. We believe in it and put the necessary means to support research and development, but until we do, we have to take account of the situation: the load rate for wind turbines is 40%, which is not bad in terms of the load rate for terrestrial wind turbines, which is only 25% over a year. Mr. Van Ypersele, like any scientist and academic personality, will always insert, in a series of reports, things that are obviously perfectly true. When we know the principles of elementary physics, we know, and this does not date from yesterday, that over a total lifetime, nuclear power plants produce less CO2 than gas-fired plants. This is true unless we still have to learn it... this knowledge is within everyone's reach. There is a lot of opacity and smoke maintained around this situation, which sometimes allowed young people to scroll by considering that uranium was a fossil fuel and that therefore nuclear power plants emit a lot of CO2. That's not true and arch-false. That is why I welcomed the WWF initiative which launched two explanatory sites for young people. This is in addition to my 'climate coach' initiative, which was declared unacceptable, intolerable and contemptuous by the PTB at the time I launched it, considering that I was taking young people for fools who did not need to be eventually informed about the world of energy and the fight against climate change. I'll close the parenthesis. I believe that every academic has a freedom of opinion, an ideological freedom. This ideological freedom is not always in phase with scientific truth at all times. I believe that in order to avoid criticism, any academic will always make sure to slide where it is necessary what the scientific truth says. There's nothing else to say. Things are changing, times are changing, people are saying things or refraining from saying things and, after abstaining, they say them again. That's how the world goes. I always have to comply with a political agreement. It is my job to work within the framework of this agreement and to support, if that is the case, the next agreement. On the other hand, within this agreement, I explained to you what I had done to bring things as far as possible to the greatest possible maturity in terms of the multiple and diverse legislative framework and policies in my jurisdictions so that the next government would have all the elements in its hands with full knowledge of the matter. Mr Verduyckt, I will explain why the carbon tax seemed unsatisfactory to you – and to myself – on page 54 of the document you received. In cross-cutting measures, it speaks of fiscal instruments and financial regulation. Please tell yourself that in the government agreement, there was no work, no reflection and no policy to be undertaken for the minister I was on carbon pricing. However, I found it very important to be concerned about it and to have a reflection on it, which is why, on the margins of the government agreement, I launched, for a year, a full-scale job. Academicians, stakeholders, civil society, NGOs, etc. together with the members of my Climate Department, have considered how we should and could consider, in our country, the recovery of non-ETS carbon dioxide emissions. In fact, ETS is covered in the European ETS market. There is therefore a very interesting amount of information that you can seize to start developing policies and guidelines. As it was not in the government agreement, I could not do it, but I felt it was important enough to take it back in the federal part of the National Energy-Climate Plan. I believe that this issue needs to be addressed in the next government. That's for sure. Mr Wollants, we have debated so much together for five years and we continue to do so with pleasure. We're not going to occupy space and time with what we have to say, you and me. We can do it at other times. As there was no question in your speech, I will confine myself to this consideration before proceeding to Mr. Ben Achour. Mr Ben Achour, as far as the alternative to air transport versus rail transport is concerned, we must first of all know that the air and maritime sectors are sectors which have always missed the ETS market, whereas they are heavily emitting CO2 and gaseous pollutants. That would therefore be a matter of concern. You have recently seen throughout this Parliament that there is an increasing number of international concerns. You don't have to think about it... yes, you can think about it in every country. There's nothing against it. Thinking is always a very important thing to conduct your action. It is preferable to do so before. But it goes far beyond our borders and the minimum is that we can talk about it at European level. At the international level, the federation of aircraft manufacturers – even if not the exact term – and the federation of shipping had decided to enter a more virtuous dynamic in a world where social and global pressure is increasing, so that the fuels they use can evolve. The company sends back the message that it is shameful to take the plane for short distances. These companies realize that if they're not up to speed with what their customers are asking them to do, they're going to miss the train – if I can say so. This applies to all companies. Those who will not move forward to succeed in a manufacturing process as cleanly as possible - which is a vector of prosperity for them and of their continued development - will unfortunately disappear. For short distances, rail transport...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u43	There was also the issue of taxation, minister. Should we wait for companies to evolve on their own, or will they be encouraged through specific taxation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u44	That's right, I forgot that aspect. You're right. We need to think about it. You know that some have spoken in this direction. However, it is not enough to think about it in Belgium; we must, at the very least, do so at European level. This reflection must be based on concrete facts: what are the journeys undertaken, how are the aircraft used in Europe, how often are extra-European planes landing here, what is the force on airports and airlines, etc.- Is that what you're saying? This is an immense task, of course, but if you never start, you're sure you never succeed. I agree with you on this point: it is not because it is difficult that it is impossible! In any case, I'll talk to the COP when I get there next week by train – as you know. I am not taking the train to counter-imitate the Prime Minister – who did so wisely at the opening of the COP – but because I had also travelled to Katowice in this way – it lasted 20 hours. Of course, to go to Chile, it's a little complicated. Some, moreover, remember it, since they are still at sea trying to arrive in Madrid... That being said, questions must also be asked at the level of large cities, in relation to rail travel. Mr. De Maegd also mentioned it, it is true that sometimes, quite honestly, it is not competitive, in time and in financial terms. Rail travel is large-scale public transport, such as aircraft. In every country you pass, it's electric traction. We are moving to countries where coal-fired electricity is produced. I went to Katowice. In Poland, the electricity that allows the train to move forward is produced by coal. I'd like to make it clear. As a result, there should be a European policy with the Ministers for Mobility, which allows, at least on the European continent, to join capitals with attractive packages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u45	If only Paris.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u46	For example, quite. Some colleagues will drive to Madrid by CNG. I think they'll take a little longer than I do. I'll take 12 hours and I think they'll take a little more. Yes to everything that goes in the right direction and needs to be worked out. But for now, we're really just in the embryo. We have no concrete elements in our federal part. On the other hand, I have this in mind and will continue to talk about it. As for carbon adjustment in relation to the outside world, it is at European level that this issue needs to be addressed. I'm not going to stop doing this next week. It is true that we could imagine a Europe that has carbon boundaries and, as a result, would pass a carbon tax test on any product that would be deemed too carbon emitter, or due to competition from the emission of this product in its life cycle. This can always be considered. Of course, it's always the same thing, you have to keep in mind that economic development, and the wealth it creates, is as important to develop the technology we need. These measures must be accompanied by transitions and a serious study for the competitiveness of our companies. We need our companies to have to win too, and they don't lose because it looks like in Europe it's anything, we can no longer import or export what we want. And around Europe, you would then have a tremendous economic development that would exclude us on this point. What I'm saying probably lacks nuances, we're not going to spend the afternoon on that, but we have to work on it. And always have in mind all the elements: we must of course fight against climate change but also maintain our economic circuit. Mr Ravyts, as far as CRM is concerned, this is of course an overall framework that will adapt to the degree of use we have. Having a possibility in its legislative arsenal does not necessarily mean that it is being implemented. However, if it is to be implemented, it is available. Because to establish it, I can tell you it takes time. So we're ready. It is a tool that can or will have to serve. This is a flexibility to have as fair a level of support as possible depending on electricity prices and the maturity of the technology. One must try to have the best technology for the lowest price to compete with the relatively expensive strategic reserve; it is also depressing because within this reserve there are only gas plants that close within 18 months and are not in a positive spiral of investment in new technologies, etc. In conclusion, it is a tool that must be used and that can be used as finely as possible. As far as biofuels are concerned, Mrs Daems, I see that you are very familiar with this. That would deserve a whole debate. I have sent you back to everything that has already been said, and that is very detailed. We can realize that we are already on the right track, but perhaps not enough in your eyes. I am not saying that we want to preserve the benefits of companies using first-generation biofuels at all costs. We just want to always try to make the smartest transitions to get our companies to pass all these paths, and turn to second-generation biofuels. But when the processes succeed too quickly, it is sometimes difficult to follow. That's all I wanted to say. I'm going to the boilers. I can't tell you anything about this because, as you know, it's not in my skills. I'll keep telling you. I can't do anything. This is forbidden to me by the division of powers. Boilers are a regional matter. I forgot your name, sir.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u47	Vicar.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u48	I can't forget it! Mr Vicar, we are working very hard on demand management. You should know that in our country, we have extremely efficient companies that have developed systems of aggregation of large customers, which at certain times agreed not to consume and sell this value, in a grouped way, so that it helps the network, and which would obviously benefit from it. They are often companies that own km2 of freezers or other things like that. Elia even developed a very special ad hoc platform during last winter's supply crisis around November. This platform allowed some, who were slower in their response to disconnection from their consumption, to take advantage of these accumulated demand management values. You must know that there is a limit. Demand management can be done up to a certain level. At the same time, it's very expensive. As we have seen, demand management can now have very free access to the strategic reserve as a result of the legislative changes that I made during this Parliament. Moreover, it can more and more easily access the market, in particular, as you know, via Elia. It can therefore be seen that demand management is very expensive per megawatt hour. It's a product that has some value, but I would call it niche value. Of course, we can all do energy sobriety. We did so as part of the off-the-go campaign, because we were forced to do so. This was seen as a negative message but it can be a positive message. There are energy suppliers who work with their customers to help them at times, or avoid consuming at peak times, in order to save energy and help the system pass the ridge. On the subject of hydrogen gas, I referred to the Energy Transition Fund. This is a federal policy that can be amplified. Pilot experiments are already being carried out by companies like ArcelorMittal, as you know. There is obviously a need to continue and support pilot units. But we can't support everything all the time. For processes to become industrialized, there must be public-private partnerships. We can give the impetus in research and development, of course. There are also BELSPO funds. But we have to work with the private sector, which also has an interest in it, as I said. Indeed, a successful company will pass the course of this transition much better than the one that is not. I hope I have answered all your questions and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u49	Are there any people who would like to replicate the second set of answers? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, we will continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u50	Madam President, Minister, the Federal Council of Ministers decided in September 2018 to allocate more than 550 million euros of structural funding over the period 2019-2038 to achieve the first phase of the MYRRHA project, in particular the MINERVA installation. According to the planning it would be put into operation before 2026.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u51	One year after the government decision, MYRRHA became more and more formal and a first contract was signed, designing the buildings and utilities of the first phase of the accelerator. Madam Secretary, you were present at the SCK in Mol on 5 November 2019, where during the MYRRHA World Days the world leader in the domain of accelerator-driven systems was gathered. With your presence, you wanted to stress the importance of investing in ambitious, innovative nuclear projects such as MYRRHA, in order to maintain Belgium's expertise, knowledge and know-how in the nuclear sector. Accelerator Driven Systems, of which MYRRHA is the frontrunner, are indeed opening the way to new applications and MYRRHA will, among other things, contribute to the development of new radioisotopes for innovative cancer therapies. In addition, MYRRHA develops the technology to drastically reduce the volume and radiotoxicity of high-radioactive waste through the transmutation process, which is not insignificant. A solution is also being sought to optimise geological disposal. According to some sources, there is some concern as to the financing by the reality of a government in current cases and the consequences of the use of the provisional twelfths system. Let me give you a concrete example. Indeed, a larger amount was planned for 2020 than the 2019 budget, some of which believe that there may be delays for, among other things, the planned expansion of the project team. Can you assure me that the provisional absence of a government with full powers will have no implications for the further roll-out of all the planned aspects of the MYRRHA project?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u52	Mr President, Mr President, Belgium has decided to phase out industrial electricity production by fissioning nuclear fuels. We've talked about it recently. On the other hand, it has decided to continue investing in nuclear research. It would be irresponsible not to do so. The government has done what it needs to do to ensure that MYRRHA, this major research infrastructure, contributes, among other things, to the study of the transmutation of nuclear waste in order to reduce its radiotoxicity and volume and thus facilitate its storage in deep geological layers, thus contributing to an exit from nuclear fission production that can be responsible and sustainable for future generations. Belgium is creative in developing this research project in full coherence with our policy of exiting nuclear power without the development of new nuclear power plants. Belgium is also bold in investing in sustainable technologies that can change the situation in the long-term management of spent nuclear fuel in order to avoid the transfer of undue burdens to future generations. As you know, Belgium is not the only country in this case. Countries such as France, Germany and Japan will also have to manage spent fuels. This is why the government decided on 7 September 2018 to entrust the future AISBL MYRRHA, assisted by the SCK.CEN, and in consultation with my administration, to develop an international overseas strategy for MYRRHA. The objectives of this outreach will be to strengthen international recognition for the project, to develop cooperation agreements with third countries and to find external financial support for phases 2 and 3 of MYRRHA. This international outreach will be carried out in close cooperation with the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The financing of the MYRRHA project will not be affected by the system of provisional appropriations, which will now have to be implemented until the beginning of 2020. Working with provisional appropriations does involve a great deal of red tape, which means that the amounts are being released in a small way. The system of provisional credits therefore has limitations, but a derogation can always be requested if the progress of the project is compromised. As you point out, on 7 September 2018, the Belgian Government granted its structural support to the MYRRHA project for the period 2019-2038 and committed itself there to comply with it. In the end, it is for Parliament to adopt the budget law. Like you, I read this sentence in the Flemish coalition agreement: "Flanders assures the research part of the MYRRHA project of sufficient support to accelerate applications and valorisation of the research." I do not yet know how concrete that will be. The development of MYRRHA is important for the region of Mol and can bring local added value. Other regions are of course also welcome to participate. The MYRRHA project gives companies across Belgium opportunities to contribute to the new infrastructure and then allows Belgian universities and research institutions to develop R&D programmes there. As you yourself say, a first large contract of 7.6 million euro was awarded to the Belgian company Tractebel, in consortium with the Spanish Empresarios Agrupados. They will design the buildings and utilities, including cooling, water and electricity, of the first phase of the accelerator. Other calls for tenders will follow, but it is too premature to make a statement on this. I, as well as the government as a whole, support actions to promote the project on the international stage. Personally, through concrete actions, I recently had the chance to support the MYRRHA project during the promotion event on 5 November at the SCK.CEN in the presence of several stakeholders and interested people from several countries of the world, but also, through a message recorded during a promotional event organised this week in Japan by the SCK.CEN.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u53	Madam Minister, you are right that the provisional appropriations should also be approved by Parliament. Of course, these include measures such as MYRRHA, which are positive. However, as a party, a general appreciation is given in the vote. The Federal Council of Ministers of 7 September 2018 was indeed crucial, but there was a very long run for that Council of Ministers. Mr President, you yourself witnessed this in the previous legislature and perhaps even in the previous one. Do you remember Mr Laeremans who asked numerous questions here in Parliament about the difficult development of the federal support for MYRRHA, which is ultimately there? That makes me happy. I also welcome your assurance that the commitments will be respected, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the Energy Charter Treaty will soon be renegotiated. On 15 July the Commission was mandated by the Council of the European Union to do so. The talks are scheduled to begin on 12 December in Tirana, Albania. Signed in 1994, the Treaty was originally intended to guarantee the supply of nuclear and fossil energy to Europe. It protects fossil investments, but this aspect of the text is not reflected in the content of the renegotiation mandate. The Energy Charter Treaty will therefore continue to be used by some Member States to circumvent climate objectives. Similarly, the dispute settlement mechanism will enable nations that want to disengage from nuclear or coal and/or have the ambition to control energy costs to be attacked. The government of which you are a member has agreed to the delimitation of this scope of discussion. However, the apparent need to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050 seems to require an end to the protection of investments in fossil fuels. Moreover, the Regions are not fully involved in the process. The Walloon Minister-President and the Walloon Minister for Climate and Energy recently spoke on this subject in the Walloon Parliament's committee. Minister, the Energy Charter Treaty has become a symbol: that of the tactics and manoeuvres set up by certain actors, states and/or companies, in order to avoid the effects of the Paris Agreement, the rules of international arbitration giving precedence to trade and investment agreements over environmental agreements. Moreover, this finding led Italy to withdraw from this Treaty in 2016. This situation leads me, Madam Minister, to ask you the following questions. Do you intend to involve the Regions in the renegotiation of the Treaty? If so, how? Do you not think that our country's participation should be conditional on the withdrawal of fossil fuels and nuclear energy from the protection offered by this Treaty and on that of arbitration provisions? If these conditions were not to be met, should we not follow the example of Italy and simply withdraw from this treaty which undermines the objectives of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question will be the same. Moreover, I had already put it to you at a committee meeting on 18 September. Again, I was wondering about the renegotiation of this treaty, which is a considerable obstacle to our efforts to achieve climate goals. We are talking about EUR 51.6 billion that have already been paid to private investors in 123 known cases. This is the investment protection treaty that is most often used by private investors to attack sovereign states in their public policy of environmental protection and energy transition. This was the subject of a carte blanche in Le Soir yesterday. The subject is therefore relevant. Minister, do we have a specific agenda for the negotiation process to date? If not, will you ask the European Commission? What are the chances that these negotiations will succeed, bearing in mind that, as with any treaty, unanimity is compulsory? Do you think that the negotiating directives are sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which is essential, knowing that the end of the protection of investments in fossil fuels is not part of the European Commission's negotiating mandate? This means that Belgium, for some of its policy choices to protect the environment, could be attacked in arbitration courts by investors in the field of fossil fuels. Was the creation of a climate-responsible coalition between European Member States finally discussed at the Council of Ministers? If so, have you included Belgium in this dynamic? Finally, what position will Belgium take if it appears that in a few months' time the process does not evolve in accordance with the mandate given by the Council of the European Union? Does Belgium envisage, like Italy, denouncing this treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u56	The start of the negotiations will take place on 12 December 2019 in Albania, which now holds the presidency of the Energy Charter Conference. This will take place immediately after the annual ministerial conference. The intention is that the agenda and the group of topics for the negotiations will be agreed upon. In the meantime they have been prepared since the beginning of 2018 in the working group on modernisation set up for this purpose, a subgroup on the strategy of the Energy Charter Treaty in which Belgium is actively represented by experts from the SPF Economy. The negotiations would then take place in a cycle of four to five days every three months. The specific dates have not yet been set. They will be agreed on 12 December. All Contracting Parties must accept the amendments to the modernization. If there is no consensus on a particular subject, a compromise must be found or the article in question cannot be modernised. We are in the field of international law; you know how it works. That is why consensus must always be reached. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission by the Member States of the European Union refers to the Paris Agreement, both in the section on general principles and objectives and in the section on sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. The negotiated outcome must be consistent with the mandate given to the Commission by the Council. The European Commission's objective in the area of modernisation is to address concerns about the current system of investment protection and to modernise them. At the Energy Council on 24 September, this dossier was only briefly discussed as a point of information under the heading "Miscellaneous". Luxembourg took the initiative in this matter and took the opportunity to stress once again the importance of the climate dimension in the modernisation process. Luxembourg is concerned about the level of climate ambition determined in the process of modernizing the Charter, which provides protection for foreign energy investments and therefore also for fossil investments. Belgium believes that, in the process of modernisation, it is necessary not to depart from the scope of the Energy Charter Treaty, i.e. to ensure the protection of investments by ensuring that they do not use this modernisation exercise to broaden this field. I have a totally inconsistent sentence here that I need to see again. Legally, for Belgium, the aim is to say that we prefer a negotiating situation that does not depart from the current scope of the Treaty for the purchase of energy. Modernizing the scope can only be done in energy efficiency and renewable energy matters. These themes are followed by existing international organisations with much greater and even better expertise, such as the International Energy Agency and IRENA. The Energy Charter Treaty Secretariat will need the expertise of these international bodies to move forward. This does not change the fact that Belgium is aware of the evolution of international energy policy, which rightly pays more attention to climate change and aspects. This concern is central to the work of international organizations. The Treaty must be adjusted accordingly, without losing sight of the core of the profession and the raison d'être of the organisation itself. Together with my trade colleagues, who are also actively involved in this process, I will continue to reflect in the coming months on the Belgian position we will adopt on this subject. As you can see, this is an answer that comes particularly from diplomatic circles and that I will have to be explained more precisely because, at the moment, it does not provide any advanced answers to your very specific questions. I say it myself because I'm not used to practicing the language of wood. I did not have time to reread this answer, which includes a sentence that is totally incomprehensible. Rather, I tend to want to be explained, especially when faced with diplomatic language, precisely what it covers. Even to tell you things you don't want to hear. The goal is not to please you, but to know exactly where we are going. It is clear that I would like to return to you, if I may, with a more fleshy answer in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, I was about to say that I was not at all reassured by your answer. I am a little more reassured by the uneasiness of his reading in you. I will gladly give you the benefit of the doubt. I am already looking forward to hearing your final answer on the subject. This treaty is obviously of another time. It responds to problems of another era. I sincerely believe, for having read this text and for having taken a very deep interest in what it is doing, that Belgium will have to seriously consider getting out of this treaty. Otherwise, it will function as a sword of Damocles on all the policies we would like to put in place with regard to energy, climate and energy savings in general. We have just discussed for almost three hours the ambitions which should be those of Belgium. A treatise like this will weigh like a sword of Damocles on his head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u58	Madam Minister, like my colleague Malik Ben Achour, I would have liked to leave you with the benefit of the doubt. However, I asked you exactly the same question at the committee meeting on 18 September. Your answer was the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u59	I remember it well, but it is because we are approaching 12 December that I find it insufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u60	Your answer was particularly incomplete. You promised me one that would be more complete for the next few days and that you would, for example, send me an e-mail on an informal basis. I have allowed myself to re-examine you formally in committee. As my colleague has rightly pointed out, the challenge is to eliminate the possibility of recourse to private arbitration to protect fossil fuels and nuclear energy, as provided for in this famous treaty. This is indeed a true sword of Damocles. For reading it, I must confess that the solution of denunciation – applied by Italy – is not ideal. Indeed, the Treaty contains a clause allowing it to still have legal effects thirty years after a country – in this case, ours – has denounced it. That is why I sincerely expect Belgium to have a strategic and legal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u61	Madam Minister, the ITER project is an international research and development project aimed at demonstrating the scientific and technical feasibility of nuclear fusion as a future commercially useful energy source on earth. The partners in the project are the European Union, represented by Euratom, Japan, India, China, South Korea, the Russian Federation and the US. The project started in 2010 in southern France with the construction of the largest tokamak test fusion reactor in the world. This is the final step for the construction of the industrial demonstration model DEMO, although planned for after 2040. So we are talking a little bit about science fiction, but I wanted to ask you this question anyway, because there is also financial support from the federal government. The final objective is to demonstrate an economic and energy-efficient use of nuclear fusion. I will not go into the fuel deuterium and propylene, which are infinitely available. I'm gonna leave the technicality aside for a moment. What I do know is that the SCK for Belgium coordinates scientific and industrial participation in the ITER project. There is also a Belgian ITER coordination cell, which wants to give the Belgian companies the best information about the realisation of the project. The tasks of the cell are carried out by professional federation Agoria. It is assisted by the Belgian members of the Euratom/Belgian State Fusion Association. The Royal Decree of 13 November 2009 regulated the granting of an allowance of EUR 122 000 for the operation of the coordination cell. It is unclear to me how much financial support has been available since then. Madam Minister, what is the current state of play on this international project? Can you explain the precise Belgian contribution to ITER and the financial support to the federal government? Can nuclear fusion play a long-term role in the current energy transition by 2050?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u62	Mr Ravyts, I still have a very long answer, but you are asking very detailed questions on extremely difficult subjects. It's not a reproach, on the contrary. Before I answer the questions, let me remind you of the context that led to the decision of the European Union, supported by Belgium, to invest in fusion nuclear energy as a potential source of virtually inexhaustible and environmentally friendly sustainable energy to produce low-carbon electricity. The European Union has committed itself, in the wake of the Paris Agreement of 2015, to play a leading role in the decarbonisation of the economy and the fight against global warming. There is a consensus among experts that fossil fuels without CO2 capture and sequestration systems will have to disappear from our energy mix. These fossil fuels will need to be replaced by carbon-free energy sources that will enable sustainable economic growth by meeting our ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Fusion could be an ideal complement to energy from renewable sources. The nuclear fusion reaction does not produce CO2 or long-lived radioactive waste like our current nuclear power plants. In addition, the fuel needed to operate these plants is widely available everywhere on earth and in almost unlimited quantities. We are talking about reserves of several million years to ensure the equivalent of the planet's current annual energy consumption. It is in this context that we must understand the major investments made by the European Union and our partners to build the prototype ITER infrastructure, building on the scientific developments in nuclear fusion over the last five decades. ITER will not produce electrical energy. That is not why this infrastructure is being built. ITER is an international project to build and operate an experimental facility to demonstrate through research and development, the scientific and technical feasibility of fusion energy control. The ITER project could be followed by a demonstration reactor for the production of electricity, the name of which is already called DEMO. This would take place as a prelude to commercial exploitation of fusion energy at the earliest from 2050. So it's a long way. This means, according to international agreements, that we must already have a decarbonised society in 2050 and that, at best, this possibility through nuclear fusion would only take place in 2050. The realization of a future fusion power plant requires a scientific and financial commitment on a scale beyond reach for a single country. This is why the merger activities are closely integrated at European level. ITER is a unique global cooperation project signed in 2006 between the European Union and six other members of the ITER consortium (China, South Korea, United States, India, Japan and Russia). Europe contributes to 45% of the construction costs which are 80% financed from the European budget and 20% from France, which is the ITER host country. The other ITER members each have a share of about 9%. This allocation of costs will be different during the operating phase. At that time, Europe will account for 34% and the rest for 6% each. The ITER Agreement provides that each Party shall have its own domestic agency responsible for managing its contribution, in particular the provision to ITER in the form of in-kind contributions of the various components necessary for the construction of ITER. The European Union's contribution to the construction of ITER is managed by the Joint Undertaking for ITER and the Development of Fusion Energy, known as Fusion for Energy and based in Barcelona since 2007. The European Commission believes that the completion of the first phase of ITER's construction should lead to the production of the first plasma in December 2025. The full-power operation of ITER with deuterium-tritium fuel is expected to begin in 2035. In 2010, the European Union, while confirming its support for the ITER project, decided to limit the European contribution to €6.6 billion in value 2008 for the period 2007-2020. This budget was subsequently revised to reflect the context, major design changes and many manufacturing challenges inherent in the prototype character. The management governance of this international project has also been strengthened. Since 2015, the European Union and other ITER members have continuously improved the management of the project and contain all the drifts in time and costs in order to have significant improvements in the progress of these activities. The European Commission has estimated the total contribution of Euratom to the construction of ITER for the period 2021 to the end of 2035 to EUR 7.1 billion in value 2008. There were initially 6.6 billion in value 2008 and now, since 2015, 7.1 billion in value 2008. These amounts were used to establish the European Commission's proposal for the next multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027. The costs of ITER are very high, but they span 30 years. They must be seen in the context of Europe's energy transformation. The European Commission already estimated in 2015 in its proposal for a strategic framework for a resilient energy union, i.e. the Energy Union package, that this transformation should require around EUR 200 billion per year – it is huge – over the next decade. So 200 billion euros a year for ten years. In the Belgian context, I would like to stress that this sustainable energy source is perfectly compatible with our legislation. I believe I have already said this, but I repeat, what is prohibited in our legislative framework is the fission of fuel. Merging is therefore permitted and we can consider it without changing the law. Belgium has been contributing to nuclear fusion research since 1969. The Royal Military School (RME), the Free University of Brussels (ULB) and the SCK-CEN, joined in 2014 by the University of Ghent, KULeuven and UCLouvain, carry out research programmes oriented towards ITER. The ERM and SCK-CEN are also Belgian members of the Trilateral Eurégio Cluster (TEC) which coordinates research on nuclear fusion between Belgium, the Netherlands and North Rhine-Wesphalia. For example, the ERM is developing a plasma heating system for the German research infrastructure Wendelstein 7-X, which has been operating since 2015 in northern Germany in Greisfwald. This German fusion reactor prototype known as Stellarator will not produce electricity but will allow the scientific community to carry out additional tests at ITER to find the best design for a future nuclear fusion. According to International Energy Agency statistics, spending on nuclear fusion research and development in recent years amounts to around €5.8 million per year, of which 1.5 million corresponds to the direct support of the federal budget. In Belgium, we have decided to contribute voluntarily to the extended approach in fusion energy research launched by the European Commission with Japan in order to carry out three research projects to be carried out in parallel during the construction phase of ITER. Belgian companies such as IBA, ULB, SCK-CEN, Tractebel Engineering and the Ateliers de la Meuse participated for a total of 11 million euros in value 2009. In order to further stimulate industrial participation in ITER, the Government also decided in 2009 to set up ITER Belgium, a contact unit managed by Agoria to assist industrialists interested in the supply of components to ITER. In conclusion, investing in fusion nuclear energy is a strategic decision over the long term, with numerous scientific and industrial benefits, which aims to develop, in the long term, a virtually inexhaustible and environmentally friendly energy source, to produce low-carbon electricity, in addition to renewable energies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u63	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your detailed and very rich reply. I do not know to what extent nuclear fusion has been dealt with in this committee or in the Committee on Industry in the past five or six years. Mr Wollants will be better able to judge that. It's a very long-term project. I take note of the amount of EUR 1.5 million from Belgium. I do not think that we will still be here, neither you nor I, Madam Secretary, in the envisaged carbon-free society of 2050. Nuclear fusion may play an important role in this. I have already said today that I am not married to some technology, but I can support all technologies that lead to such a society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u64	Madam Minister, this question concerns the European infringement procedure. With two sentences in the coalition agreement, the Michael I government took five years ago to do what no government had succeeded in doing, in particular deciding what should happen to the high- and medium-level waste collected and to the future, category B and C, in Belgium. Since 2011, a specific European directive has been calling for a plan for "responsible and safe waste management" to be drawn up by each Member State concerned. I quote the coalition agreement: "The government will issue national policies for the management of Category B and C nuclear waste. The municipalities chosen after a wide participatory process will be compensated by the category A surface storage. Madam Secretary, there was a lot of delay after that. After years of research, NIRAS informed the Belgian government in autumn 2016 that "geological disposal in little paved clay" was the best choice in her view to permanently store high-level radioactive waste from nuclear power plants. Afterwards, a whole discussion started. Should it be 200 meters or 400 meters? Which layers exactly are eligible? The European Commission notes that there is no final decision on the geological final disposal and now urges Belgium to manage nuclear waste in accordance with European rules. The committee delivered an opinion on this matter to the Belgian authorities. This is the second stage in a formal infringement procedure. If Belgium does not take action in the next two months, the European Commission may refer the case to the European Court of Justice. The plans for responsible and safe management should have been submitted to the European Commission in the summer of 2015. Mevrouw de minister ik verwijs naar uw uitgebreid antwoord van vorige week over het jaarverslag van de Commissionsie voor nucleaire voorzieningen waar u letterlijk hebt gezegd: "to answer a sub-question of Mr. Ben Achour, currently ONDRAF, is preparing the national policy decision, which is now limited – since it is a policy in phases – to the question of whether or not the principle of geological storage is maintained." So it's still an ongoing process. Europe is becoming impatient and perhaps also a number of colleagues in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 27 November the Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium informing it that it was not complying with the directive on the establishment of a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste of 2011. If Belgium does not take the measures to ensure that a radioactive waste management programme is in place by 27 January, the Commission could refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union and condemn Belgium for its failure to comply with European law. I therefore ask you three questions. What are the Commission's specific shortcomings with regard to Belgium? What is Belgium's position on these? Does Belgium recognise that it does not respect European law? Does the European Commission consider that the current radioactive waste management programme poses a risk to the population, workers or the environment? What measures will be taken, urgently, in the very short term, since it is before 27 January, to respect European law and prevent this action before the Court of Justice of the European Union? Would a simple change in the content of the radioactive waste management programme be sufficient? Or is the Commission's view that more is needed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u66	You must know that the letter from the European Commission to which you refer came to me last night. It's a few pages, which I don't think I'm going to say that about the corner of a desk. They need to be analyzed. In addition, this relates to the joint competences between the economy and energy. There must therefore be a dialogue between two administrative and political poles. We must give our instructions to the administration to ensure, after interaction with ONDRAF, a response to the European Commission as soon as possible. It is a letter of 27 November that passed through the Permanent Representation of Belgium to Europe and arrived at my office last night. I will, of course, talk about it again, in terms of content and analysis, in the next step. What I can now communicate to you and which I had amply recalled in some answers to questions you had asked is that Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel (discussed here) was transposed in Belgium by the Act of 3 June 2014 amending the ONDRAF Act and establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel. The Act contains three instruments: the national programme, national policies and the national report. As regards the national programme, the draft first programme presenting a situation as is (existing) was adopted at the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016, communicated to Europe and published in the Belgian Monitor. It includes a strategic scoreboard reflecting the progress of different national policies. Since 2016, with my colleague in the Economy, co-tutelle on ONDRAF, the waste case B and C has progressed significantly. In February 2018, ONDRAF/NIRAS sent the Ministers of Economy and Energy a new proposal for a national policy on the long-term management of high-level waste. This new proposal is that of the principle of geological storage, as Mr Ravyts pointed out, without any indication, at this stage, of the rock which will host this storage. In addition to decision-making, a step-by-step process is planned. This new proposal was the result of intense consultation between ONDRAF, AFCN and my administration. It also takes into account the various opinions expressed by AFCN which prompted ONDRAF to act in one direction, which is now the case. For a long time, ONDRAF did not necessarily follow AFCN's recommendations. Without calling into question the quality of the clays in the soil intended to accommodate this waste, these opinions indicated that while it was possible to make a decision at this stage on the principle of burial in the land, it was not yet possible to decide on the high rock. That's what AFCN was asking for when ONDRAF wanted to go faster. It's paradoxical, but it's like that. In November 2018, my colleague from the Economy and I asked ONDRAF to submit this proposal for a national policy to the provisions laid down in the 2006 law and to carry out, therefore, according to the provisions laid down in the law, the strategic environmental impact assessment and a public consultation, which I had also already told you. The ONDRAF must therefore carry out a public consultation on the first stage of the reasoning: the principle of geological burial. Belgium submitted its second national report to the European Commission at the end of August 2018, which was provided for in the law I have just mentioned. Since then, an interaction between Europe and Belgium has taken place, which has seen Europe's decision to enter into a more stringent procedure scheme that we are going to analyse, because I remain convinced that we can continue to explain to them what is the principle of the stages of progress in our country, which are linked to the recommendations made by AFCN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u67	Madam Minister, I hope that you will indeed be able to convince Europe of the federal government's schedule, in which indeed there was not always maximum coordination between NIRAS and the FANC. The story continuouss. We will continue to follow this up in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u68	Minister, I hear you received this formal notice last night. Would it be possible to share the content so that Parliament really understands the complaints made to us by the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u69	I never stand in the way. I'll ask my administration to give me a tip. I want to analyse it first and then it will be communicated to you. It is, anyway, a document that will be processed within the government as I am co-competent with Ms. Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, in March 2019, the King Baudouin Foundation stated: "One in five households live in a situation of energy insecurity." The Platform to combat energy insecurity as well as the various CPAS are also sounding the alarm. This situation is at first glance paradoxical, when it is known that an instrument to help people in situations of energy insecurity exists in Belgium: the Gas and Electricity Fund. How can we explain this nonsense? The Fund was initially to be regularly indexed. However, it has not been since 2012. Since then, the amount has remained blocked at EUR 53 million. The loss of profits is therefore enormous. The anti-poverty associations as well as the CPAS are calling for a halt to the indexation freeze in order to allow for a financial recovery. Minister, are you aware of the exact figures of the number of Belgian households in difficulty from an energy point of view? Do you intend to end the freeze on the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund? The Platform for Combating Energy Insecureness speaks of a shortage of 30 million per year. Are you finally considering a refinancing of this Fund? According to the King Baudouin Foundation, "the non-renewal of the royal decree made at the end of the year is the responsibility of a government in day-to-day affairs". Is that so? Do you intend to take the necessary action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u71	Mr President, Madam Member, on the website of the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission (CREG) you can read, concerning the Social Energy Fund, that "on the basis of the information provided by the SPP Social Integration, the CREG redistributes the amount indexed annually to the CPAS". These amounts, redistributed by the CREG at the request of the SPP Social Integration, come directly from the federal contribution paid by each consumer in that country. [[By Royal Decree of 14 November 2012 amending the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 laying down the terms of the federal contribution for the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs related to the regulation and control of the electricity market and the Royal Decree of 24 March 2003 laying down the terms of the federal contribution for the financing of certain public service obligations and the costs related to the regulation and control of the natural gas market, the Electricity and Gas Fund intended for the partial financing of the implementation of the measures provided for by the Act of 4 September 2002 to entrust public social assistance centres with the task of providing guidance and financial social assistance in the context of the provision of energy to the most deprived persons, were frozen for the years 2012, 2013, 2014, at the level of 1 January 2012 – it was therefore a decision of the previous government.]] We have pursued this policy – we must add it as well – but it already goes back to the government of Elio Di Rupo. As a result, the government followed the same policy from 2015 to 2019 because the October 2014 government agreement planned to reduce the federal contribution. Practically, the amount calculated by the Social Integration PPS and intended for each CPAS consists of part for the staff costs of the CPAS in charge of energy issues and part for the direct aid for disadvantaged people. The freezing of the total amount allocated to each CPAS causes the share of direct aid to decline each year as staff costs continue to rise due to wage indexation. The King Baudouin Foundation estimates that the needs in the sector are 30 million. She believes thawing is a solution. Let us see in concrete terms what this gives. Indeed, my services had requested in August 2018 to examine the consequences of a thawing of amounts for CPAS for the current year 2019. With regard to possible thawing, I can communicate the following. Firstly, the amount providing the OSP funds (public service obligation) since 2012 (frozen) amounts respectively to €30,750,170 for electricity and €22,140,122 for natural gas; whereas on the basis of the current estimate by the Bureau of the Plan of the Price Index of November 2018, the supply of the OSP funds 2019 (indexed and non-frozen) could amount to €34,115,412 and natural gas to €24,563,096. It can be seen that the thawing of the amounts intended for CPAS would bring 3,365,242 euros in electricity and 2,422,974 euros in gas, i.e. a total of 5,788,216 euros. We are still far away – that's still what you'll tell me – from the 30 million demanded by the King Baudouin Foundation. Mrs. Thémont, I will provide you with a copy of my written answer including the detailed calculations. For 2018, and all other things being equal, the calculation of the unit values of the public service obligation surcharge, if 2018 amounts had been thawed, gives in surcharge 0.5332 euro per MWh, instead of 0.4929, and in natural gas contributions, 0.5837 euro per MWh instead of 0.5690 euro per MWh. For a household, the weight is barely perceptible. In concrete terms, on a household's bill, it would be an increase of a few cents per MWh consumed. This therefore represents a low impact for residential consumers. The calculation of the next federal contribution will have to be determined by CREG at the end of the year. I remind you that it is not us but the CREG that fixes the contribution every year. In the absence of a royal decree, the CREG will decide to feed the Kyoto fund and index the gas and electricity funds. Increasing the bills of other consumers at the risk of having them also encounter difficulties in paying their bills is not a government decision in day-to-day business. There is therefore a need for broader reflection and an evaluation of the funds to be led by the majority to be set up on the basis of last May's elections, the next federal government. You asked me how many households are in trouble in our country. According to figures from the King Baudouin Foundation, 120,000 households benefit from the aid system commonly known as the CPAS Fund. According to the SPF Economy, in 2015, 750,000 households suffered from energy insecurity. Who are we talking about? We are talking about people who are forced to make choices between goods of necessity, i.e. to give up – and it's serious! – to take care of yourself or to eat so that you can light up or warm up. Thus, an energy-impaired household is a household that cannot provide for itself with energy or at the cost of sacrifices and renunciation of other commonly consumed goods. This is therefore a serious issue – the precariousness and assistance to the most deprived – that should be addressed by a full-fledged government and that cannot be resolved by a government in its day-to-day affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u72	Madam Secretary, despite your speed of speech, your answers are a little too long. I'll just give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. Whether it is a current or full-year government, the Social Gas and Electricity Fund has been evaluated as a useful and relevant instrument, which has proved its worth. That is why neglecting its financing will severely affect the population who are struggling to pay their energy bills. As you said, this fund, essential to the fight against energy insecurity, was frozen in 2012. It must be noted that, at present, CPAS are no longer able to take on the social energy policy they have been developing for many years. A year ago, they announced that they had already lost more than 14 million euros because of this freeze. You admitted: the situation worsens day by day. Although the government is now in business, it still has almost five years to put an end to this freeze in order to index the Fund. Moreover, indicators of precariousness are not taken into account in the Fund's indexation, since the budget does not keep up with developments in precariousness. However, households are increasingly in difficulty. At the end of your speech, you recalled that this issue had to be taken seriously, as from the 15th of each month people have to choose between treating themselves, feeding themselves, housing themselves and paying their gas and electricity bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u74	Mr President, Minister, several environmental associations question the government's concessions in the North Sea to companies for the extraction of sand and gravel from the continental shelf bed. They also contest to the Council of State the ministerial decree of 30 July 2019 which prolongs the concessions in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u75	Mr Ben Achour, I am interrupting you because you have tabled this question recently and the administration has fallen behind. I'm not going to send you back to Philippe De Backer without giving you an answer. I therefore propose that you ask the question since you have started and I will send you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u76	The main reason for these organizations to lead this fight is the poor state of nature in the North Sea. The latest assessment report of the Marine Environment Strategy Framework Directive (MSDS) is a worrying one. The relevant indicators of eutrophication – the imbalance in the environment caused by local accumulation of certain nutrients such as nitrogen (N) and phosphorus (P) in the winter period – show that around 40% of Belgian territorial waters are in poor condition. In the case of the seabed, the indicators give average scores to poor. They suffer, as well as the life they harbour, mainly from fishing. Waste is another major problem. More than 20,000 tonnes of waste are disposed of annually in the North Sea, of which an estimated 75% is plastic. More generally, we know, the North Sea is warming and invasive species have appeared. The one sometimes called our eleventh province is home to 2,100 species of plants and animals. It forms a continuous ecosystem starting in the sea but also encompassing the beach, dunes and polders. Minister, do you believe, as the various environmental associations believe, that the same laws and rules must apply to all activities carried out in the Belgian part of the North Sea and that no more activities should be allowed in protected natural areas? How do you view the content of the latest MSCHD evaluation report? The Framework Directive requires Member States to develop a maritime strategy to achieve what is called "good environmental status" by 2020. What is the status of this work within a few months of expiry?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u77	Mr President, as I said earlier, there is a delay in my administration's preparation of the answers, which we are going to fill. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that what our colleague is talking about really falls within the competence of Mr. Backer. I'm responsible for energy in the North Sea, but Mr. De Backer is responsible for the environment and the marine environment and therefore for the North Sea. Beyond the answer that will be prepared by the administration and that I will send you, it will be useful to question it directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic062x.u78	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55001546 by Mrs Reuter Mr Van Quickenborne's 55001794C will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's point of order was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Kir and Question No 5, by Mr Kir: Mr Warmoes (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Warmoes on his excellent report.
