ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the disappearance of the labour inspectorate in Nivelles. As part of the reorganisation of the Employment FPS, a labour inspectorate is to be maintained in each province except in the provinces of Walloon Brabant and Flemish Brabant. This decision, in addition to the reduction in the number of well-being inspectors at work for several years (from 164 to 129 inspectors in 15 years), again penalizes the province of Walloon Brabant. As a result of this reorganization, citizens will have to travel to Namur to get an answer to their question or request. Minister, what reasons did they cause you to remove the Nivelles Labour Inspection Office? Will staff currently working in Nivelles be reassigned to another office? If not, what is planned for staff? Finally, can you give me the timing of the removal of Nivelles' office?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u2	Mr President, Mr Corthouts, a restructuring plan was presented by the Social Law Control DG (CLS) and was adopted on principle by the Management Committee of the Employment, Labour and Social Concertation SPF (ETCS) in December 2018. It provides for the consolidation of existing offices into eight regional offices. In addition, in each region, an antenna will be kept. This is a smaller establishment of a few offices where, in particular, the public wishing to address the CLS can be received. What is very important to you, I think, is that the plan provides for the maintenance of an antenna in Nivelles. This means that all the people who live in Walloon Brabant keep the opportunity to meet the inspection of social laws in Nivelles. This must now be implemented. We will start with two pilot regions, one in Flanders and one in Wallonia, so that we can learn from such a grouping. This grouping will be implemented in the coming years. Each private or public organization is active in an environment that is constantly evolving. An agile organization responds to these developments and adapts, where appropriate, its way of functioning. This is in any case the will of the ETCS FPS and the CLS. Let me share with you some developments in recent years. Thus, we live in a digital society in which citizens increasingly use smartphones and e-mails to ask for information, to complain and to get in touch with the authority. There is also the systematic use of electronic minutes by inspection services, the digitization of data that is expanding, the development of a fully digital process from the inspection of justice to administrative fines, the intentional and identified collaboration, and the coordination of inspection services in the field. I could give you more examples, but the message is clear. It is therefore quite normal for an organization to examine itself periodically and to remain attentive to its way of functioning, with a view to continuous improvement. This is what FPS ETCS and CLS are doing at present. This demonstrates good management, leadership and a sense of responsibility. Each change is accompanied by resistance to overcome and the creation of a solid foundation. Correct and stable information at the right time and dialogue between the Management Committee, employees and their representatives are essential to achieving this objective. This dialogue is currently under way. Finally, I can give you very important information for all the citizens who live in Walloon Brabant. Indeed, an antenna will be maintained in Nivelles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u3	Mr President, Minister, you reassure me that an antenna will be maintained in Walloon Brabant and more particularly in Nivelles. The whole thing is to know what the powers of this antenna will be. Having been an entrepreneur for more than twenty years, I can tell you that when appeals are to be brought, it is better to have a real knowledge of the field. In addition, I asked you about the staff currently assigned to Nivelles. It seems to me that you haven't answered about his continued presence in the Walloon Brabant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u4	I understand that the employees who are now in place in Nivelles remain there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u5	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u6	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Daerden's 27375 and 27378 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u7	Minister, in July 2018, the Constitutional Court overturned the provision of the Borsus Act on community service for CPAS beneficiaries, defending the fact that it was a work to be paid. Volunteering implies an activity carried out without obligation, which is not the case for the Community service, since in the event of failure to carry out the tasks, the PIIS (individualised social integration project) provides for sanctions against the beneficiaries. Since the Community service is considered to be a work and the Regions are competent to place the beneficiaries of the right to social integration into employment, the Constitutional Court held that the Federal Government had exceeded its powers in this matter. The government therefore had to abandon one of the objectives of its majority agreement. This was apparently important, given that the N-VA has again tried to introduce this community service via a loophole, by amending the Act on communal administrative sanctions. There, it was the Council of State that was very clear, in its opinion of 18 September 2018. I quote: "As it is not compatible with ILO Convention No. 29 on forced labour, the proposal under consideration must therefore be abandoned." Last summer, as part of the deal, you introduced a new version: Community service for the long-term unemployed. If this new system were activated by the Regions, it would allow the regional employment services to make the unemployed work without receiving any wages, or else they would be punished and lose all or part of the unemployment benefits. However, regional employment ministers have not been very enthusiastic about such a proposal. Moreover, by introducing such a measure, the government does not seem to honour its own commitments to the International Labour Organization. Minister, what is the status of this issue today? Does the government still want to move forward on this issue of community service for the long-term unemployed? What is your reaction to the White Paper co-signed by the representatives of the three national trade unions and by various actors in the community? This white card was entitled: "A community service for the long-term unemployed? No more acceptable than for integration income recipients." It was published in Le Soir and its authors announced that the royal decree in question would be brought to justice. Can you imagine a valid reason why the Council of State will not issue the same negative opinion on Community service for the long-term unemployed as for the beneficiaries of the CPAS? If the Government ignores the negative opinion of the Council of State, how should such a government decision be understood in relation to the ILO Convention on Forced Labour of the Unemployed? Finally, Belgium and the various employment ministers have always defended fundamental labour standards at international level. Minister, with this government, will you continue to defend the ILO's labour standards or will you put them in the trash?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u8	Dear colleague, the implementation of the passage of the Government Agreement on Community service for the unemployed was resumed in the employment deal of the summer of 2018. In the fall of 2018, a draft royal decree establishing this community service and signed by me was submitted to the Management Committee of the ONEM for opinion. As noted in Constitutional Court decision 86/2018 of 5 July 2018, the Regions are competent to regulate the introduction of community service. The amendments to the 'unemployment' order which I had prepared were therefore not intended to introduce Community service but only to adapt the provisions on unemployment, in the light of a possible introduction of Community service by a Region. However, a finding by my fellow Ministers of Regional Employment has revealed that both Flanders and Wallonia do not want to continue with the establishment of a Community service of two half days a week and a journey to employment. The Regions prefer to act, respectively, through neighbourhood jobs. As a result, we decided to waive any further consideration of the draft Royal Order. I hope I've made it clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u9	Minister, thank you. What is clear is that you are giving up this project which was not a good project because I think it was in contravention of international conventions and our Constitution. Any work under any conditions has never brought anyone out of poverty, nor is it forced to work while remaining unemployed. If there are too many unemployed in Belgium, it is not their responsibility. It is not this mode of activation that will solve the problem. If these people are unemployed, it is due to the lack of job offers. I think that this was simply in line with this activation logic, which places enormous pressure on all job seekers, young or old and of varying length of time, with the sole aim of lowering wages. This is well known, the more people are inclined to accept any working conditions, the more pressure is put on the level of wages. This was a purely employers' logic and I am glad that you abandoned it, regardless of the reasons for this abandonment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u10	Mr President, we are going back to one aspect of the "jobs deal". In this context, we have understood that there is, or may still be, a consensus to remove the age-related scales. Wages should now be based on competence and productivity and not on age and seniority. The underlying vision of such a measure is clearly that older people would be too expensive to engage. Yet this idea does not seem to correspond to reality. First of all, it must be noted that the current system, based on seniority, does not lead to unlimited wage increases. In practice, there is a ceiling around 45 years, above which there are no longer seniority increments. On the other hand, what we must also note is that from the age of 45, the older you are, the more difficult it is to find work. Other factors therefore seem to play. Secondly, it must be noted that the situation in Belgium is not so different from other European countries. According to the Higher Employment Council, wages increase with seniority in all countries. The wage pressure in Belgium between the beginning and the end of a career is certainly not excessive from a European perspective. Finally, it must be noted that seniority is particularly important for highly skilled workers and much less so for workers and persons with a low level of qualification. Yet it is the latter who leave the labour market earlier. In short, for people over the age of 50, seniority does not seem to be a real obstacle to finding or retaining a job. You admitted it yourself in an interview with Professor Xavier Baeten in Vacature. What data do you use to argue that removing seniority-related scales would increase the chances of older workers in the labour market? Have the social partners been consulted to discuss this proposal? How do you see, in practice, this wage fixing based on individual competence and productivity? How will you measure these two criteria? There are not only quantitative criteria, but also qualitative criteria, such as teamwork, which have a positive impact on productivity. How could such criteria be taken into account? How will competition in the workplace between workers themselves be prevented, which would have a negative impact on the working environment and, indirectly, on productivity? How can we prevent this measure from becoming a new measure of wage moderation? Today, we are living on a day of general strike against this moderation, which means that workers will earn less on their entire career.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u11	Minister, I have a question on the same subject, with a slightly different meaning, of course, which will not surprise you. I refer to the coalition agreement, with the commitment to introduce a new career model in which 'workers receive a wage more consistent with their competences and productivity rather than a mere linear increase in relation to age and seniority'. Unfortunately, we have to note that this commitment has not been translated into policy so far. According to Professor Stijn Baert of Ghent University, a fifty-year-old in Flanders receives about 39 % less positive responses to applications than a forty-four-year-old with the same qualifications. Wage costs are one of the many arguments put forward by employers. The Summer Agreement contained a measure on the linking of pay and seniority. It was about three partial measures. Firstly, as a minister with the social partners, you would set an agenda for the reform of seniority. Secondly, the Employment Office will pay particular attention to wage-earners. Thirdly, the Central Council for Business will carry out a new study on this issue. Minister, what is the state of play? Have you already consulted with the social partners and has an agenda emerged from this? What work has the Employment Office already done?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have properly implemented the three elements mentioned. So I have taken the necessary initiatives. However, I would like to make my answer a little more general. Before the beginning of the sectoral negotiations, I asked the social conciliators to put on the agenda the adjustment of the seniority scales, particularly in those sectors where the wage gap on the basis of seniority is the largest. I have reiterated this request in the context of the implementation of the summer agreement. In this respect, it is not only employment that plays a central role, but also concerns about discrimination against experienced workers, for example. This call for social consultation is not so much about replacing seniority pay by performance-oriented pay. This concerns a broader and more socio-economical issue of how the rising labour costs of experienced workers are proportional to productivity through seniority pay. This is one element in a broader debate on the thresholds for the employment or reemployment of experienced workers. I would like to reiterate the opinion of the 2014 High Employment Council on the relationship between pay and seniority and its effects. This was very nuanced, both in terms of the impact on employment opportunities and in terms of the relationship with productivity. The opinion indicated that wage increases are not the main cause of the low labour market participation of older workers. Early retirement opportunities, lack of continuing vocational training, low job mobility, etc. are more important factors according to the High Employment Council. The advice also gave a clear insight into the difference between workers, where seniority pay hardly plays, and servants. A study carried out by the 2013 Employment and Social Economy Support Point comes to similar findings, in particular that the wage requirements of older workers account for only 9% of the lower chance of getting back to work. Based on a renewed analysis of my administration, it appears that the seniority-related tension in the sectoral minimum wage scales within the same job category for workers is on average 7% and for servants is on average 33% in 2018. I would also draw your attention to the fact that forms of performance-oriented pay are not necessarily individual. For example, since 2008, the social partners have developed a collective bonus system through collective agreement 90 of the National Labour Council, which has been a growing success, including through the application of a fiscal favor regime. I should also like to point out that, even today, Belgium is already working with both seniority pay and performance-oriented remuneration. My question to the social mediators is therefore not an imperative implementation of a system of remuneration imposed by the government. On the contrary, it is an invitation to thorough preparation with all the social partners and I am waiting for their input in order to see how the implementation of non-ancientity-related conditions can proceed. This exercise will certainly help with the study we requested from the Central Council for Business on 30 July 2018. This question to the Central Council for Business did indeed come within the framework of the job deal. The aim is to carry out a study to analyse both the impact of seniority on labour costs and their impact on the competitiveness of our economy. This analysis will be carried out at intersectoral level and at the level of the largest sectors of our economy. It is particularly important that this analysis is shared by the representatives of the employees and of the companies, so that it can serve as a basis for future discussions on the evolution of the employee's remuneration system. Both parties have an interest in this in relation to the employment of experienced workers, in a context of a tight labour market. On 1 February 2019, the Central Board for Business informed me by letter about the progress of the dossier. The following points will be discussed in the context of this study: the rationality of the seniority pay system from an economic point of view and the theory of human capital, the reasons why other pay systems have been developed, the reason why some people question the remuneration of seniority, the modalities of the current seniority pay system in Belgium and abroad, a collection of descriptive statistics on this, an explanation of the adjustments to the seniority pay system in other countries and how they have implemented these adjustments. In its letter, the Central Board for Business committed itself to conclude this investigation in June 2019 and will also report on it. The conclusion is that we have implemented what was agreed in the Summer Agreement. All studies and questions are ongoing. With the results of this debate, we will be able to make up our minds in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u13	Minister, you said it was necessary for employment. Now, you're already admitting that this impact is questionable and varies according to the categories of workers. Your new argument is that it is necessary to combat discrimination. I find this argument rather incredible, because I think that discrimination would appear in a system more based on individual competence and productivity. There is scientific evidence that collective wage bargaining leads to a reduction in inequality. The individualisation of the wage issue would lead to more discrimination. This raises the problem of how to control productivity. Of course, you can offer systems such as the one set up by Amazon. This company has developed a patent on the following system: a bracelet to monitor employees at work. The device checks the position of the hands and it is then seen whether the worker is active or not. I don't know if that's the kind of society you imagine. In any case, this logic is to increase the pressure of work. I think, again, as in the previous point, that you want to introduce an employer logic into the relations between workers and employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A lot of study work is being done. You said that it will be ready by July 2019. So you're actually saying it'll be up to a next government to make decisions. All right, but then it is a pity that we lost five years, because the 2014 government agreement explicitly stated our commitment to introducing a new career model. Apparently, we didn't do that. That's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the end of the year was particularly exciting at Aviapartner. At the end of October 2018, the workers of this company conducted a strike of several days. They denounced dangerous work situations, inhuman pressure, lack of staff, poor wages, the hyperflexibility required of them, etc. One worker explained: "We can't even take our lunch break; no meal, as they say at home. This means that we have to work eight hours of one milking, without the slightest break to eat." It should be noted that a baggage dealer carries four to five tons of baggage each day. To load them, he must kneel in the aircraft hold. In addition to physically heavy work, there is enormous flexibility: morning, afternoon and night breaks, weekend work and public holidays. I quote again: "But it is worth no respect, we are poorly paid, we are constantly working with too few staff, and the equipment is of very poor quality." Trade union delegate Peter Vits clearly saw a worsening of working conditions: "A decade ago, seven people were used to load a cargo plane. Today, only four!" After a six-day strike, Aviapartner workers and their unions won their fight. The agreement reached will ensure more stable jobs, better equipment and better job security. They pulled the alarm bell and obtained an important agreement as well as more respect. The policy could have intervened in the case, but, alas, it only shined with its absence. However, there are structural solutions. Minister, how do you stand up to the proposal to introduce an "airport status", like the port status for dockers, set out in the Major Act? All the staff at the airport would get it with, for all, the same conditions of pay and work. In my view, only such an approach ensures that the competitive struggle is not on the back of the workers. Have you ever analysed this proposal? Are you considering taking steps in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u16	Mr.President, Mr.Van Hees, the strike at Aviapartner began on the evening of October 25, 2018. The following day, a social conciliator was asked. It facilitated negotiations in which it participated without interruption until 30 October, when an agreement was reached. Throughout this period, the social conciliator was in contact with my Employment strategic unit. The creation of a single joint committee for all airport activities, accompanied by a territorial description of the airport and a recognised status for airport workers, is indeed an advanced track for quite a while by some trade unions, like the Joint Sub-Committee for the Port of Antwerp (CP 301.01). However, the conciliator would like to underline the diversity of employment and of the enterprises active at Brussels airport. These are more than 250 companies, and not all of the multiple jobs found there can be qualified in the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u17	Mr Minister, I find that you are easily sweeping away this proposal, which has been in existence for some time now and which is being formulated by trade union organisations. At the port of Antwerp, there are also many different businesses and trades. I do not see why what is possible for the port of Antwerp would not be possible for airports. The proposed system would allow all persons working at the airport to enjoy the same status and to enjoy the same conditions of remuneration and work. This is an essential and effective system for reducing the competitive struggle that is now taking place in the sector, as can be seen at the port of Antwerp. The fact that some patrons of the port of Antwerp want to attack the Major Law is not due to chance. I find it very regrettable to reject this proposal with a back of my hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u18	Minister, my question concerns the dismissal of a union representative at CooperVision in Herstal. Following the termination on August 31, 2018, the FGTB conducted a series of actions on September 4, 2018. This is the dismissal of a protected employee, a union delegate, for whom the union delegation requests reinstatement. There has already been a meeting between the FGTB and management on September 6, but management maintains its decision, which the FGTB cannot accept. The FGTB also regrets the fact that the regional secretary was not involved or, at the very least, informed in the mediation procedure, within the framework of the 1991 Act establishing a special dismissal regime for staff delegates. Minister, what is the situation today? Have you ever contacted CooperVision's management and asked for an explanation? Many similar cases have occurred in recent times, with dismissals of trade union representatives (Croix-Rouge, Mistral, Vesuvius, Aide Familiale, Vandemoortele, etc.).). This is an alarming development. Minister, will you take steps to better protect the status of union representatives from arbitrary dismissal? What do you think of the idea of introducing a legal system allowing the compulsory reintegration of trade union representatives after an unfair dismissal, as is the case in Germany, the Netherlands and France? It is precisely with these three countries that wage comparisons are made. It would also be good to make comparisons on the reintegration of trade unionists. Minister, the number of union representatives dismissed is increasing significantly. Have you ever been able to collect figures on the number of dismissals of union representatives in 2018 and early 2019? Minister, my second question is also about the dismissal of a union representative at DDS-Verko. It is about a secret meeting to "get rid" of the trade unionist Martin Christiaens, until he is transferred to a " pitiful work" in the composting department, while he is a driver. This is the verdict of the Dendermonde Labour Court: there are sufficient indications that the Verko waste management intercommunal has engaged in "discrimination on the basis of trade union convictions". Mr Christiaens said: "They are looking for me because as a trade union representative, I was the spokesman for the dissatisfaction of the workers." I continue to quote: "They started attacking me and they launched a campaign of harassment and intimidation against me." The Labour Court confirmed that the trade unionist was right on the whole line. I quote the judge in her verdict: "There are sufficient indications and statements in the file to prove that Mr. Christiaens was treated less favourably than any other staff member in a similar situation." Verko unilaterally decided to transfer Mr Christiaens to the composting department, against the agreement reached with the social mediator. The aim of this operation was to prevent her from carrying out her union work. "No union work!" Could we read in the notes of the conversation of the deputy director of the intercommunal with the social mediator. The employer did not wait for the verdict: Mr.Christiaens has already been dismissed. No respect for the court, therefore, and what contempt for union work! These are serious acts. Mr Minister, do you condemn the dismissal approved by the president of the intercommunal and the mayor of Melle, who explicitly argued that it was better to dismiss Mr Christiaens? What steps are you going to take to reverse the decision to terminate her employment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u19	Mr Van Hees, as I have communicated, workers' representatives on the Board of Directors and on the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work are given specific protection against dismissal. This protection was included in the Act of 19 March 1991. Workers' representatives may not be dismissed for serious reasons previously adopted by the labour court or for reasons of an economic or technical nature which have been previously recognised by the joint body. In the event of irregular dismissal, the worker must be reinstated in the undertaking or may claim a specific redundancy benefit. The legislator has not chosen to provide for the compulsory reintegration of the worker who has been dismissed in an irregular manner. On the other hand, in the event of non-reintegration, it is planned to punish the employer by means of an additional allowance. There is therefore this restriction on dismissal and heavy penalties for failure to comply with the conditions and related procedures provided by the legislator as a specific protection for the dismissal of workers' representatives. The status of the trade union delegate has been laid down by the social partners in collective labour agreements. The collective labour agreement No. 5 concluded by the National Labour Council on 24 May 1971 lays down the procedure to be followed with a view to the dismissal of a trade union representative and the penalties for irregular dismissal. Your request to amend the legislation does not seem to me, given the current business period, to be on the agenda. Moreover, I have never received such a request from the social partners. I can also tell you that there are no figures available on the number of dismissals of union delegates. With regard to CooperVision's situation, we can inform you that the BTB-UTB, the trade union confederation of the FGTB-ABVV, did not refer the matter to the conciliation office of CP ABVV. This may be due to the fact that the employer immediately paid, without discussion, severance pay for a union agent, as provided for by the Act of 19 March 1991. He categorically refused BTB-UTB's request for the reinstatement of the agent in question. With regard to your question on DDS, I refer you to the Flemish government because DDS is an intercommunal association.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u20	As far as DDS is concerned, it is the responsibility of the Flemish government, but there is also labour legislation in our country, for which you are competent. On the numbers, it's not the first time you've said there's none. You don't want to get numbers when there's a way to get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u21	How?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u22	You are asking the courts and the various public bodies to collect these figures. Have you tried? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u23	I can't do it personally and consult everything. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u24	You cannot do this personally, but I think there is a way to insist and demand more from the administration, unless you tell me that it does what it wants and that you have no power as a minister. In addition to these problems of numbers, you tell us that you have never received a request from the social partners. In any case, I was invited by trade unions following dismissals of delegates to consider the avenues for action. The PTB has also introduced a proposal for a law for the protection of delegates because, unfortunately, in Belgium, a boss can dismiss a trade union delegate more or less as he wishes. All you have to do is pay. There is no obligation to reintegrate in practice. This may exist formally, but there is no obligation in fact. All you have to do is pay a little extra and the trick is done, while – and that's what we're defending in our bill – if there were periodic penalty payments, there would be a way to force the employer to reinstate a worker. It is once again a question of political will. Clearly, this does not seem to be your immediate problem. However, there is an increasingly strong tendency against trade union delegates and this really puts in jeopardy a fundamental right, the right of workers to organize and to be defended by trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u25	Minister, let's go straight to the point! It is unnecessary to recall the context and what previous speakers have said. At a time when the government was still the majority of the government, during last summer's agreement, you announced a new system of accelerated degression of unemployment benefits. It's time to take stock of this case. While waiting for the deal, you passed it to Parliament through bills, with the parliamentary majority, with the N-VA being associated with it. I can't imagine the N-VA accepted it without consideration. I cannot help but think that this could lie in accelerating the degression of unemployment benefits. Are you going to take this royal decree while you're in business? What's the status of this royal decree? Thinking? At the editorial office? To the Council of State? What exactly is the situation? What is your strategy? Is it still in your to do list? From a legal point of view, taking such an order in ordinary affairs seems to me to be a complete nonsense. Beyond that, I find that this subject is often the subject of cartoons, using inter alia comparisons with other countries of the European Union or the OECD. When it is said that our system is very generous, perhaps we should consider all the benefits offered in those other states which have systems, sometimes extended and where unemployment benefits may no longer be called such, because they mimic our system of unemployment benefits. Thank you for making your intentions transparent. We may not be able to question a minister about his intentions, but the deal jobs that occurred in the reconstituted parliamentary majority, I would like to have the entire puzzle to see clearly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u26	Mr Minister, my colleague spoke on the subject of the degressive nature of unemployment benefits. The Commission is currently analysing some aspects of this deal. That was still the case this morning. The "degressivity" component is not included in this package of legislative proposals. It's quite logical, because it's a government competence. I hear it's an arrest. However, we have had the opportunity to express our fears and to describe the whole unfair and unrealistic nature of this degression. However, you accepted this deal last summer. What is your own position now? How are you going to do that if you keep the mindset to put this measure into practice, given your government's day-to-day business? My question is very simple. Can we reassure everyone? Can we consider that this will not happen and that, given the context, despite the previous deal, this part falls into the water? Much of the population would be reassured. My question is as simple as that, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u27	Mr Minister, the question of the degressive nature of unemployment benefits has been a great deal of ink. It was one of the flagship measures of last summer's deal jobs. This type of measure is often justified by the idea of a shortage in the labour market, which should allow job seekers to search more actively and to return to work more quickly. However, in the government agreement, you made a commitment not to touch on the degression of unemployment benefits; but the idea of strengthening degression has resurfaced. Nor does it appear in the Bills of the deal jobs that are currently under discussion here in the House. The issue is referred to the legal debate, as the newspaper L'Avenir called it. Here is the question: can degression be introduced by royal decree? You just answered it off the microphone. This action is therefore within the competence of the Government. Minister, what are your intentions regarding this increased degression of unemployment benefits? Are you going to introduce it via royal decree? Is the support of the N-VA for the texts of the trade jobs currently under discussion here in the House conditioned by such a royal decree? On what evidence do you base yourself on the justification that an increase in the degressivity of unemployment benefits will lead to employment? Currently, one out of every two unemployed (49.1 per cent compared to 40.7 per cent in 2015) is at risk of poverty. How do you think this risk of poverty will be reduced with a project to increase the degression of unemployment benefits? Do you have figures on the number of workers who regularly use unemployment insurance because of the succession of temporary and precarious contracts, but who do not meet the condition for entering the first period of unemployment? According to you, this measure aims to activate the (decrease) group of unemployed (currently 327,403 full unemployed) and a workforce reserve of 1.8 million people who do not perform paid work on a regular basis. But there are 134,570 vacancies. Even if all the so-called jobs were filled, there would still be 193,000 unemployed. Is not the main problem to be solved the general lack of job offers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as agreed under the summer agreement on the employment deal, I forwarded my proposal to the Prime Minister at the end of November 2018 for the timing of the evolution of unemployment benefits over time. My proposal contains a detailed, in-depth and practical analysis, the result of cooperation between the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation, the ONEM and my strategic unit. In this proposal, I am acting on the problematic points of the current regime in accordance with the notification. The final proposal is a consistent example that offers a response to the problematic points of the current unemployment benefit regulation. I distinguished five points. I'll give you the details immediately. This proposal will be submitted to the social partners. In order to provide you with more detailed information on the problems in the current regime: the first element is complexity. The rules governing unemployment, in particular the rules for determining the amount of unemployment benefit, are rather complex. There are three different wage ceilings and there are ten steps in the degressivity in the current system. The second element is the limited activating character. The second element is the limited activating character. Under the current rules, there is little tension between the maximum and the minimum benefits for the unemployed with a family burden. There is a very limited area of degressivity. Up to 10 steps, the reduction in benefit per step is very small. There is therefore only one exception, namely the transition from the twelfth to the thirteenth month of unemployment. For the low-wage unemployed, there is no or almost no degressivity among the unemployed with a family burden and the single. They receive the minimum benefit throughout the period of unemployment, which causes a number of problems. Another element is the social injustice of lower wages. Social injustice for low wages [[.]] In the current system, the loss of income in the transition from work to unemployment is the highest in lower wages, from the minimum wage to a gross wage of around EUR 2 000. This effect has always been present, but has become much greater over the past ten years due to the reduction in the burden on low wages. I am thinking, among other things, of the parafiscal and social work bonus, the tax work bonus, flat-rate deductions, professional costs and the tax-free allowance. The net wage-unemployment allowance replacement rate is 95% for higher wages, while for low wages it is only 75%. A person with a gross wage of 2 500 euros sees his net income in unemployment falling by only 95 euros, while a gross wage of 1 600 euros is about 440 euros. A fourth element is that training efforts are insufficiently honoured. There is insufficient remuneration for training efforts. The current system provides for the temporary cessation of degressivity for a limited number of situations. In doing so, the reduction in the rate of degressivity at the level of the benefit in force during the fourteenth month of unemployment or, if training starts later, at the level applicable at the start of the training course. This has the effect of continuing the degressivity if the study or training is followed in the first year of unemployment. The unemployed person will then see his benefits fall during the course of the training course, i.e. until he reaches the benefit level of the fourteenth month of unemployment. It is also a problem that needs to be resolved. Fifth, there is the tax injustice for the higher benefits, le traitement fiscalement injuste pour les assignments plus élevées. The current system of farm tax on unemployment benefits is correct. The deduction made is in line with the final statement of personal income tax, but the reform of the specific tax deduction for unemployment benefits by the end of 2014 has the effect of fully taxing the amount of benefits above EUR 1 460 per month for single and unmarried partners. We have tried to solve all these problems in the current system. For those of you who propose the matter a little easy and populist, namely that we clearly define the degressivity in the second phase, I say that is not my proposal. My proposal is to develop a regime of unemployment benefits for the next 10 to 15 years with activation elements, whereby we address the degressivity well with equal treatment according to the situation and do not impose it in ten steps. All these elements are in the proposal. The administration rightly calls for any adjustments to the system to be sustainable in order to maintain a system that will remain in place in the longer term. We have indeed taken this question into account in the proposal that I will deliver to the social partners. I look forward to the opinions and reactions on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I share your appreciation of the complexity of the current system. Let us recognize that when we talk about accelerating degression, we wonder what can still be accelerated, because the differences sometimes do not matter much, the maximum and minimum levels being relatively close, since the system is designed to have a very strict ceiling at the level of the first period. Among the problematic points of the current royal decree, the third period also raises real questions. Some levels are now below the poverty line. You did not mention it, but this should be seen in the perspective of a revision of this royal decree. You have focused a great deal on the findings, quite rightly, but I would like to go further. Since the Prime Minister has made a clear commitment to having the royal decrees available to us, there is an ongoing consultation with the social partners, it seems to me normal that you can, in full transparency, provide us with a copy of the proposal you sent to the social partners. It would grow you and the government. It seems to me wise to have sent it to the social partners. Given their expertise and their insight into the daily reality of unemployment benefits, this seems to me a good idea. I imagine it is in your proposal, but it seems to me that we must support the effort of those who form and value it. This will also allow for re-employment. Personally, I do not agree at all with the position that accelerated degression will enable us to return to employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear your technical development about the nature of your proposal and its rationale, which you think is relevant. I must confess that I am somewhat surprised by your conviction. I thought it was more because you were more or less forced to do so as a result of a compromise. I have the feeling that there is still a certain conviction of the need to change the system and introduce degression. If I have noted correctly, this proposal was postponed at the end of November. I agree with my colleague on two aspects. On the one hand, the advisability of submitting the matter to the social partners. Indeed, I believe that they are observers and actors whose judgment is relevant. This will allow us to see if these leads are more or less relevant and interesting. I am a great advocate of social dialogue. Every time we ask them, it's a good thing. On the other hand, on our interest in receiving a copy of your proposal, so that we can analyse it. But you did not answer my fundamental question: do you have the capacity and the will to pass this text by the end of the legislature? I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u31	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u32	If I understand correctly, this will not happen!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u33	That's your conclusion!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u34	Do you still believe that? Do you still hope? Thank you for your non-response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u35	Minister, I note that, in my previous question on the protection of union delegates, you said to me: "I am in the business of day-to-day business". On the other hand, here, when it comes to reducing the rights of workers and social beneficiaries, there is no current business. You also didn't answer me about the possibility of a deal with the N-VA. So I wonder: are you on the same line as Bart De Wever when he declares..
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u36	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u37	... when he says, "The Voka is my boss"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u38	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u39	No, you say, "Unizo is my boss"! You also invoke several alibi.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u40	Alibis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u41	Yes, your five points for example. Complexity is not a reason for degression. It can be reduced to address the complexity issue. Unfair treatment of low wages is another reason to justify a levelling down.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u42	Is that an alibi?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u43	And then, the tax trap...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u44	Is that an alibi, too? I'll take note!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u45	The tax trap is a problem that your government has never solved – as with pensions. Basically, what is the impact of increased degression on motivation in job search? Even yesterday, in La Libre Belgique, an internal FOREM study showed that only one out of four excluded from unemployment found employment after two years. To this is added degression. In short, an entire system pushes them towards poverty without solving the problem of employment. Professor Ides Nicaise of the KUL explains that the reduction of benefits does not reduce unemployment. It is now scientifically proven that this does not encourage finding a job. On the other hand, this results in greater pressure on wages. We always go back to it: these activation policies do not allow for a job, but exert downward pressure on wages. It is in this sense that they clearly follow an employer's logic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u46	Mr President, Minister, you know that this text is of particular interest to me. It amended the Act of 22 January 1985 containing social provisions with regard to parental leave and was passed in July 2018. As a reminder, the novelty lies in the fact that the worker will now be able to reduce his benefits by one tenth of a full-time working week for a period of forty months, corresponding to half a day per week or one whole day every two weeks. When I tabled my question last November and until recently, there was still no royal decree. The measure cannot therefore be implemented. Was a royal decree taken? If so, why did it take so long for this law to be published in the Monitor? If not, when will you take this order before the end of this legislature? I had already pleaded that trust between employers and workers could be built upon, by not introducing a mechanism subjecting the taking of the 1/10th to an agreement of the employer by AR, and by remaining in line with the logic of parental leave taken full-time, half-time or 1/5th. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u47	Minister, we voted in Parliament on 2 September last year. I have to confess that I have a lot of questions from citizens who would like to make use of the new regulation, don't they, Mrs Lanjri? We are now a few months away and I must confess that I cannot answer the questions that are being asked. Apparently, another KB has to be published. We are told that a draft text was drawn up by the FOD WASO and the RVA, but that some technical issues need to be clarified. Opinions should also be requested, including from different management committees. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. Can you explain what is going on in this dossier today? What steps have already been taken and what are still to be taken? What deadline do you use for the publication of the Royal Decree? What can we Members of Parliament say if citizens want to make quick use of this arrangement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I hope that my answer will satisfy you. After all, there is another opinion. Normally, both royal decrees will be adopted in this month. However, I will give a little more text and explanation. After all, you know that I have to go through a lot of procedures and ask for advice, which can lead to delays, for which we apologise. In this way, however, things sometimes happen in this country. The Law of 2 September 2018 amending the Recovery Act of 22 January 1985 on social provisions relating to parental leave aims to allow workers to take up parental leave, which can already be included today in the form of a full break and a reduction in employment benefits by a second or a fifth, including in the form of a reduction in employment benefits by a tenth. Under the reorganization law, the King is now given the opportunity to include this new mode of admission in the royal decrees establishing the right to parental leave. The effective application of the new modality to include a tenth is therefore not automatic. First, the relevant royal decrees must be effectively adapted to that effect. In the meantime, a draft royal decree was drawn up to enable the new one-tenth modality in the private sector. Another draft royal decree lays down the same possibility for the public sector. In the meantime, we received a favourable opinion from the Finance Inspector. We assume that the Minister for the Budget will also give a favourable opinion. My head of the cabinet tells me that the opinion has arrived today. After the Council of Ministers has given its agreement, the draft royal decree for the private sector will be submitted for advice to the social partners in the National Labour Council. The draft Royal Decree for the public sector will still be submitted to the Public Enterprises Committee and the A Committee. The Council of State will also give an opinion on both draft royal decrees. The draft Royal Decree also contains a number of additional measures relating to the flexibility of certain leave schemes. Full-time and half-time parental leave will be available for inclusion on a weekly or monthly basis. The current minimum period of one month in the case of full-time medical leave would be subject to the abovementioned royal decrees and provided that the employer's agreement can be adjusted to one, two or three weeks. In accordance with Opinion No. 2014 of the National Labour Council provides for the amended Article 105 of the Recovery Act that the Royal Decree may provide that the exercise of the right to parental leave equal to one tenth for agreement must be submitted to the employer. In the logic of that opinion, the draft royal decree stipulates that the new one-tenth modality must be submitted to the employer for agreement. Finally, with regard to the date of publication of the law in question, several reasons have caused some time to lie between the vote and the publication, including a number of reasons for which I am unable to understand in my capacity as Minister of Labour. The law in question, for example, had to be signed not only by me but also by a number of other ministers. Mr President, Mrs Fonck, everything is ready, the royal decisions are ready. I hope I can bring that to the Council of Ministers this month. I understand your concerns and questions. We have worked as quickly as possible and I hope that it will be possible to decide at the end of February. So you can serve the people of answer and people can also apply the scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u49	Mr Minister, we are asking you, but most of all we are asked by parents who are naturally asking for such a measure - rightly! - since it was widely announced. The social partners have agreed on this for five years now! In 2014, the latter had in fact issued a favourable opinion. When it takes five years to implement a measure deemed favourable by social consultation, it is extremely long! With all due respect, the processing of this file since the July 2018 vote is too long! The file has yet to be transferred to the government, particularly for the financial inspection. I assume that a new passage through the government will then be required. There are relatively few weeks left before the possible dissolution of the Chambers - let us not go into detail, you know the various mechanisms - and it is in my opinion your responsibility, Minister, to make a commitment. Not only to ensure that this is returned to the government and that the royal decree is made, but that it is enforced by May at the latest, or before the dissolution of the Houses and we begin a new legislature. This is the least the parents can expect, so I would like to stress and thank you on their behalf. I hope that there will be no new factors of resistance in this regard in the government!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I understand that one of the reasons for the delay is that other ministers have waited too long to sign. In times of digital communication, I find it very strange that people need weeks to autograph. That's kafkaesque, which I once fought against. You may remember that battle. I have no second to doubt your commitment and support in that file. That has also been shown in detail. However, the progress of that dossier also says a lot about the system in which we work. Mrs Fonck pointed out that the social partners had already stated in an opinion several years ago that they were in favour of this. Why then, for the umpteenth time, should an opinion be requested, after which everything has to be discussed again with the A Committee and the Public Enterprises Committee? That's unbelievable! If we were to act politically at local level in this way, I think we would soon have lost people's confidence. Speed is apparently not the highest in national politics. I would also like to say a few words about the entry into force. I do not know exactly how it should be done, but I suspect that we will have to work on the basis of quarters so that the system can be introduced easily. We are now in the first quarter, but an introduction before the second quarter, starting on 1 April, is unlikely to succeed, given that the opinion of the Council of State is still to be obtained. This brings us in the third quarter, at the beginning of the summer holidays, but in July it is probably already less relevant for parents. We'll finally talk about autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u51	It's a month, not a quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u52	All right, but considering everything, it will probably have taken a year after Parliament's approval to introduce that system. Along with many of us, you understand that this is not very trusting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u53	Mr President, this is a subject that I have had a long-standing interest in. Mrs Lanjri is leaving, but she has joined me on this subject and I am pleased to do so. Minister, you agreed to recognize, last July, discrimination between the public and private sectors for maternity leave for young mothers. In fact, as many public-sector mothers do not lose weeks of maternity leave if they are excluded or ill or in the case of complicated pregnancy during the last weeks before childbirth, so many mothers in the private sector lose them. They are doubly punished. They are both sick or have a serious pregnancy problem, but in addition, their maternity leave after delivery can then be reduced by a maximum of five weeks, and therefore be reduced to nine weeks after delivery instead of fourteen. This double sanction is unacceptable. It is a two-speed system depending on the status of these young mothers. I hope you are convinced that they are potentially experiencing the same difficulties of pregnancy and the same difficulties after delivery. I tabled this in November. We are in February, almost eight months later. You promised us a consultation with the social partners. I understood in your expression that you were convinced of the merits of this one. I myself have a long-standing bill on this subject. Minister, what is your position? What is the response of the social partners? Can a path be opened before the end of this legislature, with all the members of the committee, and in coordination with you, to amend this legislation and correct what is not worthy of the 21st century for the young mothers concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the Royal Decree of 19 November 1998 on leave and absences granted to staff members of State administrations, only absences for illness not related to pregnancy are treated as working days which can be carried forward until after post-natal leave. In other words, there is no difference in treatment between the public and private sectors if the absence for illness is due to pregnancy. By letter of 17 July 2018, I referred the matter to the National Labour Council (NCT) for the opinion of the social partners on how to bring the rules of the private sector into line with those of the public sector with regard to absences for illness that are not related to pregnancy. So far, I have not received an answer. Concertation is under way. You know that I am positive about this problem that you mentioned last year. I have asked the social partners for an opinion. I haven't received it yet. This is for my point of view and for the state of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u55	What to say, Minister? I hear the facts that you put forward. I have two comments to make. First, this type of record requires more than a courier. You have regular contacts with the social partners. I believe that you are quite in the capacity to mobilise the social partners for a significant return to this issue. All you need to do is meet with the NTC president or each other or make a phone call. Secondly, I hear, in your leadership, a new subtlety that is factual. It is not a question of Immunizing sick leave that occurs at the end of pregnancy, before delivery, so that the young mother can keep all her maternity leave. Only sick leave that is not related to pregnancy is immunized. It was a subtlety that had not been mentioned last July. I'm sorry. In relation to this, I would like to take you for a moment to leave the field of discrimination between each other in this case. I simply invite you to see the reality of the women involved. It's all to the advantage of women and the baby. This is not negligible especially in cases of complicated pregnancy which sometimes leads to hospitalization, prematurity. In addition, the effect of returning to work for these young women must also be considered. All these elements must be taken into account. It seems to me, therefore, that it is not only necessary to correct the system for diseases which are not related to pregnancy, but rather that they should be immunised against all pre-natal and non-pregnancy-related diseases and allow mothers to take full maternity leave. Compared with other European countries, Belgium does not have such an extraordinary system for the protection of motherhood and young mothers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u56	Minister, a few months ago, I asked your predecessor about the annual figures for workplace harassment complaints. This showed a sharp increase in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the overall figures of previous years. While so far we were around 600 cases per year, we were already over 200 cases in the first quarter alone. I wish I could understand this phenomenon. Is this a "seasonal" phenomenon or is this increase due to new elements such as #MeToo and #BalanceTonPorc, which would finally have allowed the release of women's words? To do this, could you provide me with quarterly figures for complaints over the past four years? This will determine whether it is a seasonal phenomenon or an upsurge.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u57	Minister, I would like to question you on another subject. On the occasion of Women's Day 2018, Furia, the organizer, has highlighted a set of requirements with guidelines for an adequate approach to sexual cross-border behavior at work. One of their directives concerns employers who need to focus on prevention. They are in favour of repeated information campaigns at company level. The Welfare Act obliges employers to publish all data on the prevention officer, the trusted person and the procedures in the employment regulations, but that is clearly not enough. Employers should also use other channels to inform their staff, such as the company magazine, intranet, specific brochures, posters, etc. Three elements are particularly important. Firstly, to make it clear to everyone what sexual transversal behavior is exactly. Secondly, sexual transversal behavior is not tolerated. We must be very clear about this. Thirdly, who can be contacted if they are to be dealt with? A code of conduct should be drawn up. It goes beyond labour regulations, clarifies central values and applies to everyone. This code of conduct should be signed by all staff and should be regularly recalled. Non-compliance should be subject to sanctions. Companies and organisations should be able to take preventive action from the bottom up. Workers are experts in the field of cross-border behaviour at work and can propose actions or measures. A plea for a working group in which employees are clearly represented. My questions are as follows. What do you think of Furia's demands? Will you negotiate certain requirements with employers' organisations? If so, which one? At what time will this happen? I would like to hear your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u58	Mr Flahaux, I am somewhat surprised because I have received another question from you concerning Knack. Perhaps I am misinformed, but here I have your written question in which you are asking for further information. I'm going to check the numbers for your question, but I'm a little surprised I didn't get the question you asked. Mrs Jiroflée, you gave me the right question. I will also answer the question that I have received from Mr Flahaux. I have taken note of a survey on unwanted behaviour at work, which was recently published in Knack, and of Furia's demands to address unwanted sexual behaviour at work. In any event, the results of the survey show that the #MeToo movement has ensured that internal procedures are used more frequently in companies. Victims of unwanted sexual behaviour are increasingly afraid to share their experiences, removing the problem from the taboo. The possibility of being heard in a confidential context by a trained person ensures that the victim feels recognized. In addition, a dialogue between the parties may also take place in this context, or a solution may be sought, together with the employer. For more serious facts one can of course turn to the courts, but that is not always easy. One of the main stumbling blocks is often the lack of evidence and testimonies. The legislation on protection against unwanted sexual behaviour at work dates back to 1992, but has since been substantially amended several times: in 2002, 2007 and 2014. The procedures were improved each time. At this stage, therefore, there is a particular need for awareness to ensure that the procedures and the competent persons are sufficiently well-known and therefore the welfare law and the code on well-being at work oblige the employer to inform his employees through different channels. For example, he has to publish the procedures through the employment regulations and the contact details of the prevention advisor on psychosocial aspects and of any confidential persons should be given in an easily accessible place for the employee, e.g. by putting them on the Internet, etc. During its inspections, the General Directorate for Welfare Supervision of the Work systematically checks whether the procedures in the company exist and are sufficiently publicized. I would also like to draw attention to the existence of the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, an independent institution which provides assistance to the victims who wish to take action, both in their company and in legal proceedings. In recent years, the Institute has also participated in the awareness-raising actions of the FPS Employment, aimed at prevention advisors on psychosocial aspects and confidants. In addition, work should be done on corporate culture through a zero tolerance policy on unwanted behaviour and through open dialogue, so that the victim dares to talk without fear of reprisals, regardless of the fact that the perpetrator may be in a higher position. The survey also shows that the #MeToo movement has also had a positive impact on employers who are now taking this problem more seriously. The drafting of a code of conduct as proposed by Furia can certainly be seen as a good practice. The same applies to the setting up of working groups within the company which can develop concrete actions and proposals, with the support of the prevention advisor on psychosocial aspects. I will therefore inform the social partners about the Furia proposals so that they can take this into account. At international level, we also play our part in combating such unacceptable behaviour by cooperating very actively in the work of the International Labour Organisation on unwanted behaviour at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u59	Minister, I've solved the problem. I got the wrong question from an assistant. Good thing my colleague Jiroflée is here. My question was exactly the same as his. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are absolutely right to say that, thanks to the #MeToo movement, matter has been somewhat out of the taboo atmosphere. At first I was a little disappointed that my oral question remained unanswered for a long time, but in the end it is a good thing that it is only being discussed today, because I often feel that we should keep that matter warm, as it is now a little cool. I totally agree with Furia, which says that the employment rules are not really enough. You support that, too. It is about a business culture, which is particularly important, and about a code of conduct. I think it is a good thing that you want to discuss this with the employers. Allow me to add that I think it is particularly important to focus on small businesses. The companies where only a few people work are very often a pain. This is often cited and the institute is also aware of this. Large companies are often fine with a number of these things, but in the small companies, where, so to speak, no one looks inside, there are usually real problems. I therefore expressly ask you to include small businesses in the scope. I will certainly come back to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u61	Minister, as you know, this issue continues to engage us. This question was introduced in October, some elements may be somewhat dated. At the beginning of October 2018, the court received a hundred couriers from Deliveroo as witnesses. The Brussels Labour Auditorate investigates more precisely the working conditions in Belgium of the couriers of the British company. The question at the heart of the debate is whether they should be regarded as employees or self-employed. The survey started in April 2018 and the results are expected in 2019. As a reminder, in October 2017, Deliveroo abruptly renounced the use of couriers hired under contract by the Smart cooperative. The delivery agents protested against this unilateral decision of the company, and the only alternative they had left was to pass independent, almost against their will, which generated movements of anger and strike. According to several trade unions but also according to some judgments in neighbouring countries, there is no doubt: the couriers of Deliveroo are false independents and they suffer the consequences. Nevertheless, the Administrative Commission for the Settlement of the Labour Relations (CRT), which is part of the Social Security SPF, itself concluded that the employment relationship between a delivery company and Deliveroo could not be described as self-employment. The causes mentioned are multiple. The deliverer can be located by GPS at any time. He does not decide the rates himself. There is also the low freedom of organization left to the worker as well as specific instructions on how to take delivery of orders. In short, the courier has very little room for manoeuvre in both the organisation of working time and the work itself. Deliveroo argued against this, arguing that independent couriers appreciated this form of flexibility. I also read about a study at University College in London. It appears that couriers and independent drivers present a higher risk of road accidents. According to the study, 42% of couriers and taxis in the platform economy have already had an accident with their vehicle. 63% say they do not receive training to avoid this type of accident. 30% have already burned a red light because of the pressure they are under. Several points are pointed out: stress, lack of attention due to the use they have to make of their smartphone and fatigue. Couriers often have to deliver a maximum of parcels within a minimum of time. Although the study does not mention the specific case of Belgium, it points to companies such as Deliveroo. All this raises many questions about labour law. Today, the workers of Deliveroo do not benefit from a union structure or a wage structure worthy of this name. They are too often delivered to themselves. Minister, could you give more details about this labour audit investigation? When will the findings be communicated? We've been talking about 2019, but we've been talking about it for many months and we've been asking you about it. What is the result of last October's meeting with the couriers in this regard? Secondly, is it not, in your opinion, desirable that proper insurance should be offered to couriers, given the high number of accidents recorded in the English study? In this connection, could you provide us with the number of accidents recorded in Belgium involving professional couriers? Finally, in the course of our research on these issues, we were able to discover that in Denmark and Sweden framework agreements had been established between digital platforms and trade unions in the transport sectors (e.g. Bzzt taxis) and domestic services (Hilfr), under the leadership of the Danish and Swedish Ministers of Economy and in order to give workers real status and social protection. Such approaches are interesting and could serve as examples. Can we not draw on these Danish and Swedish experiences to apply them at home? Do you intend to act in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u62	Mr Vanden Burre, with regard to labour inspection and the monitoring of social laws, I can inform you that a judicial investigation is under way into the status of the couriers of the company Deliveroo. This survey is coordinated by the Brussels Labour Auditorate. It has already given rise to numerous investigative acts and is unfortunately still ongoing. In accordance with the principles of confidentiality of judicial information and separation of powers, unfortunately I cannot provide you with any further information on this investigation. Like you, I have found that in other countries, very clear decisions have already been made. Here, however, the situation is still under review. The results of this survey will clarify the status of the mails. If it appears that letters are considered to be workers, they will of course also be able to benefit from the social protection linked to this status. It is therefore advisable to wait for the results of this survey before considering the necessary initiatives. However, I agree with you: we asked for this survey in 2016, if my memories are good, and we are now in 2019! I hope that the investigation will be completed very quickly, as you requested. Your other question was about the statistical data on accidents at work. This subject falls under the jurisdiction of the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks (Fedris), which itself falls under the jurisdiction of Minister De Block. I haven't received the numbers yet, but I'm going to ask Fedris. I will then be able to provide you with all the information requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u63	Mr Minister, unfortunately we are turning a little bit in circles on this issue, which takes a lot of time. Decisions have indeed already been made in France, England and Belgium, with the decision of the Social Security SPF that I mentioned. There is obviously a need for justice, but at some point political action must also be taken. I hear you and I want to go back to something that you have mentioned and that I think is interesting and very relevant. If they are recognised as employees by the auditorate, you will take action to ensure that they receive social protection. That said, I think that's the minimum you can do. It's important. It seems to me that the pressure must be put to the maximum for this investigation to succeed because all the elements are there. As far as the figures are concerned, thank you for making the request. Finally, I was talking to you about the Danish and Swedish examples. It would be very interesting to go to these countries in particular because they have a very broad tradition of social consultation. They have found positive solutions for workers who benefit from social protection and who do not interfere with the development of new technologies such as platforms. We are of the opinion that it is not impossible to develop new economic models without going through the "precarization of work" box. On the Scandinavian side, it seems to us that this is the case: they have innovative models of social consultation. I expect our Minister of Economy to have this kind of proactive reaction. I can only encourage you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister will remain until 5.30 p.m. It's 4:00, that's an hour and a half. When I see who's here, I think it's gonna be difficult from points 30 or 31. We're now 14 agenda items away and we've been at it for two hours. I think we can get to point 30. I'm just trying to figure it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u65	Mr President, Minister, on 6 June I asked you a question in this committee about the roll-out of Articles 30 to 35 of the Law of 15 January 2018, the starting date of which was set on 1 April of this year. You stated in your reply that the College of Attorneys General's directive was almost complete and that the first practical tests could be carried out from 1 July 2018. Let me quote from your reply: 'A directive by the Attorney General is currently being drafted. Two preparatory meetings have already been held for this purpose. The directive should be finally adopted by mid-June 2018, i.e. within a few days. As soon as the magistrate is ready, the procedure can begin. The magistrates also receive specific training on the subject of 'discrimination'. Performing a mystery call also requires a specific methodology that the social inspectors have not applied today. It supports the special detection method and specific training is necessary. Unia and the federal police will support the inspectors and provide them with the necessary information and learning material on technical competences. According to current planning, the first files on mysterycalls will be launched in the summer. In summary, mysterycalls could, strictly legally speaking, be carried out from 1 April 2018. However, the preparatory actions necessary for the qualitative implementation of mysterycalls, such as the necessary training of inspectors and the preparation of the new flow, which will arise between Justice and the social inspection, will take time. From 1 July onwards, mystery calls can be performed in practice." To which sources should the inspection services consult in order to meet the requirement of data mining and matching, and on how they can then use it, I did not receive an answer at that time. However, I now hear from the stakeholders that until today there would still be no question of the presence of directives because of the magistracy. I have the following questions. Is the directive present because of the College of Attorneys General and the employment auditors? Can you tell me what sources will serve as a basis for the data mining and matching required by law, which the labour inspectorate must do before applying the technique? How many mysterycalls have been performed since 1 July 2018? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u66	Mr President, Mrs Kitir, the implementation of the special powers conferred on the social inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate by Article 42/1 of the Social Criminal Code of 6 June 2010 in the fight against discrimination requires the application of three cumulative conditions. Firstly, there must be objective indications of discrimination, for example on the basis of a complaint or a notification. The Labour Inspectorate is under no circumstances allowed to carry out a fishing expedition. A number of cases have already been identified for the application of the mysterycalls legislation. The second condition is that these objective indications should be supported by data mining or data matching results. For this my administration works closely with the RSZ. It is important to note that we must also take account of the new GDPR rules. The third condition is that the social inspectors can exercise this specific competence of discrimination only with the prior written consent of the employment auditor or the public prosecutor because, during the investigation to be carried out by the social inspection, criminal offences will also have to be committed if necessary. Therefore, the express consent to commit them is necessary. This third condition in fact includes the practical and legal aspects of this research technique. Here it comes. It has taken a very long time, but the COL, which is a kind of directive of the Attorney General, has been adopted since 20 December 2018. I can assure you that we have insisted every month. This COL gives the public prosecutor the necessary instructions to allow the social inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate to give the consent required by the law to the social inspection of the Social Laws. So this has been completed since the end of last year. It's even confidential. It is said that the Minister cannot take note of this, for reasons of confidentiality. The inspection of the Supervision of Social Laws can now work within the margins of the law and the COL to subject the cases already identified to the mysterycalls. For the sake of clarity, there will also be a discussion tomorrow with the President of the FOD WASO and with the Director-General of the Monitoring of Social Laws in order to clarify not only the fact that the cases in the pipeline are being dealt with very quickly, but also the way in which they will be dealt with. After all, I share your opinion, the mystery calls have been very difficult to achieve in this committee. We've made every effort to get them operational as soon as possible. The Attorney General must have taken his time. Now that all this is done, I want to be absolutely sure that they will also apply this very expertly, according to the rules of the game I have mentioned, in the files that are already available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u67	Minister, it is regrettable that, after all the hurray reports on the introduction of mystery calls, we have to note that they are still not active today. There must be several reasons for that. I understand COL's been in since the end of last year. What about the training of inspectors? In the meantime, are they done or are they still to be done? Will that also result in delays? So I'm just finding that these mystery calls are still an empty box today, since they haven't entered into force yet. I understand that you will take an initiative to speed things up and to get this to happen. However, I am still hungry. There were many hurrays in the press, but actually those mystery calls today are not yet an instrument to help the people who need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u68	Minister, the Belgian subsidiary of the Ikea furniture chain announced on Wednesday 21 November a reorganization that could lead to the elimination of 100 to 120 jobs. The positions involved in the manoeuvre are located at the head office in Zaventem and in the branch's human resources departments, which employ more than 3,500 people in Belgium. This is obviously a terrible announcement for employment in our country and for the families affected by these redundancies, in particular by a company which, moreover, practices large-scale tax evasion at European level, as my colleagues in the European Greens have shown by revealing their very original tax arrangements. The Renault procedure has therefore been activated and several meetings between trade unions and management are planned or have taken place. Indeed, this question dates from last November. You also indicated, minister, that you were going to follow this file closely. That is why I am asking you this question today. What initiatives have been taken on this issue? Have you been able to prevent dry redundancies? What proposals did the government make in the discussion between the social partners? I am thinking in particular of the proposals in connection with the RCC (unemployment scheme with business supplement). Was that possible? Finally, what legislative initiatives do you intend to take in order to better protect employees against this type of restructuring plan in general? Unfortunately, there are others mentioned in the oral questions below. I am thinking, for example, of the extension of the Renault law to subcontractors. My group supports such a bill. I'd like to know if you support her and if we can move forward on this ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u69	Mr Vanden Burre, in the event of collective dismissal, the Royal Decree of 24 May 1976 on collective dismissals requires the employer to communicate certain information to the public authorities. In this context, on 21 November 2018, my administration received a notification from Ikea Belgium to announce a collective dismissal of between 100 and 120 workers. The procedure for information and consultation with workers' representatives is currently under way. With regard to the scheme of unemployment with additional business, it is up to the employer himself, and not the minister, to apply for recognition of a company under restructuring in order to be able to implement a plan of RCC with derogations. The legislation does not provide for automation. In order to meet the requirement for collective redundancies within the meaning of the RCC regulations, however, the termination must reach 10% of the average number of employees employed in the UTE (Operating Technical Unit) during the previous year. Finally, with regard to legislative initiatives to better protect employees from such restructuring plans, discussions are being conducted on the basis of my proposals within the Group of Ten. I've been waiting for the results for a few years already.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u70	Minister, I take note of your answer. As you talked about salaries, I hope, of course, that we can move forward on this issue. In any case, all this legislation will have to be reviewed in the near future, because we need to improve the rights of workers in the face of unacceptable behaviour. They are all the more so because they are made by Ikea, a company that is known in Europe as a champion of tax evasion. There is a need for greater protection for workers who are anchored in our home. It's a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u71	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 27809 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u72	Mr. President, Minister, every year, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men receives several reports about women workers who have been laid off as a result of their medically assisted procreation efforts. You are aware that these are particularly heavy and difficult maternity routes. Beyond this Institute, there are testimonies from concerned women. I can assure you that as many employers as possible are understanding and with which things are going very positively, as often as the situation degenerates and leads to dismissal. It is true that these women have difficult journeys because everything always happens at the last minute and it is according to a whole series of conditions that they escape that they must at some point absent themselves from their work, report to the infertility clinic and receive the necessary treatment in order to try to become pregnant. This situation is not acceptable. That is why I have tabled a bill amending the Acts of 16 March 1971 on labour and 3 July 1978 on employment contracts to provide protection for workers who are absent from work for the diagnosis and treatment of infertility. Tomorrow, as you know, I'm organizing a round table with the ASBL Desir d'enfant to which I invited you. The issue is being dealt with today, but it is by chance that I tabled it at the end of November. The Committee of Experts for the Evaluation of Federal Anti-Discrimination Legislation also considers that persons who use medically assisted reproductive therapy should not be discriminated against for this reason. It also envisages adding medically assisted reproductive treatments to the list of grounds protected in the Gender Act. Minister, on the basis of my bill, but also of the various factual and objective elements that I have just brought to you, are you in favour of protecting workers who use medically assisted procreation so that they may be absent from work, even sometimes at the last minute (because this is an area where it is not possible to do otherwise in view of medical issues) with the maintenance of pay, and in order to avoid the dismissal of such persons for having requested such leave at the last minute?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I think I have already indicated that I was in favour of your proposal. Here are some additional information. I have had several times the opportunity to express my support for initiatives to allow women workers to be absent from work to receive treatment against infertility and to protect them from arbitrary dismissal. One in ten couples has fertility problems. So it seems obvious that a lot of employers are saluting someone who has to deal with such a situation. That is why this theme cannot be a taboo, for both workers and leaders. We don't choose to live this problem. This is a subject that we prefer to keep for ourselves and that can make the people concerned very uncertain. The problems faced by sterile couples who wish to make children and be able to combine medical examinations and possible fertility treatments with their work therefore deserve special attention. Women workers who are subjected to such treatment are already protected by the Act of 10 May 2007 on combating discrimination between men and women. In the absence of criteria specific to medically assisted reproduction, they are protected by sex. An explicit mention would, however, provide greater clarity and symbolic importance. The committee of experts responsible for the evaluation of the fight against discrimination between men and women has already indicated that it aims to check whether it is appropriate to add to the list of protected criteria that of treatment for medically assisted reproduction. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men supported this addition. With this in mind, it has published an informative brochure for female workers undergoing fertility treatment to inform them about their rights and obligations and the protective measures that are being applied. The publication is available free of charge on the Institute's website. Such a solution, while adequate in the fight against discrimination by protecting, in particular, the worker against arbitrary dismissal, does not, however, give her the right to be absent from work while retaining her remuneration in the event of specific treatment for fertility. As far as the latter is concerned, different avenues could provide a solution, each with its own opportunities but also with its own difficulties. It is important to take into account the various facets, such as working conditions, flexibility and privacy, which are subject to debate, and to discuss them in detail with all stakeholders, including the social partners. We must find a feasible and sustained solution to this issue. As you know, we are in a current business situation, but I remain open to find a solution as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. This aspect is enshrined and recognized in terms of "protected motive" in the Gender Law, but this is not going to solve the problem of repeated medical certificates and, above all, that of the departure of unforeseeable work. This is a real concern, because the departure is not predictable and always takes place at the last minute, because it is at this very moment that the person in question needs fertility treatment. In addition, there is also the compensation component. Here, the medical certificate is of no use because it is usually one-time certificates (one day or even half a day) and repeated. Every employer knows at some point that the worker is likely to be absent from fertility treatment. There are then two situations: either this is going well, or it is not going well. In the latter case, the worker is not protected by a medical certificate. Hence the idea of moving forward. I hear you say you're open, but your position leaves me a little Gros-Jean as before. Therefore, Mr President, could my proposal for a law not be sent to the social partners in order to force the debate? The minister will tell me that this is Parliament's responsibility. Minister, if you take a step on your side, maybe we could speed things up. It's been a long time since we've said we have to do things, but the lines don't really move. I'm calling for an accelerator. As you will be there tomorrow, you will be able to announce it to the ASBL which defends the young future mothers and the couples concerned. On their behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u75	Mrs Fonck, your proposal will be forwarded to the social partners. So you're gonna write that down, Mr. Commission Secretary? I'm not gonna write this down myself. We have employees for that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u76	Minister, as a result of the integration of the OCMWs in Flanders, there has been a lack of clarity about the political leave for council members. Today, a city council member who is also OCMW council member has in principle the right to accumulate political leave from both mandates. The question is whether this will still be the case in the new legislature with the double mandate. Technically, OCMW and municipality remain two separate legal entities, each with its own council, but both councils will have the same composition as a result of the new Flemish municipal decree. It is also unclear whether political leave can be taken by members of the special social services committee. Formerly they were entitled to political leave because it was part of the mandate as OCMW council member. From 1 January 2019 this is a separate mandate for which one should not necessarily be OMCW or city council member. Minister, will the political leave for OCMW and city council be combined? Do you still envisage a legislative amendment to allow or reduce this? By what time do you intend to put it to the vote in Parliament, if necessary? Is there a provision which provides that members of the special social services committee are also entitled to political leave, which is not explicitly provided for now? If not, are you currently working on a solution to allow this? By what time do you intend to submit a solution to Parliament for a vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u77	Mr Van Hecke, for employers and employees in the public sector, it is up to the relevant minister to provide the necessary information. I wouldn't want to exceed my powers. For private workers, the legal basis for political leave is laid down in the Law of 19 July 1976 on leave for the exercise of a political mandate. For the municipal and OCMW council members, the practical arrangements for taking the relevant leave are worked out by a KB. On the basis of the current regulations, employees who are members of, inter alia, a city council and a social welfare council have the right to a political leave to exercise their political mandate. According to the Flemish Decree of 22 December 2017 on local government, the federal regulations now need to be adapted for the Flemish municipalities, except the six Flemish outskirts and Voeren. Indeed, the decree in question provides that a special social service committee must be established within each Social Welfare Board from 1 January 2019. This special committee may include, in addition to ordinary council members, members who are not OCMW or city council members, the so-called externalities. The latter are not entitled to political leave under the Law of 19 July 1976 as opposed to the members of the council. For that gap, a solution was provided for by the Law of 14 December 2018 laying down various labour provisions. In concrete terms, the law of 19 July 1976 laid down a legal basis for the external members concerned on the basis of which the parties concerned would be able to exercise political leave. However, the effective exercise of that leave presupposes that the practical arrangements for taking up such leave are laid down by royal decree, in particular the designation of a maximum number of working days or part of working days per month. My administration has therefore drawn up a draft royal decree which lays down the political leave of the external members concerned. This draft has recently received a positive opinion from the social partners in the National Labour Council. It was then submitted for an opinion to the Legislative Section of the Council of State. In addition, the RVA has prepared a royal decree which provides that the presentation fees resulting from the mandate of the Special Committee are not regarded as wages and therefore allows cumulation with unemployment benefits. That draft Royal Decree was submitted for an opinion to the Management Committee of the RVA on 7 February 2019. In reply to your question about the cumulation of political leave of city council members and OCMW council members, I can tell you that it is not my intention to reduce the current possibilities in this respect, unless you insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u78	Minister, the preparation of the Royal Decree and the collection of opinions obviously all take time, but these questions do live on the ground. That is why I think it is important that a signal can be sent, for example through the VVSG, so that the necessary information can be disseminated. I assume that it will be a while before the royal decree will be signed and published, but I hope that it will be done fairly quickly. I understand what you're saying about the accumulation. You won't change anything. This means that the current regime remains, twice. As far as the public sector is concerned, I have to turn to your colleague, but you say that you are not aware of any initiatives in this area either. It is now settled for Flemish officials. For the private sector, it is okay and I have heard that it is for the Flemish officials and the officials of the local authorities. Apparently, it's not okay for the federal officials yet. I hope we can shift a gear up there, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u79	We have drawn attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u80	I will also ask your colleague about this, referring to the answer you gave today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u81	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, this is a November issue. Several politicians then expressed their satisfaction at the idea of the future installation of the Chinese company Alibaba at the Liège airport site. In particular, the Prime Minister contacted the Executive Chairman of the Alibaba Group after his interview. He said: "We were convincing when we explained how we were going to reform this country, including through the tax shift. This quality dialogue has established a relationship of trust and our reforms have been decisive in this decision." When the Prime Minister announces that he has fought hard, one has the right to wonder what benefits he has promised to his e-commerce partner; to question also the commitments made by Chinese society and the economic, social and environmental benefits of this project; or to the loss of profits for Belgian companies, SMEs, who would see a massive and competitive offer landing in the region. At this stage, we have very little information on this. If we welcome the prospect of creating quality jobs, we will also be careful to ensure that economic, social and environmental guarantees are scrupulously respected. Minister, have you met with the leaders of the Alibaba Group? If not, have other members of the government met with them? What are the federal government's commitments to Alibaba? What socio-economic arguments have they convinced Alibaba to settle in Liège? If you have been informed, can you possibly tell us what commitments the Walloon regional government would have made to Alibaba? What are the company's return commitments to Belgium. If so, how have these commitments been formalized? Are specific clauses provided for in the event of Alibaba's non-compliance with its commitments? Has an employment impact assessment been carried out and quantified? If so, what conclusions do they make to judge this agreement favourably? How many jobs will be created? What kind? How many jobs could they disappear? Knowing the attractiveness of this branch of commerce for flexible work, night work and part-time work, how do you intend to ensure decent working conditions for workers? Can you tell us whether the Chinese State intervened in this case, for example by granting subsidies or specific aid to Alibaba? If so, do they comply with competition law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u82	Dear colleague, in recent years intense discussions have been held between the Walloon Export and Foreign Investment Agency (AWEX) and Alibaba on a possible investment in Liège. At the request of the Walloon Region and AWEX, the federal authority supported these efforts. Last summer, the Prime Minister had an interview with the founder of Alibaba, Jack Ma. During a mission to Shanghai last November, I myself met Alibaba's new CEO, Daniel Zhang. This fine example of federalism of cooperation has led to the award of AWEX's efforts and to the realization of Alibaba's important investments in Liège. According to AWEX figures, a first investment of €75 million will create 300 direct jobs. In a second stage, these figures will only increase. I would like to stress that this important investment demonstrates the real potential of e-commerce in our country. The federal government's efforts in this area are bearing fruit. I can assure you that we were not the only ones interested in this case. Our northern neighbours would also have liked to receive this investment. At the request of Alibaba and AWEX, the case was sealed by signing a memorandum of understanding. For further information, I refer you to the Government of the Walloon Region. However, I would like to stress the noncongruent nature of this memorandum. As part of its tasks of monitoring compliance with working and wage conditions, the Labour Inspectorate of DG Social Law Supervision will scrupulously monitor compliance with social regulations and the proper functioning of social consultation bodies within the firm Alibaba.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u83	Minister, thank you for your answers. I did not get an answer to some of my questions. I understand that you will enforce the employment rules, but I have no answer as to the quality and type of jobs that will be created. I'll stick with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u84	Mr.President, Minister, in March 2017, the feasible and manageable labour law introduced the concept of giving one worker leave in favour of another. That was part of one of my proposals. This is to allow a worker to offer some of his or her conventional days of leave to another worker whose child under the age of 21 is seriously ill. This act is accompanied by several conditions, including the existence, in certain cases, of a sectoral collective agreement. The procedure is not cumbersome but has the merit of leaving some autonomy and margins to the social partners. After 20 months of implementation, Minister, do you have any information concerning the referral of the chairmen of joint committees by organisations represented on the committees concerning the leave scheme? Has such a referral already led to the conclusion of an ad hoc sectoral convention, as provided for in the law? If a referral has not been made within six months, are there any examples where a collective agreement or an amendment to the labour regulations on this subject has been reached at the company level? If agreements have been concluded, can you tell me in what way the social partners and/or companies have taken action to put into practice this possibility of giving leave offered by law?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u85	Mr President, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, the law on work that is feasible and manageable introduces a legal framework for organizing, within a company, a system for the donation of conventional leave. I remember very well that you launched this idea. However, this law provides that the framework for the system of the grant of conventional leave must be specified by a collective labour agreement (CTC) concluded within a joint body at the sector or sub-sector level. In the absence of a CLC at the level of the sector or sub-sector to which the company belongs within six months of the referral to the Joint Committee, the grant of conventional leave may be organised by a collective agreement for the employment of undertakings concluded with all the organisations representing the workers represented in the trade union delegation. In the absence of a trade union delegation, this can be regulated by the labour regulations. To date, no referrals have been made and therefore no collective labour agreement has been reached on this subject. Perhaps the problem is unknown, perhaps there are other reasons, but I am as positive as you with regard to the leave system. I therefore hope that in the future this possibility provided for in the law on feasible and manageable work will be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u86	Thank you for your answer, Minister. In my view, it will be necessary to provide for communication to businesses so that this law can be used as best as possible by parents who experience the need for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u87	Questions Nos 28266 and 28267 by Mr Hedebouw and 28267 by Mr Hedebouw Van Hees has been removed. Questions Nos 28307 and 28342 by Mrs Willaert are transformed into written questions. The same applies to Question No 28443 by Mrs Fonck. Question No 28465 by Mr Delizée is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u88	In the wake of the question raised earlier in connection with the restructuring plan at Ikea, other announcements have unfortunately been made along the same lines. On 17 January, a restructuring plan for NLMK Clabecq was announced by management. The number of jobs threatened amounts to 290, i.e. one in two workers, which is obviously enormous. Management claimed that its losses amounted to EUR 50 million, concluding that redundancies were inevitable. At the same time, the company intends to concentrate on one branch of the tool (i.e. the cutting of steel plates) and invest €18 million to this end. A strike movement was initiated in the wake. Minister, as a result of this announcement, you indicated to the House that you were going to meet with management and unions. You also stated that the SPF Emploi was prepared to support the process of social consultation initiated under the Renault law through a social conciliator. While it is true that the losses for NLMK Belgium are enormous, the situation is quite different for the other subsidiaries of the Lisin group (shareholder with Sogepa). The Lisin Group, whose holding is based in Luxembourg, is even a beneficiary. Moreover, it is questionable whether the investment of EUR 18 million mentioned will be sufficient to enable the Belgian company to raise its head. All transparency must be made – and this is not the case today – on all the montages that are now being discussed or discussed. The risk that the workers thus dismissed will find themselves in a situation of great precariousness is obviously real and is mobilising the whole of my political group. Minister, since the announcement of January 17, what follow-up has been given to the management of this matter by your firm or administration? What is the status of discussions between management, unions, the Employment FPS and your administration or firm? Are there any accompanying measures under this restructuring plan? Are there prospects for the company to take over, as mentioned in some press articles or in discussions with trade union representatives? What is the situation with regard to the scheme of unemployment with additional business (RCC) for workers in NLMK Belgium? Has a request been made? If so, are conversions envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u89	"Social bomb at NLMK Clabecq". This is the title of the joint press release to the CSC, the FGTB and the CGSLB, following the presentation of the industrial plan by the management of NLMK Clabecq (the former forges of Clabecq, one remembers this social fight that dates back about twenty years). The management confirmed the news: 290 jobs are to disappear in this company. That is almost 300 fewer jobs out of a total of 590, despite the profit of $1.45 billion that the Russian group NLMK received in 2017. The unions point to the disappearance of entire sections of production, the subcontracting of several services, maximum flexibility and versatility and the automation of certain tasks. They still believe that "the fate of the remaining staff is no more enviable than that of those who will be dismissed", so the conditions will be terrible for those who remain. For them, the management plans to save on the cost of work for more than EUR 3.5 million by various means: the revision of premiums, the freezing of wage indexation for three years, new rules on overtime, the denunciation of certain collective labour agreements or an action plan on absenteeism. These are some elements of the plan presented to NLMK workers: twelve-hour days; one week out of two 48 hours of work (these overtime will no longer be paid at 150%); an increase in average working time from 37 to 42 hours; a lunch break will no longer be paid; a reduction of up to 30% of quarterly premiums; no indexation for three years; no increase in wages for four years. Minister, a first meeting with your office at the end of January would have been cancelled. By whom? Why? Beyond the designation of a social conciliator, have you made contact with the management of NLMK? Did you insist that management take action to address workers' concerns? Does NLMK receive public aid? What is the nature of the aid? What are the amounts of this public aid? How many jobs have been created through these public subsidies under an open-ended contract? What measures can be taken by you and your regional colleagues in the event of attacks on employment in a non-deficit company that has received public aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u90	Minister, in Clabecq, NLMK announced the elimination of 290 jobs, half of the workers on the site. Again, it is a real blow to many families who, overnight, are plunged into uncertainty. Again, this decision seems to be guided by a desire to increase profits through various methods of optimisation. On Friday, the conciliation failed and the social conflict spread to the site of La Louvière. The workers have more than enough. While NLMK's parent company announces "a wonderful health" and "exceptional" financial performance with a turnover of $12 billion (20%), workers are sacrificed. It's indecent! It must be said that this is not an isolated case. Last month was particularly gloomy for employment. In January alone, the announcements of collective redundancies concerned no less than 4,354 workers. This is the worst month of January since October 2012 and the Ford Genk earthquake! Minister, it's time to say stop! At each collective dismissal, we ask you to do something to prevent so-called "students" dismissals. We have tabled texts, but every time you are dismissed, you remain passive. Will you finally move? Are you finally going to put in place a framework for employers to assume their responsibilities by prohibiting layoffs? Finally, you have drastically complicated access to pre-pensions so that today, more and more workers are being dismissed simply, without complementing their former employer. Employers are therefore not responsible; workers are subject to double penalties. I ask you to restore access to pre-pension before age 59 this year or at age 60 next year. This would save a few dozen jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u91	Colleagues, following the announcement of a restructuring at NMLK on 17 January, we contacted both management and the company's unions. On January 31, we were able to discuss with management. The same day's meeting with the unions was cancelled at their request. We are looking for a new date for this consultation. In the meantime, at the request of the company, a social conciliator has been appointed. The conciliation process was thus able to start. To this end, a meeting will be held tomorrow at the SPF to try to find a solution to the conflict. On 17 January, SA NLMK Clabecq announced to the works council its intention to resort to collective redundancies. This means that an information and consultation procedure with the unions begins for the employer, in accordance with CLC No. 24 of the CNT. It is only at the end of this procedure, and once the employer has notified the authorities concerned of its willingness to resort to collective redundancies, that accompanying measures can be taken. The creation of an employment unit with an outplacement procedure emerged at regional level, with FOREM, trade unions, the sectoral training fund and the employer as partners. With regard to the reform of the Renault law, I refer once again to the negotiations between the social partners, which are still under way. With regard to the scheme of unemployment with additional business, a company which announces a collective dismissal in 2019 must, at the end of the procedure, submit an application for recognition of a company under restructuring, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 3 May 2017 to the SPF Employment in order to lower, in its collective labour agreement, the age of access to the RCC to 59 years. For public investment and subsidies, my services do not have the necessary data. With regard to possible tax support, you can contact the relevant federal minister. As far as labour market support is concerned, I advise you to address the Walloon government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u92	Minister, thank you. I feel like the files follow suit. These are complicated, difficult files. Families are affected. These are dry job losses caused by unscrupulous groups. It is again a group, NLMK, which makes international profits and behaves unacceptably at home. What I have said in conclusion to the question of Ikea's restructuring plan is obviously valid here. I think that we will have to strengthen our legislative arsenal to protect workers more from this kind of tragedy. I think this is a priority task for this Parliament, in any case it is for our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u93	Minister, we take note. There will be a conciliation meeting tomorrow. It's Valentine's Day, but you know there's no great love story between the management and the workers of NLMK Clabecq. Every time, it's the same thing: you meet the management, you meet the unions. I mean, you haven't met them yet. The government does nothing; we will see the Prime Minister, who exclaims "jobs, jobs, jobs!" And yet, what about it? It is a group belonging to the 57th world fortune, Vladimir Lisin. It is richer than Lakshmi Mittal, which has also had devastating effects on employment in our country. What is troubling is that this group is largely a beneficiary. The Group's profits doubled between 2014 and 2017. In 2017, it made $1.45 billion in profit. There is obviously an accounting manipulation that allows to display losses on the Clabecq plant. All you have to do is look at the annual accounts. In the annual accounts of NLMK Clabecq, the costs of goods and wages remain constant, around 50 million euros per year. In four years, however, miscellaneous services and goods have increased from EUR 36 million to EUR 87 million. There, we obviously have a manipulation of transfer prices, a little like we found at Caterpillar, a well-known example. It has a tax purpose but it also makes it easier to pass on social plans. It is also an aspect that you should be concerned about at the level of Economic Affairs. When you intervene in a file, you should oppose this kind of thing to management. I'm not sure it's been done. In any case, this is the kind of technique that corporate management uses as an alibi to lay off.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u94	Mr Minister, I thank you for these points of answer which I will not fail to study as Walloon and Socialist. It must be acknowledged that since 2015, collective redundancies have affected no fewer than 30,461 workers. These statistics are truly tragic. Every time, workers are experiencing a real social tragedy, which our group shares. But, in the face of these, minister, you seem to remain relatively passive. Let me make it clear to you with respect. Minister, there's an emergency. In 2014, it was you who hardened access to pre-pensions, which are an alternative to pure and simple dismissals. Keeping the minimum age at 56 would have saved more social situations instead of the 59 or 60 years you mentioned. You're the one who closed the exit door for the workers. We're now asking you to reopen it. You are referring to proposals that you have submitted to the social partners. As we already know, these proposals are light, too light, and will not prevent collective redundancies. What we are asking you and what the workers are asking you, Mr. Minister, are strong measures to prohibit layoffs. A few weeks from the end of the legislature, it is high time to react.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u95	Minister, the voice of the street is currently being heard. Indeed, we have the yellow vests, the young vests - these students who demonstrate for the climate - and today, in particular, the green, red and blue vests of the general strike which is already a success at the union level. It is not every day, Minister, that a general strike is taking place in Belgium, as you know. On December 14, a day of action has already taken place. During this period, tens of thousands of workers demanded real wage increases, less pressure at work, a balance between work and private life, and measures for career ends. Despite three rounds of consultation with employers, it was clear that employers did not want to hear anything. They have left no room for real negotiation, hence today's general strike. First, minister, we are told that the law is clear, and that the law is law. She says it's 0.8%. Secondly, it must be noted that when a general strike occurs, some employers say, while the strike has not even taken place yet, that the law is ultimately not so absolute. The UCM boss now mentions 1.1%. We can see that this reality of social history is confirmed. Indeed, the law may be the law, when there is a social movement, it seems that the law can move. My questions stem from all of this, minister. Do you hear this alarm signal from workers and their trade union organisations, and their demands? Do you realize that it is not possible for workers today to settle for an increase in poverty of 0.8%, peanuts, while billions of profits and dividends exist in companies? Do you support workers and their organisations in their request to increase the wage margin? More and more workers are denouncing high pressure at work and increased flexibility. We are indeed seeing more and more workers who, pressed like lemons, get sick. Long-term diseases are on the rise, which is a problem. What steps are you going to take in this regard? Finally, workers rightly complain that work is becoming less and less feasible and that at the same time the possibilities for early retirement are becoming narrower or are being eliminated. They argue for the preservation of pre-pension possibilities. Are you ready to review your position on these different topics?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u96	Minister, I would like to talk more specifically about the distribution of the wealth envelope. This is something that also belongs to the social partners. They were working on this, but no agreement was reached by jumping off the social dialogue. I would like to ask a number of questions about this. Can the government spend the wealth envelope for 2019-2020 in current affairs, now that no agreement has been reached? Do you know where the social partners were hit? Which way did they go? How and to what do they intend to spend the wealth envelope? Is that the path to be followed when deciding on the use of the welfare envelope? When can a decision be taken? It is also important to know which benefits or benefits for which categories will be increased by what amount per month. What does it look like in concrete terms? Do you have a visual on what was possible? What direction do you want to take, after checking with the social partners? We know that it is difficult at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u97	Mr President, the announced national strike today seems to have been carried out on a broad scale. The stumbling block is the wage margin of 0.8 %. You have made a great deal of efforts over the last few days, Minister, to try to get the negotiations back on track. I asked you about your response to the national strike, but you gave it this afternoon. You have suggested that the prospects of the Plan Bureau might have an impact. Could that be an opening on wage margins? Could you clarify your statement this afternoon, so that we can see what this could mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u98	Mr. President, Minister, workers are angry today. They are angry; we understand and support them in this anger. Indeed, they are clearly deceived by the lack of agreement between employers and employees. In recent weeks, calls have been made to return to the negotiating table. That's the least I can do. We must be able to go much further, and other colleagues have also said so. It is difficult to negotiate when there is little, if any, to win. First of all at the legislative level, today we know the stifling straitjacket of the 0.8% margin. We know the law that was passed in 2017 and that undeniably limits this margin. We had discussions this morning and I hope that we will reach a conclusion in two weeks' time to perhaps come back to this 2017 law and leave more room for social consultation. I hope that we can move forward thanks to the will of the minister because we are in such a state of deadlock that everyone is losing. On the other hand, some more or less creative openings were made via the media to go further than this 0.8%, the result of the calculation determined. Beyond the calls to come back to the negotiating table, what do you intend to propose, with what types of margin and flexibility to expand the opportunity to negotiate and reunite the unions and employers around the table? For, in the present situation, we are in a real deadlock; the conditions for negotiating are absent and there is far too little margin. I would like to know your plan of action in this area and I hope that we can bring all the speakers back to the table with real proposals from the Minister of Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, I have been asked for a response, and some have listened very carefully to it, for which I am grateful. It is, of course, a very sad thing that we have had a national strike today. As I have already said, a national strike reflects the failure of social dialogue. As the strike has been followed up fairly well, it will cost our country approximately 929 million according to the calculations. I will try to answer the various questions you have asked. Firstly, Mrs Lanjri, I am presenting the situation of the welfare envelope. As far as the welfare envelope is concerned, you know that the Prime Minister sent a letter to the social partners asking for an opinion before 31 January. After the discussion and the interview that the Prime Minister, Maggie De Block and I had, it was agreed that we should give the social partners more time. We have decided to give the social partners more time and try to find a solution for the welfare envelope. This means that the social partners still have some time. Apparently, both employers and employees have underlined that they have an agreement on the distribution of 90% and that this distribution is not really very different from the previous distribution. You know that it is about EUR 354 million in 2019 and EUR 716 million in 2020. As the envelope is fixed, the increase in the various benefits will take place at the earliest in July. At that time, we still have enough time to implement a possible agreement between the social partners. The government has given the social partners time to reach an agreement. Sometimes there is a contradiction in terms. On the one hand, some parties and MEPs are in favour of giving social dialogue every opportunity, while on the other hand, they are taking initiatives to share the wealth envelope or amend the wage bill. However, the latter would make the consultation impossible. Maybe that will help one party, but it will completely block the other party. I do not understand very well the parties that have asked for Parliament to rule on the welfare envelope or the amendment of the pay standard law. This would mean that the agreement with the social partners can be ignored. It's a contradiction. Moreover, this is not just the 0.8% margin advanced with populism. It is true that it is not very large, but I am convinced that it will be possible, tomorrow, to organise once again a negotiation within the Group of Ten with the two banks, trade unions and employers, which can find a solution, if they are reasonable. Next to There are also the minimum wages, the end-of-life problems and other elements on the table on which an agreement can be reached. Mr Vercamer, you have listened very carefully, as always. The Planning Bureau will present new figures in the coming days and these figures, combined with information from the National Bank, will have an effect and determine whether the figure of 0,8 % is a definitive figure. However, I cannot anticipate this at this stage, because the figures are not yet officially known. Then we have to calculate the impact of those figures on the 0.8 % and we will see whether or not that is a definitive figure. However, it shows that everything must be looked at with great care. Criticizing the 1996 law, as we do, is not very intelligent even if it is a right, especially here in Parliament. The 1996 Act provides for automatic indexing. This is the first time that it has been included in a law. To criticize this is to ignore the fact that the wage standard provides a framework not only for large companies but also for small businesses, not only for strong sectors but also for weak sectors. I do not understand at all that some organisations and parties are calling for a totally free negotiation. That's what Mr. Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw. That's amazing! Who's gonna lose? These are workers in small and medium-sized enterprises and weak sectors! I take note of these reactions, which are not very wise. I hope that tomorrow we will be able to relaunch the negotiations. I hope that Parliament too will share the government's vision of giving every opportunity, in the coming days and weeks, to find a solution within the Group of Ten not only for the welfare envelope but also for the wage standard, minimum wages, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u100	I'm trying to follow your reasoning. You tell us that reminding us more than once that the 0.8% increase is equivalent to populism, and at the same time you acknowledge that this 0.8% indexation is rather low. In your opinion, it can only be mentioned once that an indexation of the order of 0.8% does not represent much, but, from the moment when it is said on three occasions, it becomes populism! I'm trying to understand! You tell us that this strike is an unfortunate affair, that it represents the failure of social consultation, and you add that amending the law of the wage standard means forgetting an agreement with the social partners. I think it is rather the opposite: to remove the wage standard is to allow real negotiation. There is no negotiation here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u101	That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u102	There is no negotiation. The unions already know that they will not be able to negotiate. I do not call that a negotiation. You say it's not smart to criticize the 1996 law because there will be no more wage indexation. Wage indexation dates back to the early 20th century and was widespread after the Second World War. It may be formalized in the 1996 Act, but the abolition of the wage standard does not necessarily imply the abolition of wage indexation. It's not very smart to say that. One aspect of one law can very well be removed and not another. What is at issue is not wage indexation, but the wage standard, i.e. the possibility of negotiating beyond this wage standard. You tell us that small sectors are losing, but that's not true. The absence of a wage standard does not mean that there can be no national and cross-sectoral bargaining between employers and unions. I don't see how the wage standard allows that. It's always possible, with or without a wage standard. What is crazy is that for 20 years this 1996 law was used to block wages because of the gap with neighbouring countries. When this gap was lifted, after 20 years of wage moderation, the rules of the game were changed, on the pretext that the historical gap had to be considered. This 1996 Act is clearly used to block wages. I agree with the statement of the president of the FGTB who said today that the bosses are social workers. Profits amount to 17 billion. The latest available years account for 12 billion dividends distributed. The most significant figure concerns the distribution of national income. Under this government, 2% went from the pockets of workers to the caisses des entreprises, or about 9 billion euros. You're planning a salary theft! There's overexploitation. These social movements are not close to stopping, minister. We're already talking about a women's strike for March 8th. Today, it was a tryout, but it's going to continue. We can predict it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u103	As you said, the social partners will have a little more time. So we'll have to wait and see. I hope, however, that a solution will be found as soon as possible, so that we can see which benefits can increase. I know that you took over the powers of Mrs Demir not so long ago, but in the government agreement we agreed that the lowest benefits should be raised above the poverty line. A number of things have already happened during this legislature. For example, the living wage has been increased by 165 euros per month. That's an awful lot. Something also happened for the lowest pensions and for benefits for people with disabilities, but there are still a lot of benefits that are below the poverty line. I hope that we can do something for those very vulnerable groups as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u104	Mr Minister, if I understand correctly, the final figures we expect from the Planning Bureau and the National Bank could lead to a change in the wage margin. The definitive fixing of this margin will therefore be done on the basis of the new final figures of the Planning Bureau and the National Bank. Thank you. I hope that this will open the way to relaunching the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1040x.u105	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, as this debate is important, I would like to clarify some points. First of all, we want to go back to the 2017 law, which reformed the 1996 law. We can conceive of modifying the latter in certain respects, because our aim is not to delete it. On the other hand, this is the case in 2017, as it has helped to reduce possible margins in order to reach agreement on more flexible wage standards. As for the strike, you who always say that you must be reasonable, I do not find your statements to be reasonable. Like the Prime Minister, you started by saying, "The cost of the strike is the same." Strikes are first and foremost a right. Of course, you did not say otherwise, but you talked about the cost of the strike by starting your intervention. Similarly, the Prime Minister said at noon, "I congratulate those who are going to work." In my view, these are not sensible words that can ease tensions - on the contrary. I'm sorry. In order to move forward, with the aim of improving the situation of workers, such exits should also be avoided. Today, it is a right that many people have seized. We must be able to hear him as political leaders. As for 0.8%, this is the current calculation. I understand that other fields are being negotiated. So much the better if we talk about well-being, the end of a career or a better balance between family and working life. These are the most important themes for us, ecologists. It is clear that today, what crystallizes is that factor. If we hadn't crystallized on the 0.8% standard, we wouldn't be here today. We must be able to recognize it and unblock the situation. We need to move on. We are also seeking to revise the minimum wage upwards. It's obvious. Workers in that country must also be able to benefit from the fruits of their work and productivity. I believe that this is not the case in the current context of the discussions. It is for this reason that we wish to review this standard and the 2017 law. For the rest, we can discuss, but these are our priorities.
