ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is meeting today, as a matter of law, under section 44 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today the Chamber meets automatically on the basis of Article 44 of the Constitution. I declare the legislative session 2019-2020 open. I declare the legislative session 2019-2020 open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u3	The next item is the nomination of the final Bureau. The next item is the appointment of the Permanent Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u4	1. The Bureau shall be composed of: - the President, - three Vice-Presidents, - and members of the Bureau. The Agency shall consist of: - the President, - the three Vice-Presidents, - and the Bureau members. 2. The Bureau shall be supplemented by: - former presidents, members of the House; - the presidents of the political groups; - one associate member per political group with fewer than 12 members and without a member of the Bureau referred to in point 1. The Office shall be supplemented by: - former Presidents, member of the Chamber; - the chairmen of the political groups; - an additional member per political group with fewer than 12 members who are not members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 1 member of the Office referred to. The President shall be appointed in accordance with rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The President shall be elected in accordance with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The Vice-Presidents and members of the Bureau shall be appointed by the Chamber in accordance with the first sentence of Rule 158(1) and on the proposal of the political groups, provided that the Presidency is taken into account for the assignment of these functions in accordance with the rule of proportional representation of political groups and that as many appointments are made as is necessary for each political group of at least 12 members to have at least one member on the Bureau." The Chamber shall appoint the Vice-Presidents and Bureau members in accordance with Rule 158 No. 1, first sentence, on a proposal from the political groups. The Presidency shall be included in the allocation of these functions according to the proportional representation of the political groups. In addition, as many members as are necessary to ensure that each political group with at least 12 members has at least one member of the Bureau."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u5	The only appointment to be made is that of the Speaker of the House. The only election to be held is that of the President of the Chamber. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u6	Mr President, I would like to suggest, at the discretion of my fellow Members, that we reconfirm the existing Bureau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u7	Are there any other suggestions? Are there any other observations? [[No]] Since there is only one candidate, there is no vote. As a result, Mr. Patrick Dewael was elected Speaker of the House. As only one candidate is nominated, no vote shall be taken. Consequently, Mr Patrick Dewael was elected President of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u8	The three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau should be appointed. The next item is the appointment of the three Vice-Presidents and the members of the Bureau. I have received the proposal to renew the Bureau in its current composition, and I propose that you consent to it. In view of the proposal to reconfirm the current composition of the Bureau, I propose that you agree. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u9	The Chamber is constituted. This will be made known to the King, the Senate and the community and regional parliaments. The Chamber has been declared lawful and complete. This will be notified to the King, to the Senate and to the community and regional parliaments. That Kammer ist zusammengestellt. Seine Majestät der König, der Senat sowie die Regional- und Gemeinschaftsparlamente became hiervon in Kentnis gesetzt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u10	Colleagues, I see that Minister None is yet present. Perhaps he had calculated that there would be a very extensive, complex vote. That didn't happen. Nevertheless, I must, of course, thank you for your confidence. Deputy Prime Minister De Croo may be able to get off the hook immediately, so we don't waste any time. As far as the questions for Minister De Croo are concerned, they are actually addressed to Mrs De Block. Mrs De Block has an international mission and is currently in Luxembourg. Minister De Croo will answer those questions. I have one more question to ask the Minister. Mr De Croo, there were four questions addressed to Mrs De Block and I think the PVDA-PTB Group had addressed a question on the same subject to Minister Muylle. Taking note that you are replying on behalf of Minister De Block, do you agree that Mrs Merckx's question on the same subject will also be answered by you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, it is the history of age-related macular degeneration (AMD) treatment that is an eye disease that can lead to blindness. It is a surreal story, and I have been asking Minister De Block about it for years. On the one hand, there is the Lucentis of the Novartis firm, whose injection amounts to 600 euros and which is registered for the treatment of this disease in Belgium. On the other hand, there is the Avastin of the Roche laboratory which, on the other hand, returns to about 40 euros per injection. It is effective but not registered for the treatment of this disease in Belgium. The cost difference between these two medicines represents several hundred million euros for social security. In the name of profitability, I think we can clearly say that it is a real monopoly that has been organised by these firms to ensure that all the space is given to the most expensive medicine. The evidence is that these firms have now been convicted of these practices, notably in France and Italy, by the competition authorities, with the approval of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Minister, you are responding instead of Minister De Block who yesterday said what she has never told me despite my various inquiries over the past few years. She said the price of these two drugs is similar. However, the official Lucentis prize in this morning's Belgian compendium is 686 euros. Minister, what about it? What is the price? And most importantly, since when? Other countries have made very clear provisions as early as 2014 so that the cheapest medicine, Avastin, can be administered for this disease, in this context and to avoid an extra cost. It was the proposal I had made to Minister De Block that always refused it. Why does she refuse it? The safety argument is not valid because several studies have shown the efficacy of Avastin but also the absence of side effects. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u12	It is a pity that the Minister is not here, because this is about credibility, Minister De Croo. I admire Mrs Fonck, because she already raised this dossier in January 2019. It's about two drugs from the companies Novartis and Roche. Everyone remembers Novartis, the firm of the Pia case. We're about a month away and we're on the same page. Roche and Novartis were sentenced in Italy to pay 182 million euros for market influence. However, I shall confine myself to my questions, Mr President. Test-Achats also lodged a complaint in response to the events in Italy at the time. After all, people were wondering whether there was no market influence here in our country either. The complaint was lodged with the Belgian Competition Authority and has been collecting dust for about five years. Why was a royal decision to regularize Avastin thrown in the wastebasket in 2015? Why did the FAGG send a circular to the ophthalmologists to discourage the use of Avastin? In a response to a parliamentary question from Ms Fonck in 2019, the Minister replied that Novartis had reduced the price of her medicine from over 900 euros to 645 euros per injection. However, Avastin costs ten times less: 50 to 70 euros per injection. Mr Minister, is it true that the medicine costs Lucentis 50 to 70 euros today, as the Minister stated in a tweet? This is a very important question because it deals with the credibility of your colleague. Is it true that the Minister had to make important concessions to Novartis under the so-called Article 81 system? This is a true cow business when it comes to the pricing of medicines. Can negotiations under Rule 81 for Mrs De Block's cabinet be conducted by a former top lobbyist of the pharmaceutical industry? The person concerned has been the main economist of pharma.be and UCB, the largest multinational in the pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u13	Minister, bevacizumab and ranibizumab are two practically the same molecules with similar effects and side effects. So we can assume that both medicines have similar reliable effects for patients with age blindness. More importantly, the two molecules also have a commercial link. In Italy, the two companies marketing these molecules have been condemned for price fixing. We assume that price agreements have also been made in Belgium, on the roof of the patient and on social security. Five hundred million euros would have been paid for the reimbursement of Lucentis. That's a lot of money, but if the patient needs it and it's an evidence-based drug, that can be explained. What I do not think can be explained is that the other medicine, which is actually the same, because similar in effect and side effects, has not applied for reimbursement, despite the fact that it has already been said by previous speakers that the ophthalmologists are asking for it and it is much cheaper. This is an important matter. It is about age blindness, which means that we will encounter it much more often in the future. I have five questions on this, Minister. How come the ophthalmologist's question hasn't been answered? How is it that the cheaper alternative has not been taken into account in the negotiations on Article 81? Do you think it is a normal practice for a commercial firm to decide for itself which medicine it applies for reimbursement, in other words the medicine on which it deserves the most? Is it indeed EUR 500 million? Finally, do you not find it strange that a doctor who prescribes a medicine does not know how much that costs in health insurance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u14	Minister, at the moment there are searches in progress in the pharmaceutical sector on market manipulation. This shows how important the questions we ask are. There are two medicines against age blindness and both are equally good, equally effective and equally safe, according to ophthalmologists, but one medicine costs between €50 and €70 and the other medicine costs €700. Which medicine is reimbursed by our Belgian government? Right: the most expensive medicine, not the cheapest. That is unbelievable and absurd! In the meantime, half a billion euros of taxpayers are already disappearing directly into the pockets of the pharmaceutical sector, just because in our country, unlike the practice in most other European countries, the most expensive medicine is being repaid and not the cheapest. I really don't understand that. That's Absurdistan, isn't it? For years, eye doctors have been saying that the cheapest drug works equally well and is equally safe. I certainly don't understand the explanation given by the Health Minister yesterday. She claimed that half a billion had not been lost at all; more, both medicines would cost the same amount. In fact, she had made a secret deal, as we have seen so many times, in order to obtain a discount on that most expensive medicine. Minister, the royal decision to repay the cheapest medicine has been ready for four years at the Minister's office, well prepared and well prepared by her administration. Why does it refuse to implement it, when many European countries do repay it? The Minister of Health stated that she has made a deal. How much discount has she been able to obtain on that most expensive medicine? In Parliament, it has already stated that the cheapest means costs EUR 70. If she now claims that both medicines are equally expensive, it would mean that she received a 90% discount from Novartis. I would like a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, in general, I would like to repeat the call that speaking time for an oral question is limited to two minutes, which makes the debate much more active. I think it is important that we try to respect that speaking time. This time also applies to the reply of the members of the government. However, in this case, since several questions need to be answered, I will allow Minister De Croo to use the prepared answer of Minister De Block. Minister De Croo agrees that Mrs Merckx's question should be added to this series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u16	Mr Minister, cheating on the breast cancer medication Femara, EUR 1.9 million for the syringe for Pia, market distortion with eye medication, these are three scandals and one company: Novartis. It's starting to get fabulous. What happened? Two farmareuzen, Novartis and Roche, have been working together for years to prevent cheaper medications for age blindness coming onto the market. I'm making a comparison between two countries. A complaint was lodged in Italy in 2014. People were interrogated, searched and documents confiscated. The firms were sentenced to a monster fine. In Belgium, Test-Achats also lodged a complaint. What happened? That complaint has been gathering dust for five years. What happened to that complaint since 2014? Why wasn't it treated? What will you do about it? My supplementary question is, of course, whether the searches that have been made since this morning should be placed in that context. Do they or do they not have to do with that exact complaint? I would also like to ask a few questions to the absent Minister De Block. How come today's cheap drug isn't being paid back, but the expensive one is? Why was the KB that had to provide the refund of the cheaper medicine not signed and executed since 2015? The minister said yesterday it wouldn't be safe. However, scientific literature contradicts this. It is administered in other countries. What exactly was the price tag on the case? It has been said that it cost EUR 500 million in social security. That amount has fallen right into the pockets of the pharmaceutical industry. Yesterday the Minister said that this would not be the case. Show me the money . What's the exact price? What are the exact figures in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u17	All speakers have spoken for three minutes or more. Next time, prepare. I can no longer tolerate it, otherwise we will be dealing with oral questions until 5 p.m. or 5.30 p.m. Minister De Croo has the floor. He will answer on behalf of Minister De Block. I am also convinced that this problem will continue to be pursued in committee, in the presence of the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u18	Mr President, Mrs De Block has asked me to give this answer. Certain questions can later be dealt with in more detail in committee. Mrs De Block understands many people's concerns about the prices of medicines. The fact that people now live longer and have a better quality of life is largely due to new technology and medicines. That, of course, puts the health budget under pressure. Nowadays, drugs respond to increasingly specific medical needs and target smaller patient populations. As a result, investment by firms results in ever-increasing prices. This implies that the sustainability of our system is threatened and that this system reaches its limits. With regard to reimbursement, the Minister is advised by the Committee on Medicinal Products. This opinion is based on five criteria, namely the therapeutic value, the price and the remuneration basis decided by the Minister of Economy, the importance of the speciality in medical practice, the budgetary impact and the relationship between insurance costs and therapeutic value. If a medicinal product still has clinical and/or budgetary uncertainties, a working group composed of the sickness funds, the RIZIV, academic experts of the CTG and a representative of my policy cell, the policy cell of the Minister of Budget and that of the Minister of Economy may negotiate an agreement. In this way, we can reduce the price to meet the uncertainties while providing temporary access to an innovative medicine. The fact that this system is based on the negotiation of agreements within a specialised working group not only makes it possible to lower prices, but also makes future developments more predictable, which makes it possible to better estimate expenditure for the following years. Let us not forget that Belgium is not the only country facing the problem of expensive medicines! All European countries have the same problem and work with conventions or so-called managed entry agreements to try to lower prices. So alone, we will never be able to solve this problem. Believe me, if there was a miracle solution, you think the ministers would have already applied it! That is why the Minister has been calling for years to work together to tackle the problem of high prices for medicines. To this end, a partnership BeNeLuxA was established in 2015, including by the Minister. Refund files are negotiated together and are also prepared together. We need to strengthen this cooperation. All reimbursement dossiers for innovative medicines must be prepared together so that we can identify. The Minister will also argue for this with her colleagues. The Minister notes that the popular compulsive solutions that sometimes circulate are not applied in other countries. It is tempting to launch them in the public debate, but they will therefore not give our patients better access to innovation. However, the Minister is in favour of thinking with stakeholders about ways to adapt our system in order not to compromise its sustainability. Mrs De Block is counting on the commitment of the companies involved and therefore on the commitment of industry. We have the opportunity to work together in a new government. During the last parliamentary term, there has been considerable savings on medicines. That's absolutely correct. When the Minister decides not to repay a medicine, she receives a lot of criticism. When the Minister decides to repay an innovative medicine, she is criticised for paying too much for it. For the minister, the patient is central. The patient must have access to quality and innovative care. The Minister therefore intends to pursue this policy, to do so strictly and correctly, and, of course, to give the next government the opportunity to carry out an evaluation of the policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u19	Colleagues, there's a lot of fuss. May I ask you to observe some silence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, the least we can say is that you have come to state great principles, but that you have neither closely nor by far dealt with this issue, the history of which is surreal and shocking, in two ways. First, Minister De Block refused to administer the cheapest drug, while Novartis and Roche were convicted of their illegal behaviour. She could have, she should have acted – she had everything in her hand –, as has been done in very concrete ways in other countries, to have a drug that is reasonable for social security and, above all, that is effective and safe for patients, as many studies show. Then, from the beginning, the minister refused to disclose the exact price. She made a little deal with Novartis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u21	Mrs Fonck, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u22	The minister refuses to be transparent about the content of this agreement, when – I repeat – the firms in question have been convicted. The lack of transparency on his part arouses mistrust and even suspicion. I only have one request: that it finally make this agreement public!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u23	I refer again to the speaking time. Mr Dedecker, set a good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u24	When it comes to me, I always keep it brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u25	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u26	It's true. While we are dealing with this now, this is obviously outside my two minutes' speaking time; at the end of the question, we can always talk longer. I can see that your party supports me, Mr President; that was a very long time ago. I'm gonna cut to the chase. Minister, I've been through a lot here in 20 years. For example, there was a health minister who bought 12.7 million doses of EUR 100 million against the Mexican flu, which was never in the country. What you're saying today, I've never seen it. Pretty round-the-pot-turned! You should have taken a Valium pill, so everyone would have gone to sleep. I asked specific questions. This is about the credibility of your fellow minister. Does the most expensive medicine cost between 50 and 70 euros, such as the cheapest? That's what she claimed in a tweet. Is that right or not? Or did the minister lie? That's incredibly important. You are talking about agreements between different countries, Article 81. The pharmaceutical companies play with this, because they do not want to know how much is reimbursed in Italy, in England and elsewhere. We are part of Europe and as a minister you should be able to do something about it. I asked the question whether the man negotiating for the cabinet is not a pusjenel of the pharmaceutical companies he has always worked for. I can't get an answer to that. Nor do I get an answer to the question as to why the KB has been in the closet for five years to regularize the cheapest drug and was then destroyed. I will not leave it at this, Minister. I will ask the Minister concerned the necessary questions myself, but today's answer is unworthy of a parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u27	However, I would like to emphasise that Minister De Croo must come here instead of Mrs De Block to give a prepared answer. The debate will undoubtedly continue in committee with the Minister responsible. Mrs. Fonck, the minister is on a mission abroad. She warned Parliament three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u28	Mr President, Minister, no matter who gives the answer, patients and healthcare providers will not be helped by this. My colleagues and I are looking forward to the November hearings on expensive and innovative medicines. I really hope that the Minister responsible will be there, because I have been a Member of Parliament for five months now and I have not been able to have a single debate with her. My group stands for evidence-based medicine and pay for performance, and we would like to stress that we want to continue to promote progress and developments in the medical sector in a responsible and critical way. Today, however, we note that the future pact is not working. It is absolutely not working, our country is not ready for the challenges in the medical sector. The drug shortage is huge. The BeNeLuxA Pact certainly does not go far enough; that is well known. The European study on the W.A.I.T. indicator, the accessibility indicator for orphan medicinal products, shows that our country is in the middle of this. That's not enough for our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u29	Mrs Depoorter, I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u30	Minister, I must join the previous speakers. You excelled in vagueness. You mentioned the advice of the CTG, the administration and tutti quantum. If these opinions are so important, why does the Minister leave a royal decision given by the same advisers four years and refuse to sign it? That is what this is about. Why do I not get an answer to my clear, concrete question as to what reduction it has stipulated, which would suddenly cost a medicine of 700 euros only 70 euros more? At least we're not leaving the file alone. We're not letting it go. Mrs Depraetere and I have called for a joint meeting of the Committees on Consumer Protection and Health. We want all the elements on the table. We will continue our struggle until we have all the elements. For us, it is important that people receive health care at the best price. That is the demand that we continue to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u31	Minister, the answer you gave is a huge joke for patients, specialists, Test Purchases and all the people who want answers to the questions we asked. We will resume the debate tomorrow with the minister trying to get answers. You did not repeat the arguments she put forward yesterday and you did not give any figures. The experts' opinions usually go to the advantage of medicines that are cheaper. Here, a cheaper medicine is not refunded and a more expensive medicine is refunded. That's absurd! Pharmaceutical companies do not recede in front of anything to increase their profit margins. It's time to put the red carpet away! At PTB, we have solutions. With our kiwi model, it is quite possible to lower the price of these medicines by putting them in competition to avoid this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I will raise the issue of speaking time tomorrow at the Conference of Presidents. We have to make agreements on this. There is a Rules of Procedure. I am not sitting here with an hourglass looking at five or ten seconds, but everyone here takes ample and sometimes even double their speaking time. I understand that there are many new colleagues in the Chamber and I said at the last sitting that I will be lenient, but it goes from bad to worse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u33	Minister, I come to ask you again about the prison in Saint-Gilles. As you know, the conditions of detention are constantly denounced by many international organisations such as the European Court of Human Rights or the United Nations. Two weeks ago, I asked you about the decision taken by the prison's management to restrict access to external services, resulting in serious consequences for prisoners and prison officers. In concrete terms, detainees are deprived of training, psychological follow-up and moral or religious assistance. In addition, visits by relatives are suspended, as are trips to the meadow. In other words, everything that contributes to the respect of prisoners' rights and their social reintegration and, in a way, to the prevention of recidivism has been limited. In committee, you assured me that the staff framework would be 100% filled and that the problem could therefore be solved in the short term. The International Prison Observatory noted yesterday that the proposed solution would in no way remedy the phenomenon of staff absenteeism. As you know, exactly two weeks ago, 82 officers were on sick leave due to exhaustion caused by their working conditions. In addition, many prison officers cannot take leave of absence because they need their salaries to support their families. Minister, you indicated that you have confidence in your administration to find a solution in the near future. However, it must be noted that a new decision has been taken, so that the detention regime will continue to be tightened until 15 October. Minister, how will the situation evolve after that date? How do you intend to respond to the judgment handed down by the Brussels Court of First Instance in early January? He asked you to react within six months to the overcrowding in Saint-Gilles. Are we going to have to wait for prison officers to be taken into custody by inmates, when neither of the two groups can be held responsible for this problem? It is the State that has a heavy responsibility in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, the prison in Saint-Gilles is a daily concern. We have managed to reduce prison overcrowding in the country by 1,500 prisoners since the beginning of the legislature, but Saint-Gilles had to absorb half of the prison in Forest, as a prison, because the prison in Forest no longer held the road as a secure building. I think Haren's prison will be over in 2021. I visited the works this week. We're building a prison for 1,100 people. For the prisoners of Saint-Gilles, I want to tell you first that we gave them instructions to give them a cell with access to the phone, which was not originally planned because we were in an intermediate situation. Then we will create in Saint-Gilles a space of privacy in 360 cells to strengthen privacy. The public procurement is under way. Finally, since last week, detainees have had daily access to the meadow, shower and telephone calls. The table visit is offered three days a week. But I confess, and I am not proud of it, that we have a serious problem with the climate in Saint-Gilles. We're doing everything we can to solve it, but it's not easy. I can only say it and confess it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u35	Minister, the measures you are announcing are, in fact, just dressings on a bereaved wound that is more important, and that requires much more structural solutions. Every time you are questioned on this issue, you answer us by brandishing the solution of Haren prison. It must be noted that this prison is still not there. Moreover, as soon as this prison is built, it will be overcrowded like our other prisons. In short, I call on you to review your copy and evaluate the measures you have taken, which have an effect on prison overcrowding. Indeed, whether you want it or not, it increased between 2016 and 2018. The prison in Saint-Gilles has increased from 740 to 860 prisoners. It is therefore not surprising that working and detention conditions are becoming unworthy. Routine business requires that you respect the law and court decisions, and that you manage crisis situations. The situation in Saint-Gilles prison is literally a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u36	Mr President, Minister, six months ago this Parliament decided that a minimum level of service would also be provided in Belgian prisons. Our group is very pleased with this because it has been working for years to do so. Finally, it would be ensured that conditions in Belgian prisons would also be dignified in the event of long strikes. Colleagues, don't get me wrong. The right to strike is there and must be there, but it is not absolute. For us, it ends when other rights are compromised. What do we see on the ground today? For almost two weeks there has been a strike in the prison of Antwerp. That's what came up last week. There's no contingency plan. In other words, nothing has changed on the ground after six months. It is clear that two weeks of showering and not receiving visitors will cause explosive situations. For the sake of clarity, this Parliament passed that law and its implementation, the emergency plan, had to be drawn up in cooperation with the trade unions. We note, however, that the trade unions refuse to sit around the table. Apparently they have not been present on any consultation committee and no attempt has been made to even discuss what this emergency plan should look like. This cannot be done by our group. So, Minister, I have the following questions. Can you give us an update on the implementation of that law? When will there be effective change on the ground? Is it true that no union will cooperate? Are there any sanctions against guards working against them? You referred to it last week, but I would like to ask you whether there is any need to change the statute in order to make the profession of jailer more attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u37	Mrs Gabriels, the most important element that we need to change to the statute of jailer or penitentiary officer is that we need to put them in better and more modern prisons. That is why we are now continuing to build a number of new prisons. I have already mentioned Haren, but this week the Council of Ministers also discussed the further implementation in Leopoldsburg, Vresse-sur-Semois and Verviers. You know that construction is also under way in Dendermonde and Antwerp. As far as your specific question is concerned, we shall continue with the social dialogue. Make no mistake, on 3 August the model plan for minimum services was published in the Belgian Official Journal. A later KB, with regard to the concrete outcome of the negotiations, is now with the Council of State, following two approvals by the Council of Ministers. My administration is currently negotiating a plan for these prisons per prison. If there is no agreement, it is legally stipulated that the Minister, your servant, can only sign that plan. This means that we hope to have such a plan for every prison in our country before the end of the year. So you shouldn't think this is in the fridge. On the contrary, it is progressing steadily, with respect for social dialogue. We're working as fast as we can. So we will achieve a minimum service, as I have always promised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u38	Minister, I am very pleased with your answer. You seem to be following this closely. We live in the rule of law and the laws that are passed here must also be implemented. It's not up to the union to stop it. Finally, I would like to say that we can understand that guards are dropping out because of lack of staff. However, this means that the police have to step in, who are understaffed themselves. The vacancies will be filled with difficulty there. It'll keep us busy and we'll get in trouble everywhere. So there is work to be done for the next federal government to lead all jobseekers into the labour market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u39	Mr President, Minister, fair taxation is a top issue. All those present in this hemisphere may argue for fairer taxes, but the only thing we know in concrete terms at the moment, in black and white, is that the next five years the families in Belgium will pay more taxes and the companies will pay less. There are big companies that get a call every now and then with good news. HSBC, one of the largest banking institutions in the world, received such a call. She got a settlement, which means she can no longer be prosecuted. What was she accused of or suspected of? From serious tax fraud, financial crime and large-scale money laundering. But she's not being prosecuted. The story is one of fair taxes and tax justice. One person has been convicted throughout this case since 2006, especially the whistleblower who has denounced the disgrace of the gigantic fraud. The Swiss Falciani was convicted of this and was sentenced to prison. We allow large companies to buy off their prosecutions and settle amicablely. Is it about a lot? We don't know that. Here too, confidentiality applies. Billions of fraud were committed, amounting to 5 or 6 billion, but the settlement amounts to a small EUR 300 million. I have some questions for the Minister. First of all, the buy-back law originated in current cases. Now is not the time, now that the whole hemisphere is in favour of fair taxation and most of the members of the government have entered into current cases, that Parliament, with the agreement of the Minister, will decide on the purchase of large-scale crime, because this is what this is about? Secondly, can the Committee on Justice look into the synthesis report on this matter? Everything is happening under the greatest secrecy, but I do not see why we should not be able to look at the synthesis report. Thirdly, in how many such serious tax frauds, of large-scale money laundering operations, of financial crime cases has it been condemned over the last five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u40	Mr Crombez, allow me to clarify that Parliament has full powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u41	I want to know the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u42	The Minister should not give his opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u43	But I can ask him anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u44	I'd like to make you a suggestion. Find a majority and get to work on the committees. The government is in current affairs and this is a Parliament with full powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u45	And I get to ask here what I want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u46	You're so angry today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u47	Yes, to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u48	You should not criticize me as chairman, nor do I criticize you as chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u49	Mr President, Mr Crombez, it is kind to ask for my approval. However, I believe that I answered this question about HSBC in committee a few weeks ago. Having said that, I explained last week what we tried to do during the previous parliamentary term with regard to the friendly settlement. Several important changes have been made, limiting the possibilities for the public prosecutor to make a friendly settlement, the latter of which was that the judge or in this case the board of directors should be required to approve the proportionality of the amicable settlement. This has happened here, as the Attorney General of Brussels has confirmed to me. In terms of both legality and proportionality, the Board has accepted this settlement. You know, I have said this on several occasions, that I cannot comment on judicial decisions. As far as your question on the number of settlements struck is concerned, last week, I confirmed in response to a question from a member of PVDA-PTB that the public will make the most recent figures on friendly solutions by the end of the year. It is not for me to make the synthesis report public. That's not with the executive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u50	I wouldn't applaud too much for that, colleagues from CD&V. Even in the previous legislature, a call for fair taxation was often made. The government keeps saying the same thing. Since the buy-back law came into force, there's just class justice. People who raise large-scale fraud get jail time. Big banks are allowed to buy off punishments. Almost 300 million, that's what the banks say, but it's only 0.25 percent of the company's market value. They are satisfied with this, because they know that they can commit large-scale fraud in Belgium without being punished. The strange thing is that the Constitutional Court said in 2016 that the extensive friendly settlements had to be stopped. However, at the time that the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office got hold of that file in the summer of 2017, the College of Attorney General decided to give it a different interpretation. The extended settlements were allowed again. As long as Parliament accepts this, class justice will be maintained. Ordinary people will continue to pay heavily for minor crimes. Large banks that evade taxes on a large scale will continue to go free or pay alms. Mr President, we can ask what we want and who we want. Members of Parliament have that right. Mr. Secretary, do you support the termination of the Purchasing Act and Class Justice? No? I therefore invite Parliament to vote on it shortly and to put an end to this injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u51	Mr Minister, scores, shootings, arsons and even a death list in Antwerp. Something happens in the criminal environment every month. All these facts have one common link, the link to the drug environment. This morning we were able to read that after the Kali team the Drug Support Team (DOT) is also emptying out. Eleven inspectors have indicated that they no longer want to work there because of internal conflicts. The chief of police has confirmed that and will appoint a mediator. There are five more inspectors. What else is there to intercede for? The co-operation between the drug teams of the local and federal police was flawed from the very beginning. Tensions were the result. An integrated and integrated approach, involving local and federal police cooperation, is necessary. The Power Plan is an example of that. Sharing information and working together are necessary. During a plenary session last March, we asked you to make an evaluation of the Kali team. I now also have questions in this regard, Minister. Firstly, can you explain the functioning of the Kali team, and the cooperation between the federal and local components of that team? Secondly, when will there be an evaluation of the Kali team and the Power Plan? Thirdly, is there going to be an overall plan of action and a clear strategy for combating organised crime in Belgium, or is that being postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u52	Mr Vandenput, you had addressed your question to Mr De Crem, but he is in Luxembourg like Mr De Block today. I can reassure you. The facts quoted in the media about the Drug Support Team of the local police area of Antwerp have no impact on the functioning of the Kaliteam, nor on the Stroomplan. After all, the drug support team involved is part of the district police, which is solely responsible for the community service. The emphasis is on combating street crime and street dealers. It consists of police officers in charge of primary care. As mentioned above, there is no connection to the Kaliteam, which operates under the Stroomplan and consists of researchers from the local police and investigators from the federal judicial police. The Stream Plan aims to tackle organised drug trafficking. The chief of police of the Antwerp police area has announced that the necessary measures have been taken to ensure the proper functioning of the district and the handling of the related crime phenomena. For the fight against organised crime, which is an absolute priority, I would like to refer you to the new Integrated Security Framework Paper, which we are preparing for a future government, as well as to the Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u53	Minister, I am glad to hear that the events in the local police area of Antwerp do not affect the Power Plan, which is indeed working well. I would argue in favour of an integrated security plan that could form part of the federal security plan, which will enter into force by the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u54	Mr Minister, I worked at the airport myself, so this matter is very close to my heart. I know all too well what it's like to lose your job from my experience at Sabena, when tens of thousands of workers lost their jobs, leaving tens of thousands of families in uncertainty. Now that is the case for the people of Thomas Cook, people who have been working for years for their company and are now being thrown out. There has been a debate on this for three weeks and questions are being asked about Thomas Cook. Every week, new bodies fall out of the closet. People relied on management, they trusted that the employer would ensure that they would still retain a job. At first 75 people lost their jobs, then 500 people and last week we heard that 5 million euros were transferred to England. This morning, we read in the press that the management, in order to save its own skin, has changed its liability in the statutes on the day before the bankruptcy to ensure that they are exempted and are only subject to limited liability under the new company law that you have implemented. Minister, in March 2019, you said the following about the new company law: "Bringers must dare to go for a decision, without compensation hanging over them like a sword of Damocles." For the workers there is therefore no certainty, but for the drivers. This morning, I called an employee who's been on duty for 25 years. He will now come into unemployment and receive a capped compensation of 12,000 euros. If there had been a restart, those people might have been able to keep their jobs or get a discharge. Can we cancel the Staff Regulations of 26 September and the transfer of EUR 5 million because it is a fraudulent act during a suspicious period? Do you agree that the new Corporate Code takes the side of management in this story, and that it allows management to opt for bankruptcy and thus avoid its responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Vindevoghel, I also find it extremely regrettable that Thomas Cook went bankrupt. So let me begin by expressing my deepest sympathy to the employees of Thomas Cook who are out of work today. If the new company law is applicable in this case, which I do not know, and I will therefore not address your question.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's not so little. Twelve million is a lot. I can also tell you that this limitation does not apply to a common minor error, to a serious error or to a deceptive intent or purpose to harm. So if this is about the deceptive transfer of funds, which I do not know about and on which I do not want to say anything, then it is not so difficult for the curators, whose task I do not wish to interfere with, not to have to take into account the limitation of liability to EUR 12.5 million. I do not dare to make statements about the accusations that are being made about cash pooling to Thomas Cook's daughter because I do not know exactly what it is about. Unfortunately, like so many cases, I have to leave that to the curators and to the corporate court. If it has come to deceptive acts or serious mistakes or common minor errors, then those people have my sympathy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I would like you to examine further whether that is the case. We believe that what has happened now should be investigated and that it should be examined whether this transfer has resulted in bankruptcy. It's kind of weird that this happened the night before the bankruptcy. So that didn't just happen. People are asking themselves a lot of questions. We want this to be investigated and you to take responsibility. The workers now feel that they are being stabbed in the back. The PVDA will always defend the employees and support them in their struggle for their job.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u57	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u58	Minister, despite the so-called Turkey deal, there have been significant increases in the number of migrants coming from Turkey almost exclusively through Greece into the EU during the course of this year than last year. For the first nine months of this year there are more than 45,000 people, representing an increase of 23% compared to the same period last year. A prognosis of the Greek Ministry of Migration expects an influx of another 25,000 immigrants over the next three months. Among other things, German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer warned about a new refugee crisis, which may be greater than that of 2015. This fear is reinforced by the recent threat of Turkish President Erdogan to open the gate to Europe to Syrian refugees, unless Ankara receives sufficient international support for the planned security zone in northern Syria, where the refugees will be resettled. That security zone or buffer zone is the current residence of the Kurds who took over that area when they fought against ISIS together with the international force. Turkey is about to invade northern Syria and is targeting the Syrian Kurds with that possible invasion. Minister, can we speak of a laxer action against illegal immigration into Greece by Turkey? Does the government know about this evolution? Does the government have any information in that regard? Can we speak of a failed Turkey deal? Is it true that additional funding is being considered at European level for Turkey? What is the government's position on Turkey's possible invasion of Syria, particularly the Kurds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u59	Mrs Samyn, there is currently a meeting at European level with all the ministers responsible for migration and asylum. I'll give you some figures from my fellow minster De Block. The EU-Turkey Declaration of 18 March 2016, which has been applied since 20 March 2016, has contributed significantly to the substantial reduction of the number of irregular entries into Greece, which is positive for the European Union as a whole, including for Belgium. While more than 850,000 irregular migrants entered Greece in 2015, we are still talking about 50,000 people in 2018. Even if that number increases by 23% in 2019, it remains very low compared to 2015. The EU-Turkey Declaration also ensured that more than 25,000 Syrian refugees have been resettled in the EU since 2016, including 570 in Belgium. A total of 1,908 irregular migrants were sent back from Greece to Turkey. The current migratory pressure on the Greek islands and the resulting humanitarian situation show that the correct application of the EU-Turkey declaration remains a challenge, both for Turkey and for the European Union. In general, however, the assessment of the implementation of the agreement is rather positive. There is indeed a meeting of the relevant European ministers in Luxembourg. A new evaluation for the EU could then be discussed in a committee. I repeat, in conclusion, that there has been a very significant improvement since the declaration was drawn up with Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u60	Minister, it has once again been proven that Turkey is not a loyal partner. Turkey is threatening to set fire again with neighbouring Iran, which is on strike, with a raid in northern Syria. With the so-called Turkey deal, Turkey has one leg in the EU. As a result of the laxer action of the Turkish government, there is an increasing overpopulation in the hotspots on the Greek islands. There is a new flow towards the European mainland. This not only facilitates illegal immigration, but also sends out a message of hope to venture the crossing and unnecessarily endanger human lives. I hope that the accession negotiations with a non-European and undemocratic country such as Turkey will be stopped once and for all. Turkey has nothing in common with Europe, neither geographically, nor historically, nor culturally, and therefore does not belong in the EU.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u61	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, every effort must be made to prevent a new war at the gates of Europe, and Turkish armies must be prevented from invading Syrian territory. It would be an act of course illegal under international law. This would be a perfectly illegitimate act, since no threat from the Syrian Kurds has ever weighed on Turkish territory. It would be above all a new bloodbath, an ethnic cleansing, since that is what we are promised, it would be a betrayal of our most loyal allies against the Islamic State, in this fight against the Islamic State. It would be a scandal at the gates of Europe. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, that would also have consequences for our own security. What will become of the thousands of jihadists detained by Kurds in northern Syria? I received news this morning that some women have already escaped from some of these camps. And in northern Syria, panic reigns, it is chaos, especially in these camps. I ask you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, that Europe should not be left with its arms again. I ask you, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs – given that we are a member of the Security Council – to quickly call for a meeting of the Security Council. To quickly demand an interposition force in northern Syria. Let Europe be there, with the United States, with the United Nations, with all those who wish to participate in an interposition force. You know that in particular the Kurds have proposed that mixed patrols – Turkish and American – patrol along the border. So I ask you again, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to do everything possible to stop a new bloodbath, chaos, betrayal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u62	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Foreign Minister, we are indeed extremely concerned about the possibility of a unilateral military operation by Turkey in north-western Syria, which would be coupled with the withdrawal of some American troops from the region. What do the US President's contradictory statements say about this? What do you think of the Turkish authorities' more constant willingness to resolve the issue in their own way, according to their interests, their security dilemmas, on the Turkish-Syrian border? Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, unilateral action would undermine the fragile stability of the region and could have serious humanitarian consequences that would threaten the safe and voluntary return of refugees to their region of origin. Such action would undermine our direct efforts on the ground alongside the Syrian democratic forces to fight terrorism in a sustainable manner, including at home in Belgium. It would undermine our efforts to return to normal life with respect for the rights of local people, including the Kurds, Turkmens, Yazidis and Arameans. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, will we call on Turkey to avoid this initiative that would run counter to the interests of the international coalition against Daesh? I would like to remind you that Turkey is part of this coalition. Do you think that the Geneva negotiations scheduled for the end of October are the right place to reach an agreement with Ankara? Since its territorial defeat, the terrorist organization, now clandestine, remains an important threat to our national security. What is currently, Minister, the density of political and military contacts within this coalition to continue to eradicate Daesh? Will this possible confrontation between the Turkish army and the Kurdish forces not promote the resurgence of Daesh and benefit the Syrian regime? Finally, the White House refers to the possibility of entrusting Turkey with the responsibility of the European fighters of the Islamic State organization. These jihadists and their families are currently being held by Kurds in the north-east of the country. We are talking about 12,000 terrorists and 70,000 members of their families. Is this an option to you or, on the contrary, should we not fear that this situation will quickly turn into an instrument of blackmail against Europeans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u63	Deputy Prime Minister, once again, the most powerful tweeter in the world has struck. One day, he tells us that he announces an American military withdrawal from north-eastern Syria by dishonestly dropping our allies against the battle against Daesh and another day or a few hours later, he says in his unrivalled and great wisdom, I quote: "I threaten with retaliation, with an atomic bomb, the Erdogan government if it goes beyond the limits." If we were at Aladdin's, I could say he brags like genius, but there's nothing to laugh at! But where are we going in this adventure? Until then, the United States had a president who played the role of stabilizer for a region, but here we are dealing with a provocative president. Secondly, the silence of the European Union is deafening. Where are we in this Europe that takes its destiny in its own hands and takes its future and that of the neighbouring regions in its own hands? Indeed, it is not only about European security but also about the security in Syria and the security of our Kurdish allies. Deputy Prime Minister, my questions are of two kinds. Firstly, in the face of the United States, which has now become the worst arsonists in world diplomatic history, does a European strategy finally point? If so, what is it in the fight against Daesh that is not finished, let us recall? Finally, since Belgium is a member of the UN Security Council, what are you going to defend as a position on behalf of the Belgian Government to avoid destabilization, to promote a concrete and lasting solution and to ensure that we help our Kurdish allies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u64	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my French-speaking colleagues have already explained the situation clearly, so I can confine myself to the questions. What is the state of play regarding the conflict in northern Syria? What position does our country take on this issue at European level? What initiatives does the EU intend to take in the short and long term to normalise the tensioned relations across northern Syria? What is the EU's ambition? What scenarios does our country take into account when it comes to the Belgian captured IS fighters? What initiatives are we going to take in this respect? What will our position be next weekend at the NATO conference in London?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u65	Mr Briers, you were exemplary at speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to reach a common position at European level. That is the only chance to have influence, in the Security Council but also in the coalition on the field in northeast Syria. So far we have always tried to do so, with some success. The impact of this European position is different. I fully share the concern expressed here. Indeed, two particularly dangerous echoes for the region and dramatic for security have come to us. The first, which has been confirmed today, is the announcement of preparations and groups of Turkish troops at the border, with the idea of a unilateral operation. This makes no sense and would be totally destabilizing for the region. Indeed, these are very important sources of potential conflicts, but also camps with large numbers of people, whether they are jihadists or their families. We know that since we have already carried out a first operation to return children to our country. The other destabilizing factor is the American attitude. The announcement of such important economic reactions, as I understand the tweets and statements of the American President, Mr. Lacroix, goes towards escalation and does not make much sense. Instead, I plead to support those who, in the US Congress, Republicans as Democrats, in fact, have sent a message of restraint. What is the situation today? What we want to do is, of course, to maintain a presence in north-eastern Syria. First of all, there is a question for the United States to stay. We must ask them to keep a number of troops in northeast Syria. At European level, there is also the presence of the British and the French in the same region. Perhaps we can do more with a number of partners at European level. I would just like to point out, Mr Dallemagne, that we can look at the stronger capabilities of presence. So far, the House of Representatives has hoped that there will be no presence on the ground, in any case Belgian troops. I believe that this is a debate that we must have at European level, but knowing what the limits of what we can do as Belgian partners are. Beyond that, I would still say that what we are trying to do now is to put pressure on Turkey above all – I must say so –. We will have a meeting of foreign ministers in Luxembourg on Monday. We will also see how to repeat what has already been done: to ask Turkey not to engage in this operation, but also to see how we can increase the pressure on our Turkish partners. We are also doing so in the United Nations Security Council. The Syrian file is constantly on the table. But you know the antagonisms between the permanent members. It is not obvious to have a meeting with concrete consequences. We will continue to try to do so, and certainly in our role, with regard to the humanitarian situation on the ground. I would like to reiterate, Mr President, that I fully share the concerns that have been expressed. Whether on a bilateral or a European level, we will continue to put pressure to prevent a Turkish operation from starting in the region, with the consequences it could have on the population and on camps; and then, also, try to convince our American colleagues to remain present, with European partners, in the same region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u67	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I hear the serious tone and the words you use. Indeed, the situation is extremely serious and worrying. I hear the steps you are taking at European level. You suggest that Europe could do more, which perhaps even Belgium could do more. Let us be aware that, for my group, we are prepared, in any case as part of an international force, as part of a European effort, to be present on the spot in order to be able to intervene in order to avoid a new war. This war would have dramatic consequences for our security. It would be a betrayal, which Europe could pay for a long time, in respect of loyal allies, of those who have done everything possible to prevent us from having further terrorist attacks on our territory. That's what's at stake, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs. I really count on you, on our diplomacy, for us in New York and Brussels to avoid this illegal, illegitimate war that would cause chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. Donald Trump's contradictory statements and the movements of troops on the Turkish-Syrian border prompt us to the utmost vigilance. In uncertainty, the Kurds, our allies in the fight against Daesh, speak of betrayal. Even in the United States, including in the Republican camp, there are voices to say that, I quote: "The abandonment of the Kurds would be a stain on the honour of America". Let us redouble our diplomatic efforts in order to preserve the honour of the countries of the coalition, of all those countries that are fighting the possible resurgence of the terrorists of the Islamic State
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u69	Minister, thank you for your answers. You made it clear. Belgium must, as it has always done, stand behind a Europe of defence that adheres to the defence of its allies against radicalism and against Daesh. I regret that mutism is the European trademark when we need a Europe that acts in an essential way in the debate. Finally, I would like to point out that in order to avoid a dramatic bloodbath in the region, we will also need a stronger commitment from our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am extremely afraid that the Turkish and Kurdish people, many of whom have relatives and friends in our country, are heading for a hellish war. It is up to us to do everything we can to counter that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u71	I would remind you of the agreement we made at the Conference of Presidents not to ask about the intentions of a government in current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u72	Mr President, Minister, last weekend we were able to take note of an unimportant and, in my view, well-founded demand for a possible extension of life for at least three of the seven nuclear power plants in this country. By the way, it was the French President of ENGIE who stole and repeated about the same thing. You replied that you want a minimum of political stability, and this within the framework of the necessary investments for the energy transition. Madam Minister, there is stability in energy, but a negative stability. I refer to the energy bill, which will not fall in Flanders. I also refer to the negative stability of supply. I am thinking here of the arm wrestling between the CREG and Elijah on the capacity problem. I would also like to make another point, Madam Secretary. You will have to negotiate with the Flemish Government very soon. I do not know if you sometimes listen to the Flemish radio or read the Flemish newspapers, but the figures of the Flemish climate ambitions are quite different from the federal ambitions. There is a reduction in CO2 emissions of less than 30% by 2030 and the Flemish government agreement now includes a reduction of at least 80 % by 2050. This is quite different from the climate neutrality that so much is being talked about here in this hemisphere. However, there is also hope, Madam Secretary. During the weekend we read your quote: "Every decision must be considered in order to ensure the security of supply of the country, the cost to consumers, the impact on the environment and compliance with international agreements." I have a feeling, Madam Secretary, that you are going to open the door and weigh it forward and against it. I hope you want to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new President of ENGIE Electrabel said this weekend that he wanted to extend three of the seven Belgian nuclear reactors by 20 years. Madam Minister, this is somewhat a "Belgian" story that comes back cyclically in this Parliament. I remember that I was 14 when the law on the release of nuclear energy passed in 2003. Today, I am 30 years old and I stand before you at this forum with the same question that arises: for or against the extension of nuclear power? This weekend, Mrs Marghem, in response to Johnny Thijs's comments, in response to ENGIE Electrabel's comments, you said that it would be up to the next government, the next majority, to take a decision on whether or not to extend nuclear power in Belgium. Mrs Marghem, I would like to remind you that it is indeed up to the federal government, your government, all the more so as it is in day-to-day business, to enforce the law that was passed and locked up years ago. It is important to state here that it is not because ENGIE Electrabel is a French multinational that it can break the Belgian legal framework. Absolutely not! I would therefore like to take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to make the point and all the clarity on this act of exit from nuclear power.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind you – as you said, but it must be borne in mind – that the 2003 law provides that we are leaving nuclear energy for the production of electricity in 2025 and that this government has confirmed this legal framework and is part of this legal framework. We extended Doel 1 and Doel 2 only until 2025. The previous government extended Tihange 1 only until 2025. And, in the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) that we are finalising to make it final to the European Commission, we have planned the release of nuclear power in 2025 for a period that covers this PNEC until 2030. So it's clear. That is why, under this government, we have developed the offshore in the North Sea and have Parliament vote on a capacity compensation mechanism to be able to replace the power generation capacity with nuclear power by 2025, since the exit is in 2025. When I speak of stability, it is obviously in relation to all the wishes outside the government – the current government in day-to-day affairs and the next – that must ensure decent prices for the consumer, the country's security of electricity supply and the fulfilment of our environmental commitments. Our framework, which I have just described to you, respected these three elements. The next government, when formed and supported by a new majority, will take a position on these issues. I hope that he will keep these three fundamental elements in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I would just like to talk about these three elements, namely affordability, sustainability and security of supply. I am convinced that in this country these three elements can only be ensured through the continuation of part of nuclear production. I'm convinced of that. I believe that there should be a pooling of forces between nuclear energy and investment in renewable energy. This is the only way to achieve realistic climate objectives. Mr President, do not forget that in the context of the energy transition, when fossil fuels are phased out, much more electricity will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u76	Mr Ravyts, may I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, it is important that we do not delay in this country any more. That is enough: we can no longer remain dependent on energy that belongs to the past and, therefore, on obsolete reactors. Elia's last report indicates, moreover, that their availability is only 48%, so that Belgium holds the second world record for the unavailability of nuclear reactors. Since this House, we must therefore send a very clear signal to all investors to commit funds to the energies of the future, green and safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u78	Mr Minister, the first proposal I tabled on arriving in Parliament is a text calling on the next government to support the return of night trains to Belgium. Indeed, the night train allows you to travel safely, rested, from downtown to downtown. It also saves a hotel night and enjoy the whole day. It's good for the traveller, but it's also important for our planet. Because the train, whether by night or by day, whether it is a TGV or a sleeper train, is always less polluting than the car or the plane. I imagine, Mr Minister, that this weekend you were as happy as I am to learn that the Austrian operator ÖBB was going to launch a Vienna-Brussels nightline as early as 2020. It's really good news, and it's not a surprise. Today, this operator has a real success story: 26 night train lines and an average occupancy rate of more than 60%. The positive reactions to this announcement are evidence of this. The night train responds to a genuine European popular demand. Here, as everywhere in the Union, citizen movements such as Back-on-Track have multiplied to demand the return of the night train. Mr Minister, a Vienna-Brussels line is good, but it must not stop there. There is a market and demand for more night trains. The night train is not reserved for holidays. In fact, every day ten planes depart from Brussels to reach Milan. Filling even one night train to Milan every day is in the order of the possible. We can't miss the potential of night trains. Just as the new Walloon government has done, the next federal government must make the night train its priority. The night train must become a real alternative to flying by air. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Do you support the proposal of the PS to reduce the price of train paths in order to encourage the return of night trains to Belgium? What other routes can be considered to support this sustainable mode of transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u79	Mrs Hanus, like you, I learned from the press and a tweet that the ÖBB railway operator intended to organise a night train link between Vienna and Brussels. In view of the climate priorities, I am of course in favour of this project. It comes to my mind that ÖBB has contacted SNCB to operate its trains on Belgian territory under the SNCB licence and has Solicité Infrabel to dispose of the furrows, if possible by 2020. This offer of long-distance night trains on a traditional network is complementary to that of high-speed trains, whose European grid is not yet very developed - even if the ICE and Thalys are circulating at home. For traditional long-distance lines, the night train obviously remains a very interesting solution. When I was a student, I travelled through Europe in such vehicles, which were abandoned for lack of success and passengers. However, I would point out that this night offer is a matter of international traffic, which is a completely liberalised market which cannot benefit from state subsidies. This is why this matter is exclusively the responsibility of the Board of Directors of SNCB, which has even received other requests - not necessarily in connection with night trains - in order to provide other European connections such as Brussels-Mons-Paris (offer submitted by the company Flix). Of course, I encourage SNCB to continue its search for partners in order to increase this night rail offer, which will be able to meet the demand of passengers at a time when climate awareness awakens them to move them from the car and aeronautical mode of transport to the rail mode. Moreover, we have already discussed this at the European Transport Council twice. Other decisions may need to be taken for short-distance air travel, so that the use of rail transport is further stimulated at long and medium distances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answers. I share your enthusiasm. Every evening, at the main train station in Vienna, on the 7 p.m. coup, we see the train billboard announcing departures to Rome, Milan, Zurich, Berlin, Warsaw, Zagreb. Soon we'll be able to see Brussels. We'd like to see this at home. We need to give back wings to night trains, which can replace the plane for a whole series of destinations. Support for night trains is imperative, but there is also a need to motivate behavioural change and create new and sustainable habits. This must start with young people, which is why the PS group wants every 18-year-old European to have an Interrail pass to travel by train throughout Europe, day and night.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u81	I congratulate you on your first intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u82	Minister, last Friday it was reported that three deaths occurred in the Netherlands due to a listeria contamination. It was also very soon known that ALDI took a number of meat products out of the shelves as a precaution. On Saturday Albert Heijn followed. Then there was a very strange announcement from the BFSA that it was not clear whether companies had received contaminated meat in Belgium. Those who look further, read that the Dutch Food and War Authority already established on 31 July a link between the company Offerman and a possible listeria contamination. What did the BFSA do with that communication? Did you know back then? What happened to the European reporting system? I dare to call it a food scandal again. We already had Veviba, we already had fipronil, now there's listeria. In two years' time, the BFSA reacted three times too slow and too late. How did the BFSA communicate to the population? What means of communication did it use? What was the BFSA's status in communication with the Netherlands? Too slow! Too late! But also, what information did the ministers have? What action have they taken? In my view too slow and too late, all the more in view of the fact that the internal audits at the BFSA specifically called in to do something about the communication. How is that possible? And what comes into the house of the intention to present a progress report on the state of affairs to Parliament every three months? Mr Minister, when were you aware of the listeria contamination? On July 31st or like us only Fridays? Secondly, how did the BFSA communicate? Were all possible channels used? Thirdly, has the European reporting system worked? If so, when? In July or only last Friday?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u83	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been outlined: no less than twenty people have been infected with listeria bacteria by eating fine meats in the Netherlands, three have died of them and one woman has miscarriage. That is, of course, dramatic news. This raises the question of whether it is still safe to eat such fine food, whether the bacteria can suddenly appear somewhere and what the consequences may be. Could the dramatic events not have been avoided and should not have been dealt with more quickly, all the more so because the Dutch company where the infection was detected had been monitored for months because there were problems? Even if it is a Dutch company, the situation also has an impact on Belgian companies and consumers. When they hear that the BFSA had still not been officially informed on 4 October, I am even more concerned. The BFSA has contacted itself through the European alert system, but that also proved not to be a success. To be honest, I find it really hallucinating how that can still be done. As a consumer, I am very concerned about this. I want to make it clear whether all the fine food that is still in the Belgian shelves can be safely consumed. There have been recall actions here by Albert Heijn, but they have gone sloppy and quite amateurish. First there is just a magazine in the shops that there is a recall, then it is expanded. As a consumer, we are entitled to clear, quick and correct information. Such recall actions should be better prepared and carried out. Finally, the BFSA tried to obtain information from the Dutch authorities, but that was not a success: it had to wait a long time. Have you contacted your Dutch colleague as competent minister? What was the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u84	Mr President, Minister, a listeria contamination in various meat products was detected last week in the Netherlands. These are prepackaged products from the Dutch company Offerman. According to the Dutch press, at least three people died in the Netherlands as a result of this contamination. In Belgium, the Aldi chain removed from the market on Friday the roast product cooked as a precautionary measure. The Dutch chain Albert Heijn has also decided to withdraw from the market and to remind consumers of cold meat products. In order to protect the health of Belgian consumers, the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (AFSCA) indicated on Friday that it had immediately contacted the Dutch authorities, through the European alert system RASFF, in order to receive, as soon as possible, information on possible deliveries of this undertaking to Belgium. According to the latest information available, AFSCA carries out the traceability exercise in order to ensure that all products from this firm have been withdrawn from the Belgian market. Mr Minister, although the problem is located in the Netherlands, consumer protection against the risk of listeria is obviously important given the dangers to health. How many checks are carried out each year by AFSCA in Belgium and what is the compliance rate of these checks? What measures have been taken by AFSCA since Friday? Does the Agency raise consumer awareness of practical measures to protect it, including the public at risk of pregnant women, young children and the elderly? Finally, do the Dutch authorities cooperate effectively with AFSCA? Are there any lessons to be learned for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u85	Mrs Creemers, Mrs Dierick, Mrs Taquin, consumer health protection is and remains a priority. Tomorrow, the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities will hold a thorough exchange of views on the subject, including with the BFSA. I would like to summarize the main elements which I will discuss in detail in committee tomorrow. I am in constant contact with the BFSA about the important issues. I believe that the BFSA is perfectly performing its mission and role in this regard. On 4 October 2019, the BFSA and myself were informed about ALDI's recall of meat-based products. Indeed, a source of listeria had been identified for the products in question, which come from the Netherlands and were made by a Dutch company. As stipulated in the procedure, the BFSA immediately communicated on Friday 4 October 2019 and Sunday 6 October 2019 in full transparency to advise and disseminate information to consumers. The agency also asked its Dutch counterpart, NVWA, to provide additional information as soon as possible to protect the health of the Belgian consumer. I sent that question to the Dutch Minister for Health by letter. To be clear, we have put pressure – and we continue to do so – on our Dutch friends so that they can transmit as soon as possible to the Agency, but also to Sciensano, all the information they have. This Sunday, following new information provided to us by the Netherlands, another recall was organised by the company Albert Heijn. Products sold by wholesalers Sligro and HANOS were also removed as a precautionary measure. Sciensano provided figures. Mr President, although this important information falls within the competence of my colleague Maggie De Block, I want to inform Parliament. In terms of listeriosis in Belgium, there were 83 cases in 2014, 78 in 2015, 104 in 2016, 74 in 2017 and 2018. As of 1 September, there were 48 cases. We can therefore see some stability. I should like to point out, as I would like to say, Mrs Taquin, that it is with intensity that our Federal Agency for Food Chain Security is carrying out the checks on listeria, which is a very dangerous problem. As many as 9,000 samples were collected annually by the AFSCA. The compliance rate is 99.2%. This is higher than in recent years. Together with the AFSCA, we continue to ensure that we obtain as much information as possible, as soon as possible, from our Dutch neighbours. And we continue to monitor the situation on an hourly basis with consumer protection as a priority and, as you have indicated, people at risk, namely the elderly and pregnant women. That's indispensable. We explained it very clearly through the AFSCA as part of the communications that could be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I learn from your reply that the procedure was followed, but it seems that it cannot protect us from three food scandals in two years' time. So it seems that we have learned nothing about traceability in terms of imports and exports. So we have learned nothing about where the products that may endanger our public health are located. As far as public health is concerned, we must not take any risks. Consumers have the right to know what is on their plate and to regain confidence in what they eat. If the procedures are not enough, we must reform them. I insist that the BFSA should not be under the authority of the Minister of Agriculture, but under the control of the Minister of Health, where it belongs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u87	Mr Minister, if three people and an unborn child die from a contamination of fine meats, that scares and worries us all. After all, people must be able to taste the food we have here with peace of mind. It's terrible what happened in the Netherlands. We absolutely must try to avoid such a thing. Thank you for the explanation of the number of checks, but I still have questions. Can you confirm that everything that is now in Belgian shops is effectively safe to consume? I would have liked to have a confirmation of that. I also have questions about the alert threshold. If people die from infection without exceeding the alert threshold, then I wonder whether that alert threshold is correct. I hope that we will examine at European level whether this is a good system for measuring. You do say that the BFSA has done well and that the procedures have been followed. However, the flow of information between the different countries needs to be improved. Surely it is not possible that the BFSA should be begging for information? That issue needs to be addressed at European level, and I am counting on you to put it on the agenda. What has happened now has given consumers confidence a serious dent. It will undoubtedly have an impact on the whole meat sector. Those who do abide by the rules are the victims of this. In any event, this discussion will continue in committee tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u88	Minister, thank you for your answers. They highlight the seriousness of services to protect the health of consumers, including the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u89	Mr President, Madam Minister, congratulations on your appointment. Nothing's more fun than giving gifts. That's always nice. And maybe that's even more fun when you have his father's bank card. Then it seems to me totally nice, then one can buy even bigger gifts. I am not sure, but I have the impression that that card went around yesterday at the Group of Ten, the consultation between employers and trade unions. I read today in De Tijd that one is close to an agreement and proposes to increase minimum wages by as much as 3.5 %. That is 2.4 % more than the agreed 1.1 %. These rising wage costs must, of course, be offset by targeted reductions in charges. That sounds fantastic. Anyone happy, one might say. However, we do not hear the Group of Ten, as usual, say where this government should tax or save to pay for it. In other words, the burden is distributed and passed on shamelessly to the taxpayer, without taking any responsibility for it. And also without taking into account the agreements made or any side effects of this proposal. And that in economically very challenging times. Madam Minister, can we expect anything more from our social partners? There are more than 140,000 vacancies today, many of which are for low-skilled people. It would be thought that this would be considered. That we should try to reach agreements to modernise our labour market. That one would think about limiting unemployment benefit over time, that there would be less resistance to a more flexible organisation of working time and tailor-made work. That's what one would think. That is what the Group of Ten should be doing, and that could really help the vulnerable group of low-skilled people. Madam Minister, I know we are in current affairs, but the next step is, of course, a government step. How will you deal with this? How do you respond to this? What message do you wish to give for the further negotiations of the Group of Ten?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u90	Mrs van Peel, as Minister for Employment, I have not been officially informed of an agreement between the social partners within the Group of Ten on the increase in minimum wages. My information is that the social partners within the Group of Ten will meet again next week in order to continue the discussion on the possible conclusion of an agreement on minimum wages. It is normal for the Chairman of the Group of Ten to inform the relevant Minister of the decision. Mrs van Peel, you may be disappointed, but I think it is advisable not to make any statements on this matter today as Minister of Work. I have also read what is in Time: 1.1 % from November plus 2.4 %, which will result in 3.5 % from April next year. I think it is advisable not to make any statements on this today in order to give the consultation every opportunity next week. I am sure that we will then be able to discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u91	Madam Minister, I would have expected you to send a message to the Group of Ten, because I think the social partners can use it. You're right there's still a week left. That is why I call on the Group of Ten to throw away the miters and stop the sintering-clay policy, because we are not waiting for that. Don't get me wrong, we are all naturally in favour of raising the lowest net wages, because that is a good goal. With a reduction in the burden, the job bonus, the Flemish government has just made a serious effort in this regard. However, the substantial increase in gross wage costs, as proposed by the Group of Ten, is something completely different, because that proposal hypotheizes the chances of employment for the most vulnerable groups in our labour market. Once again, I would like to call on the Group of Ten to consider the essentials: a labour market policy which can bring about a revival.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u92	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-08-55-plenair-ip008x.u93	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 17, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 17 October 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
