ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are going to talk about the financial inspectorate's audit report on the budgetary developments of the proposed consolidation of a large number of federal police services in the centre of Brussels. To this end, we welcome Minister Geens, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments for almost a year, and Mr. Vrijdaghs, Director General and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Régie des Bâtiments. We received the audit report electronically. In a few moments, I shall pass the floor to Mr Vrijdaghs and then to Mr Vrijdaghs for an introductory statement. I am pleased to welcome colleagues from the Finance Committee. Under the previous legislature, the Régie des Bâtiments was responsible for the latter. It is now assigned to the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. I must point out that the report will be provided by the services. So there's no need for a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u2	Mr President, first of all, let me congratulate you on your new jurisdiction over the Régie, and I welcome mine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not my intention today to mention the personal role of individual actors. I will not do that at any time. It's a file that's run a long time. I was far from a minister when the decisions on housing in the RAC were taken, starting in 2007. I did not become a minister until 2013, but at that time, in the capacity of Minister of Finance and as the guardian minister of the then Secretary of State, I fully agreed on two dossiers at the beginning of my mandate in the Council of Ministers concerning a budget increase for installation costs, which together amounted to EUR 8 million for those two dossiers in July and November 2013. As a result of the second meeting in 2013, on a proposal from the Minister for the Budget, the government decided to request an audit from the Inter-Federal Corps of the Treasury Inspectorate on budgetary developments regarding the police housing file in the RAC, the National Administrative Centre. The reasons for this were budget overruns. In budgetary jargon, the facts were fulfilled. At the end of April 2019, six years after the audit was ordered, we received the audit report from the chairman of the Interfederal Staff of the Treasury Inspectorate. The purpose of the audit was not to analyse the accuracy of the accounts and amounts invoiced or the technical appropriateness of the additional work. In order to fully understand the issue, it is important to see what has been decided over time by the Council of Ministers. I will then guide you in the recommendations made by the auditors, which the Régie has already partially implemented. They are addressed not only to the Régie but also to the police and the Budget, which fall under the jurisdiction of other ministers. I will only go back to the recommendations if they relate to the Régie des Bâtiments. First of all, the building that you all know, located near the tomb of the Unknown Soldier, was sold by the federal government in 2002, for a small sum. This has nothing to do with the file, but it must be kept in mind. The first decision of the Council of Ministers was taken on 24 April 2007. It was then decided that the WTC III should be filled in with new occupiers. The same was true for the WTC II, the Finance Tower and North Gate. It was stated that the judicial police and the DirCo of Brussels should move to the base of the WTC III because some police laboratories were already located there. The reason for this was that the lease for the IBM building, in which these police services were located, expired in 2010. This discussion immediately shows that the federal police prefer not to move to the WTC III building because, among other things, it does not have enough space and too few parking spaces. A little later, in August 2008, the Minister of the Interior and the Federal Police announced that the RAC building could offer a solution. This large period of time between 24 April 2007 and August 2008 can be explained by the elections and a long period of ongoing cases. It was not until the summer of 2008 that this dossier was brought back, which was initiated just before the 2007 elections. A second decision of the Council of Ministers dates from 23 January 2009. At that time it was decided to place other services in the WTC III since the police authorities had refused to do so. According to the report, a postponement of the decision would have led to a rent for the WTC III of some EUR 9.3 million. I would point this out because the preferences of an occupying government are called 'occupant', which is a somewhat strange, belligerent term, which often means that the Regie cannot immediately hire or occupy a good number of buildings. That's why I'm underlining the tenant thing. The Council of Ministers of 27 March 2009 responds to the request of the police and agrees to an alternative occupation of the WTC III building. The police were asking for a regrouping. Not only the DirCo and the DirJud, but also some other services wanted to centralize. The Council of Ministers examined whether that space question could be met. A market survey was proposed with three options in terms of surface area, namely 56.000 square meters, 29.000 square meters and 65,000 square meters. Between 29,000 and 65,000 square meters, there's still a big difference. In doing so, I would just like to indicate how varied the needs programme could be completed. The question then arose as to whether a market survey was sufficient. It is important to point out that, at that time, it was still thought that work could be rented without a public contract because it was only a matter of renting a building with first installation and that, according to the old case law, it was not necessarily necessary to organize a public contract. In addition, there were legal opinions to this effect. In the meantime, it had become clear, in the light of the case law of the European Court, that in any event there was a need to organise a public procurement – we can go back to this question, if necessary – for the lease as well as for the work of first installation. I now come to the Fourth Ministerial Council, on 17 December 2009, which decides to launch a public procurement procedure, as I said, in the form of a negotiated procedure with publication, by the book. As only one valid tender was finally submitted, namely that of the owner of the RAC, in order to lease his building, the Regie amends the procedure by imposing in the negotiations that the owner of the installation works must itself apply a procedure comparable to public procurement. So there are two procedures. The first for the hiring, for which there is only one valid candidate. The Regie then decided to ensure in the second and third stages that the owner of the installation works, which he will carry out before the building is hired, would follow a public procurement procedure, or a similar procedure. The Fifth Council of Ministers, of 15 December 2010, authorised the award of the public contract and the conclusion of a rental contract for 18 years for the RAC building and the implementation of the first establishment works, amounting to EUR 23 million. The Regie had failed to appoint a quality & quantity surveyor because the estimate for the assignment was too low, so it was decided to entrust that assignment to Widnell, the RAC project manager, appointed by the owner. The Sixth Council of Ministers, on 1 March 2012, agreed on the extension and therefore the rental of the entire building. I told you that there was an option of 65,000 m2 – it is further increased because it was a large building – to 78,000 m2. Gradually, needs are increasing and the initial occupancy program is expanded. At the same time, the same Council of Ministers – one is now in another government, that of Di Rupo and no longer Leterme – decides to increase the amount of first installation work from 23 million euros to 30 million euros. This was becoming very urgent at this time because there was no other alternative. In this context, the report speaks of an emergency self-created by the Régie and the police, since the IBM building, too small, could still have housed the police services there for six years, with an extension of the lease. This possibility of extending the lease was waived and another building was preferred. At the 7th Ministerial Council, on 19 July 2013, an increase in the first establishment budget was approved, again by what is called "fulfilled facts' in the budget jargon. These facts relate to works which were already in progress or whose preparation was so advanced that only a continuation of the works was possible. The establishment budget was about 6 million euros. The last Council of Ministers, on 22 November 2013, again approved a budget for facts for an amount of EUR 2.5 million. This brings the total cost of the first installation works to a sum of about €39 million. There are also two further decisions in the Michel government, namely the Council of Ministers of 5 February 2016 and the Council of Ministers of 16 December 2016 on the technical maintenance of the building. Initially, these works were estimated at EUR 4,840,000 and ultimately amounted to EUR 6,532,000. During that period, in 2016, a settlement will also be concluded for an amount of 202.292 euro, which is the amount owed by the RAC to the Belgian State, for example because of delays in the works. I turn to the findings of the audit, which have appeared useful in several respects. First of all, I will talk about the general findings. It follows from these that there was no fixed procedure at the time for the implementation of this type of large-scale project. Every time, we reinvented the world a little bit. In addition, the project was initiated in an emergency created from scratch and the division of labour between the Régie, the federal police and the owner was not clearly established. This is the second general observation. The audit states that the facts are due to a lack of staff within the Régie project team, and the lack of professionalism required to manage a project of this magnitude. The state would have found itself trapped in a negative spiral of monopoly and extreme urgency by this lack of staff and professionalism. The negotiation took place for a single building, meeting the criteria. Meanwhile, a competitor wanted this building, namely the European Commission. A negotiation with only one valid candidate and another competitor in the market cannot necessarily lead to the best price. However, the price, according to experts, is not too important. The third general observation was that the objectives of the project were not clear either from the outset. The principle of consolidation included a reversal, both in terms of market decisions or the sale of the building in 2002 and in terms of the strategy defined during the lease of the Crown Gardens. Gradually, the needs have been adapted. Special observations relating to the hiring are as follows: Firstly, a monopoly situation had in fact been created. With the Buildings Regie, the police's requests not to go to the WTC III and at the same time to involve new services in the Brussels regrouping led not only to the DirCo and the DirJud, who were in the IBM building, to a sense of obligation. The Regie has tried to adapt to the wishes of the police in the circumstances. This has led to an unfavourable negotiating position, all the more so because, as I said, the European Commission may have been interested in the building. I come to a second special observation: according to the audit, it is clear that it is a shared debt and a shared responsibility of the Regie and the federal police, which is due to an unclear division of roles and an unclear distribution of responsibilities. The needs programme was not clear at the outset and was not sufficiently developed. Thirdly, the audit also notes that the complexity and budgetary impact of the project were underestimated by the stakeholders. A third set of observations relates to the work of the first installation. The report notes a significant additional cost compared to the initial estimate of $23 million, which has become $30 million and after $39 million. The audit also mentioned a lack of transparency regarding the division of work between the owner's and the State's. The audit finally concluded that although the project was advanced as an emergency, it was not properly prepared and should not have been launched until the federal police and the Régie des Bâtiments had completed all the procedures. The audit found that the regulation on public procurement, in connection with projects involving leasing and major works, had not been sufficiently controlled. The audit comes to five recommendations: firstly, an integrated project management with a clear division of roles between the Regie and the customer; secondly, a strengthening of the follow-up of projects; thirdly, financial accountability; fourthly, formalisation of risk tolerance by a quantified approach explicitly included in the project's budget and, fifthly, the introduction of a global building policy of the Belgian State. The audit shall identify 10 risk areas against which all actors may take immediate action. In listing these measures, the audit sets out two priorities. The first priority is the reform of the Regie itself in its organisation and its operation, which I will call the back office after this, even though that may be a strange word. So it's about the internal kitchen of the Regie. The second priority is the integrated and professionalised management of large projects, the front office. As for the first priority, the internal organization and operation of the Régie, the latter has already taken many measures in recent years. In addition, when I became minister, I quickly took several initiatives to improve the operation of the Régie. First, we are working on a new project-based organization chart, which will allow staff members to be flexibly assigned from a team of technicians, depending on the projects to be carried out. Secondly, the proper functioning of an organizational chart requires staff. Currently, the Régie has the lowest number of employees in its history, 690 on a staff cadre of 967. This is by no means a consequence of savings. Rather, this is due to the fact that qualified personnel are very difficult to find. At the time of my arrival in the department, we had virtually not been able to recruit since 2015. Again this year, we have planned to perform 151 critical functions in order to avoid having understaffed teams in the near future that do not have sufficient expertise to support projects. Thirdly, recruitment must be speeded up. We have succeeded in getting Selor-certified officials to serve on the Regie to recruit. In this way, staff shortages can be better monitored and eliminated. Fourthly, a retain policy has been launched, because the Regie not only had problems with the influx. The Regie has a highly qualified workforce and as a result there was also a large outflow to other jobs by comparable employers, both from the private and public sectors. I am thinking, for example, of the Walloon Region and the Brussels real estate market. Fifthly, I had a number of breakfast meetings with random groups of staff who showed that there is quite a bit of sand in the engine in the form of useless, internal administrative tasks and procedures. That is why we are working on administrative simplification. Sixthly, all administrative and legal tasks associated with the launch of a construction or renovation project must be taken from the technical team so that they can focus on the technical aspects. This is why there will be a central purchasing service that is fully specialised in public procurement. All knowledge is brought together so that all award procedures, from the preparation and publication of the contract documents, the receipt of tenders and open negotiations, up to the award and award of the contract, can be treated in full. This purchasing service will start in October 2019 for all public contracts in Brussels above 30,000 euros. From 1 January 2020, this purchasing service will work for the whole country. Seventh, it is clear that for DBFM missions and important leasing files, the Régie needs to rely more on the formation of multidisciplinary negotiating teams, including technicians, real estate experts, financial and tax experts, in order to be at the negotiating table, as strong as private actors. The State must retain very specialized skills in order not to be managed itself by teams of outside consultants. The second priority is not the Régie as such, but the management of projects – the front office as I qualified it to make a little academic distinction. The audit recommends integrated and professional management of major projects. It is important that the relations with the Régie's clients be clearer, more detailed and regulated by the Customer Relations Manual. The Régie's by-law currently governs relations with the Régie's occupant services and clients. He would like to replace it with the Manual, which needs to be further developed and discussed at several levels. But the Régie wants above all to free its customers from all the practical troubles inherent in accommodation. I am convinced that the Régie must, in the future, guarantee the workplaces, which must be modern and fully equipped in sustainable buildings. This also includes maintenance. Leaving some maintenance work to the occupant and keeping others for the Régie makes no sense. It is necessary to avoid silly discussions between the tenant and the owner on who should do what, as far as the small maintenance is concerned. So a building management unit. In addition, a housing contract must be concluded between the Régie and the client, which includes clear and precise agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, we must introduce the principle of 'Who decides, pays'. The Treasury Inspectorate also says that. This means that a needs programme is being developed with the client that is registered in a contract. If, in the course of the hiring or construction process, those needs suddenly change in a negative budgetary sense, it is clear that the costs of this need should not be borne by the Regie but by the customer. That means responding. One cannot permanently decide to extend the needs of ongoing works. Thirdly, the new customer relations guide proposes that the finance inspections should work together as closely as possible. Both the Ministry of Finance of the occupying government and the inspection of the Regie itself will have to validate the needs programme from the outset, so that the total cost of ownership can be determined as accurately as possible and the financial interests of the State can be evaluated as accurately as possible. Fourthly, with regard to the front office, it is important to underline that security works, which often incur additional costs, in particular for the police building in the RAC, should be subject to a standard applicable to each of the types of clients. That is why I asked the Regie to start a working group with Justice, Police and other security partners in order to achieve uniform standards and procedures related to security. Not every court building, not every prison, not every police building needs to be secured according to the customer's wishes. This must be done in a uniform manner. Finally, the Front Office should also focus on drawing up a policy line on the dossiers submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval. Not that the Council of Ministers was not sufficiently known, there have been ten Councils of Ministers in this dossier, but it has to be done in a clear and transparent way so that the government can follow it as best as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that this audit has proved its worth. It is a long story that you have probably read with just as much attention as I have, from which many recommendations are to be drawn, recommendations that we must work quickly on. That's what the Regie's been doing for quite some time now. I am trying to help the chairman, Mr Fridayhs, as best I can because I think it is important for our public building park that we do not repeat this kind of experience in the future. This is an example of how it should not be done. Let us try to do better together in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for your comprehensive presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u4	Mr President, to take up some of the points that have been raised by the Deputy Prime Minister, let me address some important details of the issue as such, which originated in 2007. On the basis of the content of the audit report and some of the recommendations proposed by the Inspectorate of Finance, various actions have been taken by the management of the Régie des Bâtiments over the last ten years, some of which already meet with recommendations from the audit report of the Inspectorate of Finance. Some other actions are in progress today or are still to be taken. All the measures and processes currently being implemented within the Régie des Bâtiments which will undoubtedly meet several aspects of the recommendations made by the Inspectorate of Finance are included in this presentation. More details are also available in an action plan developed by our internal control unit. These actions, measures and processes allow and will allow us to meet, in whole or in part, several recommendations made by the Inspectorate of Finance in its audit report, while taking into account the current status of the Régie and its existing structure. However, prior to the measures and actions taken or to be taken, the Régie wishes to recall or clarify that the application of a public promotion contract for the rental of a building with a surface area of more than 5,000 m2 was, in the years 2007 and 2008, an innovative procedure for the Régie which did not, in the past, apply any such rules or publish a public contract for the pure rental of a building. The BELSPO project, approved at the Ministerial Council of 4 December 2009, a relocation project of the Science Policy PPS, and the Financers of Liège project, approved at the Ministerial Council of 16 February 2007, a centralisation project of the FPS Finance, were the two first examples in which the rules on public procurement applied to the hiring of a building, accompanied by the execution of the works necessary for the occupation's housing. The occupier is initially the client of the Government of the Buildings. Those two promotional assignments, which include the hiring and execution of the first installation works or installation works, were efficiently completed by the Government of the Buildings. The renewed operation process and the new type of specifications relating to promotional assignments have been significantly improved and adapted over the last ten years. It should also be recalled that such hiring is far from usual and that the Buildings Management rarely has to do with projects of this size. However, since the start of the RAC project, and without waiting for the recommendations of the Treasury Inspectorate, the Buildings Control has taken numerous actions to mitigate the risks raised by the Treasury Inspection, within the limits of its field of action and the Statute of the Buildings Control, as a parastatal of type A, placed under the authority of a Minister responsible for the Buildings Control. The various actions have been completed and implemented over the last ten years. Other measures are still in full development and will be implemented in the short term. In the context of the history of the CARs, as reflected in the audit report, the Finance Inspectorate refers to the past sale of the former administrative city of the state, which was then decommissioned, among other things as a result of the regionalization of a number of public services and competences. With regard to this sale, the elements included in the audit report relate to a decision long before the launch of the RAC project and can hardly be commented on by us since the decision to sell the building was taken by the federal government about twenty years ago. At the time, only the part of the Tour des Finances, sold in a separate lot, was to be taken for hire, after the purchaser had carried out asbestos removal and modernization work, in order to centralise the various departments of the SPF Finances spread over twenty-one sites in and around Brussels-Ville. There was no other request for other public services at that time. The need to centralize various administrative and operational services of the Federal Police in the city centre of Brussels near the courthouse did not exist at that time and had apparently never been mentioned at that time. As for the acquisition of the building in the years 2008 and 2009, while the federal police and its supervising minister were already referring to the RAC track in 2008, it was not in the government's intention to buy this type of real estate, knowing that three years earlier the government had decided to separate – for an amount of almost 600 million euros – public property taken up for rent for an average rental period of 14 years: the sale and lease back of public property called Fedimmo in 2006. It therefore seemed unthinkable and unthinkable to envisage any acquisition of a good sold ten years earlier. It should also be noted that in addition to the need to balance the government's budget, sales and lease back allowed the state to no longer have to invest in buildings occupied by the federal services and thus avoid an immediate expense associated with the renovation of these buildings. Prior to the analysis included in the report, we would also like to point out several elements and preliminary decisions of the Federal Police or the Minister of the Interior in charge of this department which have limited the scope of action of the Régie in its intentions to optimize the occupation of the real estate portfolio it manages on behalf of the State. In fact, two successive decisions of the federal police, one of which was validated by the Council of Ministers in 2007, did not make it possible to profit from the spaces already rented by the Régie. The unfavourable opinion of the federal police to move to unoccupied areas of the WTC III and its refusal to reasonably extend the lease of the IBM tower significantly disrupted the structure of the Régie des Bâtiments, as part of its real estate strategy, although not developed in the years 2007 to 2009 but sufficiently completed to rationalize empty or partially occupied spaces in existing rented buildings. As regards the intention of the federal police to regroup and centralise its administrative services and certain operational services in the centre of Brussels, the new approach to geographical implantation and the new will to regroup in the heart of Brussels was totally contrary to the previous requests of several years earlier, in 2004 and 2005, which consisted of housing numerous administrative departments in the vicinity of the three barracks, thus outside the city of Brussels, and almost on the outskirts of the Brussels Region. By the way, those federal police requests were translated into an inauguration of the buildings called Kroontuinen for a rental period of 18 years from 2005. It should be noted that the federal police's real estate strategy was substantially changed less than three years after the termination of the hiring, given the intention to regroup and centralise other federal police departments in the centre of Brussels, this time for security reasons and reasons of intervention speed. The argument of locating all departments in the vicinity of the three barracks was apparently no longer sufficient, given, among other things, the federal police's desire for centralisation, but also the abandonment of one of the three barracks, in particular the Crown Quarter. In 2008, the management of the federal police had its wish for a grouping of the various administrative and operational services in the centre of Brussels approved by the Treasury Inspectorate, which formed the basis of the file. The federal police and the Minister of the Interior have therefore asked the Government of the Buildings and its custody minister to look for a building in the centre of Brussels that met the needs and specificity defined by the relevant services of the federal police. Moreover, the federal police and the Minister of the Interior had already mentioned the RAC building since 2008, long before any government prospecting or public procurement was decided, let alone considered. By decision of 27 March 2009, the Council of Ministers authorized the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance with responsibility for the Régie des Bâtiments to entrust the Régie des Bâtiments with the task of examining the request of the Federal Police to centralise and consolidate a large part of its services in the centre of Brussels. The Council of Ministers authorised the Régie to regroup a large part of the police services in the centre of Brussels and analysed this possibility in order to present a proposal for regrouping at a forthcoming Council. As a first step, the choice was for a real estate exploration of the rental market, the purpose of which was to conclude a rental contract, and then to comply with the regulations on public contracts for the performance of the first installation works. This choice was confirmed and validated by a working group composed of representatives of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance in charge of the Régie, the police, the Régie and the Finance Inspectorates accredited to the two departments. Following this decision, the Régie des Bâtiments, in consultation with the Federal Police, carried out a consultation of the rental market by notice of contract of 29 June 2009, with a view to receiving candidates for the centralisation of the services concerned by 2013. This date is justified by the deadlines of two current leases for the police: the IBM Tower and the Atrium Park. The result of this exploration of the rental market was presented to the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2009. It considered it more appropriate, rightly, to entrust the Régie des Bâtiments with initiating a procedure negotiated with publicity, in accordance with the law on public contracts for the rental, financing and execution of development works. The Council of Ministers also requested that a proposal for the award of the contract be submitted to it for approval on 30 June 2010, less than six months after the Council's decision. All the bodies involved in this project were therefore well aware of the strict timetable for such a market. Furthermore, whether it was the prospecting of the rental market or the procedure negotiated with publicity, it was difficult if not impossible for the Régie des Bâtiments to contradict the specific criteria imposed by the federal police, since the latter referred to the need to meet these criteria. If they were not, it could not guarantee the safe and secure accommodation of its departments. As a reminder, the specific operational and technical criteria defined by the Federal Police were as follows: a single basic building, or a complex of up to two buildings, having a central position in Brussels, in the immediate vicinity of the judicial authorities located in Poelaert Square, away from the usual routes of gatherings and demonstrations. Access to public transport was also needed, particularly at one of the major stations in Brussels. For security reasons, preference would be given to a building with a large number of parking spaces, which could not be located below the base of the building. That is why the WTC III runway had been abandoned two years earlier. In parking lots, the ceiling height had to take into account, of course, the constraints of the federal police. The definition of the specific surface requirements necessary for the proper functioning of the Federal Police was left to the sole discretion of the future occupants of the building, including the DirCo and DirJud departments of the Federal Police. A first point of improvement would have been to have a neutral control body responsible for objectively analysing and criticising the needs defined by the Régie's customers, such as the safety standards to be met according to their core business. It is necessary to be able to entrust this task of monitoring needs to experts, specialists competent in the various specific subjects and relating to the operation of the activities of the Federal Police in particular. The specific needs imposed by the police should have been the subject of further critical analysis by a commission of experts specialized in this field in addition to the advice of the Inspectorate of Finance, whether accredited to the Federal Police or the Régie des Bâtiments. It should also be noted that this public procurement procedure decided in the Council of Ministers differed only from the previous procedure of real estate prospecting by the new time limit for making the building available, the only modified criterion for launching the public procurement. The criteria imposed by the federal police had not been reassessed, since the federal police had no intention of derogating from them for security reasons. As regards first installation work, competition and the award of contracts for different lots were orragnized by the lessor, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, by means of standard "public procurement" procedures, but did not correspond in all respects to the procedures applied by the public institutions. With regard to the rental price of the building in question and on the basis of various elements, including those put forward by the Government of the Buildings regarding the price, the Finance Inspectorate was reminded several times that the rental market price in 2009 is in no way comparable to the rental price set today. Moreover, as part of the audit, the Government of the Buildings itself indicated that the approved price of the project is in a high price range for a building of that size and with those characteristics, which are in no way comparable to other buildings. For several years, the Regie, and in particular the Directorate-General for Strategy and Real Estate Management, has had a database of rental prices in force on the market. This database is regularly updated in the light of trends and developments in the real estate market. A second point of improvement in project management had been that such a database had already been available at that time, so that it would have been possible to compare prices in so far as the buildings could be compared. As for the reason for the importance of the price, it should be recalled – as stipulated in the note approved by the Council of Ministers of 15 December 2010 – that the Régie des Bâtiments and its political supervision have been confronted, in spite of them, with competition with the European Commission, interested in the same RAC building. As mentioned in the note presented to the Council of Ministers, the Council's decision of 17 December 2009 to relaunch a new procedure and to exclude the results of market prospecting in 2009 required an extension of the deadlines, indirectly resulting in additional complications in the management of the case and the evolution of the negotiations. In the course of the proceedings, it appeared that another public service was also interested in the occupation of the only immovable in accordance with the procedure in force. The European Commission, which wanted the site to house its Research and Development division, had begun negotiations with the CAR owner in the second half of 2009 and had completed its financial and technical negotiations in early October 2010. This information was confirmed at a meeting on 28 October of the same year between the Vice-President of the European Commission and the Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. Although the European Commission found itself in a more advanced negotiating phase than the Régie, it required a legally binding offer from the owner before continuing and concluding its internal administrative and budgetary control procedure. Given that the CAR owner had committed itself to the Crown in its bid filed on July 13, 2010 for a period of six months, the CARs were not in a position to provide a binding bid to the Commission. In principle, therefore, the Commission had no choice but to wait until midnight on 9 January 2011, the end of the commitment period referred to above, before it could complete its file. The European Commission's competition and interest, therefore, severely limited the Régie's margin of manoeuvre to negotiate a competitive rent. In order to avoid an unfortunate and costly overbidding between the two public services which would ultimately have benefited only the owner, the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments proposed, at the meeting on 28 October 2010, that the latter would assist the European Commission in the search for a possible real estate solution meeting the required criteria. The European Commission's position was summarized as follows: "The RAC solution remains the Commission's preferred option. If the Belgian government withdraws or does not take a decision before the deadline of 9 January 2011, the European Commission will initiate the procedure to conclude as soon as possible a contract with the owner. If, on the other hand, the Belgian Government does not withdraw, the Commission could consider possible alternatives, provided that they are accompanied by certain compensations from the Belgian Government." There have been no compensations to date. In addition to this explanation of competition with the European Commission – which partly justifies a high range of RAC rent – it was also reminded on several occasions to the Finance Inspectorate by DG Strategy and Property Management of the Régie that the gross/net ratio of the building could not be regarded as unfavourable. Especially since at the time, the notions of square meter and primary area (PA) were still unknown and undefined. In this connection, a third point of improvement was the validation by the Council of Ministers, in June 2012, of the new standards of office occupancy from a qualitative and quantitative point of view, on the basis of a presentation by the Régie des Bâtiments. In order to avoid confusion between gross and net square metres, the Régie qualified the surfaces as primary area square metres – a useful area for the occupant's activity – but also quantified them by limiting the number of square metres per agent recorded in corrected full-time equivalents, i.e. 13.5 square metres PA per corrected full-time equivalent. This standard dating from June 2012 was lowered in July 2018 to 10.5 square meters PA per corrected full-time equivalent, following the application of the New Ways of Working rules plebiscite the dynamic use of workspaces and the development of a flexible, flexible working environment, allowing for rationalisation of occupied surfaces, resulting in significant savings in rental costs, but also in energy consumption costs. In reading the comments of the Inspectorate of Finance, the Régie wishes to point out that the federal police have always been involved in the decision-making process for the CAR project, whether it is within the ad hoc working group that many IWGs (Inter-cabinets Working Group) and decisions of the Council of Ministers. Contrary to the observation of the Inspectorate of Finance, it is inconceivable to think that the federal police were not systematically informed by the Régie of the decisions of the Council of Ministers concerning its plans. It did so sufficiently, including through regular and bilateral meetings between public institutions and strategic cells. In addition to the elements mentioned in the audit report and on the basis of the proposals collected internally from the agents of the Régie des Bâtiments responsible for the project, it appears that the negotiations on the rental price were conducted under special conditions, on the basis of specific criteria and in a complex political context given the competition with the European Commission. With regard to the validation of needs, the absence of the Desk system in 2007-2008 did not allow for the best possible structure of the definition of needs by the federal police at the Régie des Bâtiments. As for the approach of the project, the new matrix organization, Matrix light, as implemented since 2009 at the Régie des Bâtiments and as defined in the first management plan of the Régie, it was not yet operational at this stage of the management of the CARs. A fourth point of improvement, already applicable to date, would have been the introduction of all the different needs of the federal police, via the Desk system developed by the Régie des Bâtiments, by means of a definition of room by room of all these needs by the federal police, prior to the publication of the public procurement. The introduction of this procedure as well as the procedure for the standardization of premises within the framework of the new standards of office occupancy allowed the precise and complete definition of the needs of the clients of the Régie des Bâtiments prior to any publication of public procurement. The introduction of this procedure as well as the procedure for the standardization of premises within the framework of a new standard of office occupancy allowed the precise and complete definition of the needs of the clients of the Régie des Bâtiments, whether within the real estate portfolio of the State managed by the Régie or on the real estate market. The introduction of customer needs into the electronic Desk platform is currently mandatory in order to be able to take account and monitor customer requests for possible implementation in a programme or investment plan. The management of the RAC project, in accordance with the cartography of the trades defined in the first management plan of the Régie, and in particular the management of the projects in accordance with the principles of Matrix light currently applied for several years, would also have been a fifth point of improvement of the project, notably by the division of roles between the Directorate General Strategy and Property Management, which decides what is being done, and the Directorate General of Operational Services, on which depends in particular the pillar Immo which is responsible for carrying out the decision, and in particular that of promotion contracts, leases and first installation works. The distinction of roles and responsibilities would have allowed for double control of the procedure and management based on the four-eye rule, which is the case today. In addition, the Régie des Bâtiments will modify its organizational structure by creating, in the current state of its thinking, a general directorate in which will be located a sub-directorate Project Management which will define the contours of the major projects, make the programming of them and will contract a partnership with the clients concerned by these projects. The contract shall take over the time limits and the modalities of execution, including any cost apportionment. The goal is also to have a single manager responsible for the A-Z project. The lack of skilled and qualified staff for such promotional tasks has in no way facilitated optimal project management. Due to the shortage of qualified and skilled staff, the services of a specialised agency which worked independently of the owner, as envisaged by the Buildings Management for the control of the costs of the first installation works and the checking of the time of the quantities exported, a quality/quantity surveyor, had to be used. In the absence of time, that track could not be brought to a successful conclusion and the control of works borne by the Buildings Regie was entrusted to the office already responsible for the control of the owner's works, which is far from an optimal and objective situation, even though the performance of the control office was borne by the Buildings Regie. That type of supervision of the Buildings Directed by private and specialised experts in cost control applies to the management of certain major projects, but unfortunately does not apply systematically to all major projects. In order to cope with the shortage, the Buildings Management has started various recruitment procedures for staff specializing in this area: economic engineer in management or work inspector. People with this profile are poorly available on the labour market and the Buildings Management suffers from a certain level of competition with the private sector and certain public sectors, which have different tools of appeal to the public services, especially federal administrations. In addition to the above-mentioned points of improvement and the various analyses and recommendations contained in chapters two and three of the audit report, we can also make several other points of improvement already present at the Régie or to make concrete in order to reduce and control the risks encountered in the past for such lease or construction projects, regardless of their level of difficulty or degree of importance. While appreciating the constructive nature of the approach taken by the Inspectorate of Finance as well as the relevance of certain observations and recommendations made in the audit report, the management of the Régie has in recent years endeavoured to strengthen its internal procedures and structural organization in order to optimize its operation and address the shortcomings found in the past. With regard to the structure of the Régie and its organization, the value chain of the Régie currently applied can be summarized as follows: a decision-making power composed of two pillars. A pillar is responsible for the knowledge and orientation of needs – i.e., the Client Management Branch – and ensures that needs are defined, complete and will not be changed during the market. The second pillar focuses on knowledge of the real estate portfolio and the rental market – i.e., Real Estate Management – as well as strategic direction and the future – i.e., the Strategy. This Directorate-General for Strategy and Real Estate Management is ultimately responsible for responding to the demand and proposing a solution based on the elements available in the portfolio and those to be found elsewhere. In collaboration with operational services, decision-making power defines the projects to be implemented, plans over time for master plans, investment programmes, choosing the most appropriate approach to meet the various problems and needs. We now have a project structure based on a scenario analysis, different scripts that allow us to respond, with a business plan to the key, to the best option to choose according to the client's needs, as recognized by a specific instance to its operation. The Directorate-General of Operational Services, thus executing it, i.e. the management that is responsible for making the product sought available on the basis of the selected procedure, carries out the production activities that result in a product, whether wholly in-house or partly with the private – the famous DBFM formulas – the daily management activities such as leasing, management of leases and maintenance of buildings. The organisation of the Régie is based on a decision-making pole and an execution pole, which was not the case at the time when the structure was not yet implemented, since the reform only started to bear fruit in 2010. Various initiatives have also been taken within the decision-making centre to improve decision-making and have been designed to ensure that decision-making is based on facts and figures. Let me give you a few examples. We have a "desk" needs programming module that is an electronic platform, a mandatory pass for all our customers who submit a request. We also have a follow-up to perform a uniform measurement of the occupancy rate of the buildings according to the occupancy standard, which is called the Space management module. And we are finalizing the implementation of an IWMS (Integrated Workplace Management System) computer tool. It is an integrated management system for the working environment. It is a modern tool that will allow us to anticipate the movement not only of the maintenance of the buildings, but also of their reorientation or reassignment. We have a centralization of requests by clients, a structuring of regular information so that it is accessible to the end user. It is all the systems of data banks, comparative price data banks of the rental market that will also be gathered in this IWMS tool being implemented. We objected to market prices by acquiring a real property database containing market prices for real transactions. And we are increasingly optimising the areas we have and for which the State, through the Régie, is bound on the basis of long-term contracts. The structure of decision-making is based on principles some of which are already implemented: the assessment of the possibility in the existing portfolio, the analysis of the scenarios, the comparison of the current net values of the product and of each scenario and a multi-criteria analysis integrating the risk analysis. As a result of the CAR project and the problems encountered long before the audit report was submitted, the methodology on which major projects are structured has evolved significantly. This process now allows the Régie des Bâtiments to exercise its role as an expert and advisor. Indeed, the client completes his program of needs in the application. The Régie analyses and proposes improvements or corrections to the program to the client who takes them into account or not according to his or her own vision. It is therefore important to highlight the new role of the Client Management Branch in assessing client needs programs. These needs programs are then forwarded to the Finance Inspectorate accredited to the client for validation. The document sent therefore contains all the comments made by the Régie. And so it is with knowledge that the Finance Inspectorate validates the client's needs program. There is still a need to analyse the validity of the needs programmes and the relevance of specific requests made by the client. Prior to each start-up of a large project that always requires significant preparation time, there is a refresh of the needs program to ensure that between the decision to produce something and when a market is launched, some needs would not have evolved as a result of changes or improvements or changes in the service. In order for the Finance Inspectorate to make a better decision for the customer, other information is needed such as the cost of using the building. Today, more and more attempts are being made to integrate into the financial analysis of the scenarii what a building will cost not in terms of design or its provision, but also in terms of occupation and operation. This is important because the cost of infrastructure cannot be distinguished from operating costs. This is part of a set and it is important to guide the choice. In addition, DG Strategy and Property Management systematically monitors buildings in locations and areas where needs have been communicated. The process is based on the development of master plans and master plans defining and clarifying the strategic analysis of the chosen option using objective and measurable criteria. The need to generalise this contextualisation of decision-making is based on the analysis of the existing portfolio, the analysis of the structure of the local real estate market and the analysis of alternatives. The proposals for decisions are defined on the basis of a financial comparison of the developed scenarios. There is now a systematic request for an opinion from DG Strategy and Property Management before starting any public procurement procedure. The initial objective was to define a single approach to the allocation of financial and human resources to projects and initiatives taken or to be taken for the building. In 2017, DG Strategy and Property Management carried out a new consultation with operational services to update the charters of leased buildings in order to have a better mapping of all buildings. With regard to customer accountability, this is also reflected in the second RWOW Management Plan 2017-2020 (Régie Ways of Working), which, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, translates into several actions already undertaken or to be carried out in the near future. In the event of changes during construction, the allocation of the excess costs according to a protocol concluded on a site-by-site basis is envisaged. That's the principle of "who decides, pays". And when we get out of the standardized standards, as we defined them in our processes, the client's accountability is started. Several other tools exist today or will soon exist, such as the "Project Management Office" being implemented which should also allow the steering committee to be quickly warned about delays or budgets of large projects. Its planned implementation by the end of 2019 is therefore aimed at structuring and guiding the management of major operational and strategic projects, like all other projects managed by the Régie des Bâtiments. I could still continue on the total cost of ownership (TCO) that the Deputy Prime Minister mentioned earlier. There is still a whole series of measures that are part of the IT tools that we are putting in place. A summary table containing all these measures is available. I would like to stress one last point. We're talking about internal audits. I would just like to point out that the Internal Control Unit of the Régie des Bâtiments was established in 2012. In the past, there was no internal control in the Régie that was structured in a modern and procedural manner. The Internal Control Unit plays a leading role in the organisation of work, monitoring and development of the internal procedures necessary for the proper functioning of the services. The monitoring and evaluation of internal control enabled management to form an opinion on the quality of its control system. Internal control is directly dependent on the deputy head. The unit performs various functions: internal control, mastery and organisation, audit monitoring, risk officer, information security advice and archivist coaching. The Internal Control Unit is under the responsibility of the Internal Control Officer who is responsible for the management of the team as well as the replacement for the duties of security officer. Taking into account the various recommendations made in previous external and internal audits, the Internal Control Unit has planned various actions. The recommendations of the audit report form an integral part of the Internal Control Unit's action plan and will be followed by internal actions and delinquents identified in relation to the recommendations made. The deadlines within which the actions are and will be carried out by the Régie in order to meet the recommendations of the Inspectorate of Finance are also mentioned in this action plan which includes no less than fifty internal actions and measures in progress or to be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u5	On behalf of all, I thank the Minister and Mr Vrijdaghs for their presentations. I think we are facing an essential debate for our country: the issue of managing our real estate assets and major projects. I note that many Members are present, quite rightly because there are many issues at stake in this debate. For the course of the discussions, we first have a few questions that were introduced by Messrs. Bertels, Ravyts and Roggeman who are therefore ex officio registered. As far as I'm concerned, I had a question that I'm going to turn into a written question. It is Mrs Zanchetta and perhaps other colleagues who will speak for the PS group. I would like to ask everyone to intervene reasonably, so that we can have time for answers and replies. We should finish our meeting around 1 p.m. I therefore call on everyone to be responsible for managing speaking time in order to avoid long, not necessarily useful developments. In general, I don't like to be a police officer. I would prefer to appeal to everyone on this question of the length of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u6	Mr President, Minister, Mr Fridayhs, your explanation was a little too defensive for me, but I will go into that in a moment. My approach is financial in nature, I am a member of the Finance Committee. I also initially asked a question about this to the Minister for the Budget, she is a guardian minister for the inter-federal corps of finance inspectors. However, I have been referred to you and I hope you will be able to give an answer. It was written that there are no resources and procedures to manage large real estate projects efficiently, resulting in a waste of hundreds of millions of public money. A title in the newspaper was "Government messes with major construction projects." That reflects the tone, and it is annoying, and we as Members of Parliament have to intervene. We do not wish to waste public money and we must remedy it. The audit also pointed out that there were structural problems, that there should be an independent monitoring system for large construction projects. Mr Fridayhs, you implicitly said that this already exists. Minister, we must look to the future, and I agree with you on that and how we can improve it. However, it would have been interesting or interesting to have a contradictory debate here between the authors of the audit and the defences that have been listed here for more than an hour. That defence is good and does not pose a problem, but in the case of audits there is usually a contradictory debate. Do all achievements that have existed since 2010 or 2012 mitigate the problems raised in an audit report from 2019? It's about a seven-year period. That may be mistaken, but we would have liked to have heard that all the improvement processes, which take time, are not all sufficient to refute a clear and clear audit report, with clear recommendations on the issues that are flawed. The audit report teaches me two things, which was also implicitly referred to. It is essential for the federal government to have quality public services. There must be highly qualified staff capable of carrying out public tasks. We need to strengthen these public services. That is a clear message. The audit also indicates that there are capacity problems. However, it is clear that we have too little quality here in an essential public service. That is my first appeal, let us strengthen the quality of public services. Then we should not call on private agencies to check on us when these agencies sometimes have different interests in other files, in order to make matters worse. So let us keep the internal competence internal, also with the Executive Board of the Buildings. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the first message is that we must have quality public services. On the second point, I agree with the Minister. After all, the Minister said that we should do better together in the future. As for your intention to entrust global building management as a task to the Government of the Buildings, has there been any consultation within the federal government, for example in connection with this audit? In order to safeguard the financial interests of the public authorities, integrated project management must be ensured. I understand there's now a project management within the Buildings Regie. However, the concept of "integrated project management" in the audit is wider than just the Government of the Buildings, it means integrated at the level of the federal government. Has there been any consultation with your colleagues on this? For me, that goes beyond the manual on customer relations. For me, a manual on customer relations internally with the Government of the Buildings is not an integrated project management at the level of the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in mid-August I woke up with the press coverage of the RAC dossier. In your own typical terminology you called it "an example of how not to." I have indeed tabled two oral questions. Through the first, like Mr Bertels, I would like to know whether there has been any consultation with your colleagues. When talking about integrated project management, it is wider than the Buildings Management. This has perhaps been mentioned a little less here in the speech by you and Mr Fridayhs. Of course, like my colleague, I am very interested in the answer to the question as to the extent to which the implementation of all improvements is about to take place. I would like to quote from the audit report, page 9: "The improvements proposed in the audit report are designed to avoid the repetition of the difficulties identified, taking into account the developments that may have occurred in the various organisations concerned." That also came out in the press. That is not 100% clear to me. The issues that the Minister has listed, including the internal adjustments of the Regie which I will not repeat all of them, and the management of the projects or whatever the front office was called, the instructions for customer relations and so on, to what extent is this all about? Mr President, as a Member of Parliament, it is natural for me to be extremely fascinated by the Internal Control of the Buildings Control Action Plan. Can that be made available? Mr Fridays spoke about some 50 actions that are still going on, unless I am mistaken. A number of things still need to be worked out. Mr President, I come to my conclusion. We have to look to the future. I regret the waste of public money that has been certain. Our group also wants to look to the future and has a strong Government of the Buildings, which works efficiently. The report and the answers will certainly feed on further initiatives by Members of Parliament in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u8	Mr President, I too would like to thank both speakers, the Minister and Mr Fridayhs, for the explanatory statement. Apart from the value of your two versions of the facts, it is regrettable that there are no representatives of the Finance Inspectorate itself, with which I agree with Mr Bertels. Of course, it has been a complex and very extensive study, but more than anyone they have an insight into the situation. It would have been useful to hear all the nuances from their mouths and to be able to ask them questions directly. I'd be delighted to present it to you now. Minister, the painful audit report received by the government in April 2019 was not intended to be made public. The current debate might never have come to De Tijd without the leak. Mr. Secretary, why shouldn't the audit report be seen? Are there any other investigations of public bodies under your jurisdiction, which we, as legislators, are not allowed to see in our power of control over the government? The audit also took a lot of time. We've been working on the screening for six years, which is a hallucinating term. What's the reason for that? Within the Government of the Buildings, the final responsibility for the project has often shifted, which naturally increases the risks of human error, duplication of work, unnecessary work and revisions of agreements with promoters and contractors. What are the reasons for the frequent changes in file management? What conclusions are drawn from this for future and ongoing projects? The audit report concludes with two important areas of work for the future. This is, firstly, the re-negotiation of the lease after the end of the first nine years in 2022, which deserves particular attention and proper preparation and, secondly, the definition of a strategy for the period after the end of the lease entered into in 2031, given the increasing concentration of police forces in the RAC neighbourhood. Are these areas of work being taken into account? Have any steps been taken on this matter? Who, for example, will renegotiate the new lease? The audit report also contains several recommendations for the future functioning of the Regie. Minister, you have just listed several recommendations. You have also expressed your commitment to keep following them. At present, however, you are limited in your ability of custody minister to keep the necessary eyes open. In his last book, the Court of Auditors is quite destructive about the financial reporting of the Regie. Among other things, it talks about outdated accounting plans, incorrect valuations of assets and poor accounting. The financial reports were considered insufficient. They have therefore not been published in the Balance Sheet Centre. Minister, your mandate includes custody and supervision of the operation of the Buildings Regie. What tools do you have for this if the reports do not meet and are tied together with hooks and eyes? In addition to one-off screenings such as the aforementioned screening, you have no clue to exercise your supervision of the Regie. For the record, I do not doubt Mr Friday's good intentions. However, regardless of his intentions, it appears that there can be significant errors in the operation. How do you, as the custody minister, intend to regain control of the administration? How can you take control of the reins if they are simply not there? Several of the workpoints of course do not fall out of the sky. The government already decided on a proposal from your predecessor, Minister Jambon, to transform in spring 2018. This so-called redesign was intended to lead, among other things, to the reform of the Regie into a public limited company of public law. The planned timing was spring 2019. I am aware that this reform has not taken place. Mr. Secretary, why haven't you done that yet? When's that scheduled for? What is the state of the transformation office? According to the redesign, the Regie had to dispose of real estate in 2019. As far as I know, that didn't happen either. What's the reason for that? Will that still happen and if so, when? I have the same questions about the new reports from the cell PMO. What's with the delays? Are those reports still rolling out? The rollout of the redesign is clearly not on schedule. Is it a delay or a set-off? What's the reason for that? How much patience do we have until this implementation takes place?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u9	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy Head, let me begin by thanking you for coming to committee. This is in response to a request made by the Ecolo-Groen Group as soon as the report was leaked in the press. In our letter, we also requested that we be able to audit the inspectors who drafted the report. I hear today that other colleagues also want to do so. So I am officially reforming our request. Indeed, it is important to know the two points of view. In a second phase, it would also be important to hear the representatives of the Court of Auditors who regularly publish notebooks concerning the Régie des Bâtiments which are particularly interesting. These are formal requests that are of great interest in the matter before us. Having said that, I will try to go to the essentials, but you have given a lot of information, which is very good. In the context of parliamentary oversight, this report shows that the elements in the report are challenging in terms of project management, monitoring, ability to track large projects, and financial impact on the state budget. Over 18 years, we are talking about EUR 40 million in losses or in any case financial losses. It is very difficult for us to dig to know exactly what has happened in the last twenty years. Returning to this file in detail is extremely complex. But, as I said, there are very important and challenging things in this report for the politicians we are. What I am most concerned about is that in this report it is clearly stated that the observation which is made and which is the result of legal and financial analyses is still valid. In other words, the findings that were made in the context of the consolidation of services are still valid in 2019. That's what worries me the most when I analyze the file. I am thinking here – and this is specified – of the major complex projects involving both a lease and the development of specific premises adapted to the requirements of the occupation of the service. This is not the first time that we have seen each other in a parliamentary committee. During the last legislature, there was regular discussion with your predecessor, Mr. Geens, Minister Jambon, but also with Mr. Vrijdaghs and representatives of other services of the Régie des Bâtiments. Each time, the same evils were put forward. Personally, I have no difficulty in believing the intentions advanced. I don't sue anyone for intent. I'm just saying that at some point, we always point out the same difficulties. This leads us to believe that this issue is fundamental in terms of the functioning of our federal state and, above all, its housing stock. I come to a few very specific questions. Why did the Régie des Bâtiments not respond to the Finance Inspectorate? Several times in the report, the Inspectorate of Finance stated that it had asked the Régie for a formal response to the recommendations and analysis. They indicate black on white that this has not been done. I would like to know why this had not been done. Another element on which you did not comment, unless I made a mistake because a lot of things have been said, is the potential renegotiation in 2022 of the RAC building contract. Do you intend to renegotiate this contract which, in the opinion of the experts, has been in the very high range of rents? On several occasions, too, the Finance Inspectorate makes the connection with the plan to transform the previous minister, Jan Jambon, into a public law SA.We had hearings on this subject in committee during the previous legislature. Again, the Inspectorate of Finance considers that this is not a good idea for several reasons, in particular because of the decentralization and the divergence of interest between the Régie which would be in SA under public law and the SPFs. The Inspectorate also takes up the examples of France, Holland, Great Britain and Quebec where the building authorities do not operate according to public law SAs and operate very well. Minister, Deputy Head, what do you think of this very critical opinion on the proposed transformation into a public law SA? Is this project still "in the boxes"? Is this a long-term objective that remains valid? You talked about recruiting. It is discussed in each policy note on the Régie des Bâtiments. I understand that this is an important element, but what do you intend to do? Some profiles, which you mentioned, are not easy to recruit due to competition with other sectors, including the private sector. It is a fact that we share. What about the solutions you imagine? I have also tabled a series of oral questions on the Redesign Plan. I take the opportunity to put some of them down because they are directly related to the situation today and to the operation of the Régie des Bâtiments. They relate in particular to the 176th Cahier of the Court of Auditors of May 2019. The Court notes that the accounts from 2015 to 2017 were returned but could not be validated and that several inconsistencies are found in particular in terms of real estate valuation. Have you ever had an opportunity to answer the Court of Auditors? What's the status of the Redesign program? It was mentioned during the hearings at the time of the consideration of the previous government's bill presented by Minister Jambon. There was a private external consultant and a willingness not only to go to a public law SA but also to make a whole series of transformations. What is the status of this process? There was also talk of an internal transformation of the Office of the Régie des Bâtiments. According to the Court of Auditors and other sources, this transformation office would always exist with the external consultant who would or would not come. That's a question. Is the external consultant still there to lead the project? Where are we? Is this progressing? What is the status of the external consultant's contract because our belief remains that we, the federal government, have the internal tools to carry out this type of project? I am thinking of the Court of Auditors and a whole series of expertise that we have in different FPS. I will conclude with an important question in relation to the accounting system that will be adapted to the level of the Régie des Bâtiments. As has been said, the accounts have taken time to be tabled and, according to the Court of Auditors, a lot of inaccuracy remains. In any case, validations are not there yet. A new accounting system will be developed with the SPF BOSA. What's the situation? It will normally be implemented from 1 January 2020. Do you think you can meet this deadline? Do you have the impression that this will make a significant difference from the current situation, particularly in the quality of the accounts and annual reports that will be filed? At this stage, it must be noted that the Régie des Bâtiments is not in order, whether at the level of the annual accounts or of the valuation of its real estate stock, according to the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u10	I thank all the speakers for the conciseness of the interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u11	Mr President, we are not going to go back to the genesis of this issue. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the completeness and quality of this report, which already highlighted the importance of grouping the buildings together. What interests us is to learn from the past. In particular, we regret the budgetary overruns noted in this report, given the situation we are experiencing at the Régie des Bâtiments, and above all the government's lack of response to them. What has also been highlighted is the fact that the finance inspectors were not consulted by the board office at any time. This report shows us that no political decision has been taken to strengthen this administration, at the expense of the management of state assets, especially in the case of mega-projects as is the case today. Rather than pushing the administration forward, it is up to the political power to learn from this report and to make the necessary decisions. Let me conclude with this question: Minister, what is the status of the reform initiated by Minister Jambon?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u12	Minister, Mr Fridayhs, thank you for your response to the report that we have all heard, a report that was requested by the then government in 2013. She then asked for an investigation into this file in which clearly a number of things have gone wrong. Now, of course, it is important to learn from history and to do better in new projects and in dealing with new similar dossiers. The first question is whether such dossiers are currently in progress and how they are better dealt with. I think that's a logical question. In general, we can see that there is a tension between the Government of the Buildings as an administrator and client for the government building heritage, the contractor who will deliver and rent the building and the occupying government that has certain requirements or expectations. The principle has been put forward here a number of times that those who decide and make certain demands must also pay. It's often about extra work. It is important to make good agreements on this in advance. It is still unclear to me how this is agreed at the beginning. It is important, for example, that the cost of installation works is clear from the outset and that they are well defined, but in what way the three parties mentioned are not quite clear to me. Perhaps a little more explanation could be given. It is also not entirely clear how the rental price is being determined. Mr Roggeman has already referred to this, which is very important when we go to a renegotiation. I assume the police will stay there for a few more years. Renegotiation is included in the contract, I thought in 2022 or 2023. Is there any plan to prepare for this and play out the interests of the government sufficiently strongly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u13	Minister, I agree with the interesting questions that my colleagues have already asked. The audit report gives a clear picture of the progress of this dossier. I'm also glad to hear that the Buildings Regie has already learned lessons. If one reads the conclusions of the audit report and finds that the Buildings Regulation fails on the expertise and structured approach of the project, then one can only see this as a real wake-up call. I hope that sufficient additional measures will be taken so that the Buildings Regie offers added value in its task as a service provider for other government agencies in the real estate sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u14	Thank you for your statement, Minister, Mr Fridayhs. I would like to focus on the issue, because millions of taxpayers' money have been wasted and may well have entered a corruption circuit. This finding has not been sufficiently addressed here. You explain very well how the Government of the Buildings should function, while in the last ten years there have been not one, but several files. It's serious business. Since the fish is starting to stink at the head, I wonder if the previous competent ministers, Jambon and Reynders, were not involved in the whole matter. I have the impression that still not much has changed. The PVDA, and undoubtedly the Belgian people too, has little confidence that these criminal practices are a thing of the past. We therefore call for concrete steps to be taken to prevent the interference of the business world and finally to enable the Buildings to take independent decisions without having to serve financial and political interests. The Government of the Buildings must become a good and qualitative public service. Or is it perhaps a matter of unreliable businessmen like Frank Zweegers, one of the richest Dutch people, who, in addition to a cartload of companies, also owns the Finance Tower and is a fan of the Cayman Islands? What were these external influences? What were their motivations? This was also included in the report, page 23.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u15	If there are no more requests, I would like to raise a few points in my personal capacity. The starting point was this article in the newspaper L'Echo of August 17, which was a form of paving stone in the pond. Indeed, the titles of L'Echo and the other newspapers that followed talked about millions spent on this issue too much. We were talking a lot about failings. The articles were written on the basis of the report and were very intriguing. In their role as comptrollers of the government, Members of Parliament present today are eager to get answers to some questions about the content of this report. It speaks of disastrous management, malfunctions, violations of the law on public enterprises and amateurism in the management of certain cases. At the heart of the debate is also the political responsibility of the government and some ministers in charge of certain decisions. Ultimately, decisions are made, financial choices are made, and these have implications for case management. Beyond the particular case of the consolidation of the police services in Brussels, the general debate is as follows: how does our State manage its real estate assets and major projects and how should it do so in the future? I shall limit myself to five lessons to drawing from the recommendations contained in this report. You have given us concrete elements in the police service file in Brussels, but what I remember from the report is, at the level of decision-making, the need for a well-considered multi-annual investment planning, decisions that are based on consultation and study, and for which opinions are sought. It is not just a question of saying that we are going to build a prison in such a place and make an announcement, and then give the file to the Régie and tell her to manage. More thought is needed before any political decision can be taken. Secondly, there is a need for cross-cutting management. Responsibilities may be shared, but all parties involved must be involved, as must all opinions before the final decision is taken. It is always political, but it must be based on objective data and consideration of all possible consequences, while keeping in mind the general interest. Similarly, public resources must be managed sparingly, as this money comes from taxpayers' citizens. In short, I call for cross-cutting management. Secondly, it is a question of preventing conflicts of interest and ensuring transparency. The article in L'Echo of 17 August spoke of a judicial procedure, wondering whether criminal acts had been committed. Minister, can you tell us if it is still under way? If so, attention should be paid to the follow-up to that procedure. Indeed, we must prove to our fellow citizens that the procedures are being carried out in full transparency. I turn to the question of the resources allocated to the Régie des Bâtiments, which manages some 7.5 million square metres of federal-owned heritage. For all major projects, maintenance, rentals and related contracts, do you have sufficient resources or have they been reduced in recent years? Have staff with the required skills, both in administrative, legal, operational, technical, etc.- Is that what you're saying? There was also a discussion of computerization. Does it prove to be effective? Similarly, the report focuses on accounting. Is it efficient enough to fulfill the missions assigned to the Régie? Finally, I come to the public management of all this heritage of the State. In watermark, it is clear that there was a desire to privatize certain missions. The intention of the Régie des Bâtiments to become a public limited company under public law, as was the concept of redesign, which was reflected in the policy statement of the previous government. These are political choices. My group and I believe that the Régie des Bâtiments must be a public tool equipped with the necessary means that is effective in managing all this heritage in an optimal manner, with public control over the management of records. We want these projects and tools to be implemented in the interest of public finances, that is, those of all citizens of our country. I turn to the minister for some answers and reactions to these various interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u16	We communicated the auditor's report to the Council of Ministers on 30 August. There was a first exchange of information at the level of the DAB, heads of cabinets and ministers. As has been pointed out by most of you, we are hampered in some changes by current affairs, for example the enforcement of the SA under public law – a decision in principle taken by the previous government –, especially in the context of transformation. Even before this report was communicated to the Minister and the government, we tried to ensure that such situations did not happen again. In my introduction, I tried to highlight how the Régie and its appropriate minister intended to respond to most of the recommendations. I don't think anyone can blame us for letting things go. In any case, that was not our intention. Several of you have asked me what progress has been made. It is difficult for me to repeat everything I have said, but if you read my introduction again, you will see that I have tried to indicate where we stand. For example, the central purchasing service, which now succeeds the Brussels award procedures above EUR 30 000, will do so for the whole of the empire from 1 January 2020. The manual client relationships are now being developed. Once there is, it will require a radical change in the relationship between the Regie and its customers. I have heard many of you ask about integrated management and what exactly will happen. Well, as I explained very clearly, it is the intention that every project should be fully monitored, from the conception in the mother's womb to the finalization and also afterwards, once the building has been put into operation, by the Regie. The Regie will then take all practical care of it on the basis of a housing contract it concludes, both with regard to a new building and with regard to a rented building. Once that contract exists, she will take care of all the maintenance. If some changes are requested by the so-called occupying government which were initially not included in the needs programme, the costs will be borne by that occupying government. That's what we're talking about by responding. That is what I understand under integrated management. The Regie takes full responsibility for the project from the beginning to the end, both the construction and the hiring and operation of the building. It will also be responsible for maintenance, all under a contract concluded with the service concerned. We baptized that provisional "housing contract." Several people among you are talking about recruitment. We have also discussed this, and Mr Fridayhs will also take the floor. I have told you that we have attracted 151 people for this year and we are still attracting 151 people at the moment. I have also said that with officials certified by Selor, who are allowed to work at the Regie, we have taken recruitment in order to be able to recruit engineers, technical engineers, lawyers and all kinds of other qualified staff more quickly for such typical work. That's what happened. This means that we are gradually re-growing into a framework that is around 950 staff. You should also see that the government has not only a financial problem or a saving problem, but also an organisational problem. The underutilisation of human resources in a number of departments is high. That's good for the budget. In the jargon, we're talking about the subut. The sub-ut is the dream of every budget minister since always because it is an automatic economy without any need to do anything. But the aim is, of course, that a department is so well organized that it can be able to use these means. I discovered this problem, first of all, in the area of justice, but remarkable progress has been made and 95 per cent of these resources are now being used. For the Régie, there is still much to do. But, for example, for the staff, we have evolved well this year. Many of you have also asked me about the nv of public law and the transformation in this area. This is a very interesting issue. I have spoken extensively with the consultants on several occasions, both the organisation and the legal consultants on that project. This means that this is not still at all and we expect the legal part of the preparatory study to be completed in the near future. I do not think we can make this decision in current cases, although I can prepare them. The decision itself will have to be taken by the next government. An important question is therefore what one expects more from the nv of public law than what already exists at present. Where is this new NSA of public law going to make the difference in the event of failure in the organisation, as it has already done? You will have read that the auditors in their summary have indicated that the established failure demonstrates that the NSA of public law is not the pass-partout key that will solve all problems. As a lawyer, somewhat specialised in the organisation of groups, companies, associations and so on, I would also like to point out that the government and Parliament must be aware of the fact that a nv of public law is only a name, at best a rug, which can be filled in such a way as to achieve certain objectives. A nv of public law does not automatically open certain doors. It is very important to acknowledge that. If you look at the existing Belgian public limited liability companies of public law, you will know that it is not a clear notion. Proximus, bpost and SNCB are, for example, NSAs of public law. Some are listed, others hardly differ from a direction, if I may use that word. So the question arises as to how this nv of public law is to be completed. At first sight, I see two major advantages that a nv of public law can have. I will never describe an SA as public law as privatization in itself. This terminology, "privatization", is also confusing. What is privatization? In my opinion, having read what my predecessor and others have thought in the context of the redesignation of this project, the aim is not to transfer ownership of the Régie des Bâtiments partly to the private sector. Anyway, that's not what I understand. But that is what I understand by "privatization": that an industrial operator, a large real estate group or the stock exchange should take over a large part of the shares. That's not what I understand. Of course, in the long run, it's always possible. Once you start with an SA, it is never excluded to privatize more and go from 100% to 50%, to 75, to 25. You know all these movements that our public law societies have made over time. Two advantages in my opinion: greater autonomy of management. This means that the current steering committee, with which I meet each month, would be a management committee of a corporation and would no longer meet with the minister. From now on, it would be controlled by a board of directors, who, knowing our country - like all the other countries in the world, we are not so different - would obviously be politically weighted. You know Dexia's board of directors. It is politically weighted. This means, of course, that indirectly, there would always be a political weight in the management of such an SA, as is the case in most public limited liability companies. But there would be more autonomy in relation to the competent minister of this service, so that eventually the Régie des Bâtiments would no longer be under the supervision of a minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but would be one of the companies run by the Minister of Public Enterprises or by the Minister of Mobility. We are here in the Committee on Mobility and Infrastructure. We have a choice between the Minister responsible for Public Law SAs and the Minister of Mobility and Infrastructure. A second big advantage, in my view, is recruitment, because there is greater freedom in terms of paid wages. To a certain extent, one could be more competitive than the level of wages allowed by the state scale. Please be aware, however, that staff members of the Régie des Bâtiments do not complain that they are not being paid well. I had the opportunity to discuss it with them at three breakfasts and I will have one more. I'm not saying we couldn't get better pay. But that is not what is said first, not even by civil engineers. It must also be seen that this sector does not pay so well in general, unless you work in Qatar or Dubai. Distance obviously makes a difference. These are the two great advantages I see. There are certainly others. Will they be enough to work better? It's not safe. The opinions of the consultants who are currently completing their work at the legal and organizational level will need to be gradually reviewed. Mr Roggeman, we did not stop the work. We followed the rhythm that existed before. Personally, I expect a lot of progress from this client relations manual. Now allow me to answer more specific questions. The frequent change in the teams of the Regie is a result of the lack of staff and the inverse age pyramid, with about 50% of the people who retired in less than ten years. I refer to Mr Fridays for the accounting system. For the renegotiation of the lease agreement, I refer to Mr Vrijdaghs. Mr Roggeman, on the lists of sales, which are being prepared annually and the budgetary objectives associated with them, I can say the following. We have selected the buildings that are already abandoned or are soon to be abandoned. Each building shall be assigned a strategic code indicating "To be retained" or "to be released" and indicating which horizon. Longer-term sales planning is determined by the result of master plans, made for all provincial capitals or designed for all provincial capitals. So we are doing our best to prepare it as well as possible. On the way in which the rental price is determined, I give you the following. A landlord who offers a project usually makes a proposal of a rental price, linked to the location, the finishing level and the rental conditions. At the start of the rental negotiations, the Regie checks the asking price against the market conformity of the price. The dossier, where the rental proposal is submitted to the Finance Inspectorate for approval, assumes that the market conformity of the negotiated rental conditions is demonstrated. For some time now, the Regie has had a database of rental prices to check market conformity. It is not common practice to have the rent estimated by the Federal Procurement Committee. After all, the Regie has its own expertise. The rental price is the result of several factors involved in a negotiation, such as the duration of the contract, incentives of the landlord, such as rental free periods, financial interventions and initial installation works. In the future, however, the plan is that we will create a negotiator function in the new structure of the Regie. This is an expert who can assess the market conformity of a rental proposal. For the answer to the question why the Regie did not answer the auditor's question more quickly, because the audit took so long, I refer to Mr Fridayhs, as well as to the answer to the question about the renegotiation. I was talking about the nv of public law. In relation to the Court of Auditors' reports, an answer to that specific question will be presented at the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 15 October. Mrs Zanchetta, you had a question about the specialised staff. I have already replied to that. The same applies to the question about the nv of public law. Mr Van den Bergh, I have explained as well as possible the principle that those who decide will pay within the framework of these housing contracts, which we will conclude on the basis of the customer relations manual. Thus, the Buildings Control would develop quantitative per square metre per person and qualitative standards for equipment and finishing, to which a standard building must comply. If the occupying service makes peace with that, the Regie pays for the works. If the occupying service wishes to depart from that, he will be presented with the invoice by the Regie. This should also be the case in the case of changes to a validated needs programme. The anchoring of all this will be done in the manual that we are talking about. The Government of the Buildings currently provides the workspace of about 70,000 federal employees. In the future, I would like the Regie to house its customers in full and take away all practical concerns. It is only through this standardisation that the Regie can provide modern and fully equipped workplaces. However, I would like to stress that the Government of the Buildings will have to take matters into its own hands. She can't always do exactly what the customer asks. If it has to do so and the customer is allowed to adjust his needs three to four times on the way, it is impossible to stay within certain cost limits; you will certainly understand that. When you decide at some point to start building a house and during the construction process decide not to set up three but six bedrooms and not two but three bathrooms, I think you'll drive every architect and contractor on the cliff. It is therefore very important that the occupying service and the Regie from the beginning fully agree on the issues. Now I come to Mr Vindevoghel's question. Indeed, the Regie cannot be infiltrated by the business world. The integrity policy of the federal government certainly still has gaps. In my introduction I insisted on recruiting as much expertise as possible within the Regie. I am not opposed to consultants or to lawyers, but whatever the form of the institution as director, as a nv of public law or another, as a builder, the Government of the Buildings must have different expertises to remain a credible counterpart to the private sector, which rents, builds or renovates the buildings. For me, that's essential. The Sustainable Cooperation charter already exists. It was concluded with the construction and immo world to agree high-level rules with the sector. It can be read on the director's website. Whether the charter should and can be updated will be investigated. The question of how the State manages its heritage is answered by Mr.Fridayhs. It is true that there is a need for a multi-year investment plan based on well-researched opinions and options. The Royal Decree of 12 July 2015 on these multi-year plans must be reworked. The Régie was asked to propose an action plan for the evaluation, adaptation and implementation of the amendments, taking into account good practices in the framework of this royal decree, in order to arrive at a set of effective rules and processes for the development and management of multi-year plans. With regard to the ongoing judicial investigation, an investigating judge is referred to the Court. The investigation is the responsibility of the Ghent Public Prosecutor's Office. I have been able to answer several of your questions and I give the floor to Mr Vrijdaghs, who has asked me to send you a very detailed plan on the status of implementation of the internal control recommendations, which shows that we have taken into account the lessons learned from the past and this audit report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u17	Thank you, Minister. It goes without saying that any document transmitted to the Chairman and the Secretariat will also be made available to the members of the two Committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u18	It is logical that this document should be transmitted, which will restore the situation of what is under way and what is yet to be foreseen, if only to know what actions are planned and within what time frame. With regard to the renegotiation of contracts, if we have been able to obtain something in this case, it is good to be able to introduce this clause – which always weakens promoters or investors a little – allowing to review the lease conditions at mid-lease. We are aware that an 18-year contract indexed each year, while the Brussels real estate market follows an inverted curve in relation to indexation, may result in rents no longer reflecting the reality of the market. Contracts concluded in the 2000s on market rental terms now amount to EUR 250 per square metre. No building is rented at 250 euros per square metre in the Brussels Region today. We're more like 170 or 180 euros per square metre. It all depends on where you are, the quality of the building, etc. I am generalizing, but that is the fact that we have made. The Brussels real estate market, unlike all other European markets, does not go by increasing but by decreasing. It's pretty special. The trend is being reversed since, unlike the last ten years, some services, whether public or private, come back to live in the city centre, near large railway stations. What has been abandoned in the past, since there were between 350 000 and 400 000 square metres of empty rental space in the centre of Brussels, is in the process of being reversed. Perhaps the prices will follow inversely this trend. They should go up a little, but today the market price is well below our long-term indexed contracts. That is why we wanted to include this renegotiation clause that we were able to obtain. We will be able to negotiate it before the ninth year of the lease, that is, before December 2022. Might as well get ready as soon as possible. A team will therefore be set up in 2020. We now have the appropriate structure. It will be composed of the Brussels real estate project manager, the manager in charge of negotiating this type of contract, assisted by our legal department and by those whom we have recruited, hopefully, by then, a negotiator with a rather financial, economic profile. Today we do not have this staff profile that will accompany and integrate this team. So we'll have to go get him. That is the answer that I would like to give in relation not to criticism but to the fact that we are going into the private sector rather than doing it internally. When we have not found the means to equip ourselves with qualified personnel, it is important to go outside to find him to be sure to be accompanied properly. The contract provides that, in the absence of an agreement between the owner and the Régie des Bâtiments, a CEPANI-type arbitration procedure will be initiated in accordance with the contractual clauses validated by both parties. So, we have this ability to review this lease on the way, mid-lease. It was a first in comparison to other files that were rented over twenty or thirty years, without any revision of the contract. Long-term contracts, we have fewer and fewer. It's no longer a trend. When we talk about office buildings as such – since the office is quite volatile and evolves quite quickly – there is no longer any reason, when we are not in specific contracts with particular subjects such as equipment for the federal police, for the tendency to rent over the long term. We prefer to limit ourselves to contract periods and deadlines. You also spoke about the strategy for the future. I repeat that we have carried out a monitoring per major city, for all the cities of Belgium. We already knew what we had at our disposal, because that was in our Hydra database. However, we did not know the capacity utilisation of the buildings. Now we know exactly how the buildings are occupied and what the possibilities are to improve and optimise the occupation, in accordance with the new standard. I repeat that the new standard requires customers to respect a certain number of square meters per FTE. So we know what we have and we finally know what the occupation of the buildings is like. This gives us a good idea of the housing of federal services in the different cities of Belgium. Based on the monitoring and on the requests addressed to us regarding additional needs, we make master plans. These are necessary to know what would be the best option for additional housing of additional services. These would be added to certain customers. That gives us a better view of what would be the best option. We must take account of the final deadline of the various contracts and be sure that we can anticipate the movement of a move from a building. A good example in relation to this dossier are the administrative services that were housed in the Kroontuin, le Jardin de la Couronne, until 2023. It is now 2019 and 2023, which is so to speak tomorrow about real estate strategy. We must ensure that the customer's will is respected. There was talk of centralization of the service and we still have areas in large buildings in Brussels, in the Financial Tower and in the North Galaxy in the North Quarter. So we need to program a chair dance to ensure that in the long term, and rather before the end of the contract of the Crown Garden, we can centralize the administrative services of the federal police alongside the RAC, which is valid until 2031. The aim is to make room in the financial institutions to house the services of the federal police. The services to be taken away, in particular those from the FPS Finance Office, will be collected in the North Galaxy, a building located next to the North Station and rented in the long term. It will be a serious exercise, which we are now working on with other services, to collect those large, important services that are housed in Brussels in the current portfolio, with better occupancy of the buildings, also taking into account the new standard. The new standard, as it was first applied in 2012, and then revised in 2018, now allows us to have a lever on our occupants, free of charge, by the way, requiring them to comply with occupancy standards, which was obviously not the case before. In addition, it frees up space that can be occupied by others, which allows us to reduce the wing in terms of rented buildings and to better accommodate all our services in more concentrated sets. This makes less rental contracts, less energy consumption, and therefore a significant saving and much more efficient operation. That's the strategy for the future. By big city, we have a relatively precise view of what our customers want and how we will have to meet their needs in the future, taking into account the deadlines of certain leases. There were also several questions about redesign. The Minister referred in detail to the plan to transform the Régie into a public limited liability company. I'm not going to say any more about that. I would just like to say that with regard to the transformation office and the redesign operation as such, the transformation office is present at the Régie without the assistance of consultants. We finally took hold of what has been shown to us, although we already knew a great deal of the things to improve and possible examples outside of it that we could draw inspiration from. The transformation office is still operational in the sense that it follows a whole series of measures that had already been initiated before and well before the redesign and benchmarking led by Deloitte about which you had an explanation in the parliamentary committee last year. There are a series of major themes such as recruitment, accounting with, finally, analytical accounting with a modern accounting system, which is still not the case now, with the implementation of the famous integrated management system of working environment, the IT tool IWMS which will allow us to anticipate not only the maintenance of the buildings, but also to budget the impact. It's important because, today, we maintain when it's almost too late. We will therefore have a clear view of what the simple maintenance of a real estate portfolio will require. I'll come back to the investments later. There is also the whole aspect of PMO (project management office), all the monitoring of projects in an electronic way, visible to all our clients. This is a computer tool that will allow us to have an hour-by-hour follow-up of the evolution of a project and the reasons why the project is moving forward or not. There's the purchasing center. All these tools, whether computer or functional in the structure, will be followed by the transformation office, for two reasons: to ensure that this progresses and, above all, to focus on the objectives. One fact is certain: we are moving forward with several challenges in parallel. However, which embraces too much, sometimes poorly restrained, we find ourselves in front of a transformation of the Régie at all levels, whether in its statutes, in its structure or in its functioning. All these projects therefore come at the same time. I come back to the President's remark that he asked whether our resources were sufficient. The means are obviously not sufficient today. Indeed, ten years ago, we were about 1,300 people. I'm rounding the human resources figures. Today we are about 700 people. This situation is not merely an economic will. In ten years, we lost almost half of the staff. We are too little today for the way we operate, and compared to the IT tools, which are not yet implemented. These will require learning from staff. We could not rely on our situation to say that we can move forward with 700 people. No, our recognized framework, functionally and not just budgetaryly, has about 960 full-time equivalents. We're undernumbered. But one thing has to be recognized. Since the beginning of this year, we may have awakened the Régie and its recruitment procedures. Thanks to the certification of certain agents, they will be able to do the work in place of the cross-section known as the Selor, which is competent for recruitment. But we also woke up the Selor, and we allowed him to make sure that he met the demand. The observation has been impressive since the beginning of the year: the fact that we have considered the subject, both on the Régie side and on the Selor side, both through the minister responsible for the Régie and the minister responsible for the public service, has paid. We have hired 56 new employees since the beginning of the year. This figure dates from the end of July, beginning of August. In less than six months, we did as much as in one year in the best years. We now feel that simplifying things allows us to recover this backlog. Our pyramid is always reversed, there are always more departures than recruitments unfortunately, even if the problem is gradually resolved. The upward trend is very clear of the 120 profiles for which the Minister has agreed and which must be committed. These profiles of competent and trained persons are intended for a series of functions necessary for the profession we carry out. I'm not telling you that it's complicated to find these people. I explained in my introductory statement that we were not playing with equal weapons. At the beginning of a career, we cannot be ashamed of our conditions before other public institutions. I'm not gonna compare us here to private. There is no comparison possible when adding all the benefits in kind that the state does not offer; it is absolutely not comparable. But if we compare ourselves to other public institutions, we realize that for the beginnings of careers we do not have to blush, even for civil engineers who still benefit from the famous "concrete prime" of the civil engineers of the time, which still allows us to attract this kind of profile. Career development is quite different than in other public institutions. After five or six years, some officers are wondering if they would win anywhere else, because of other scales and a greater rapprochement of scales. Here we see a wage deficit compared to other public institutions - regional, provincial and municipal. We have to take this problem into account, either to correct the shot or to offer something more. In any case, we cannot persevere in this disqualification in comparison with other public bodies. With this public fibre, this interest in the State or in the civil service in general, some might prefer - for an additional 250 euros - to exercise their talents in other public institutions. I am not going to add any more on our profession - which is very technical and very pointed - for the exercise for which the students are almost torn off the benches of the university, whether they are industrial engineers, architects, civil engineers or site controllers. Even in this case, we face enormous competition and lack of skills in the labour market. You will understand that we are suffering from a lack of human resources, but we also miss the money. A multi-annual equity investment plan has been drawn up for the period 2018-2022. This is a novelty in this matter. We know what direction we are taking for five years, working on projects that are both managerially and politically validated and budgeted, which, planned in time, is no more bad; but they are so on their own. These are projects for which we receive resources, but which are insufficient. To sum it up, this multi-annual investment plan amounts to a total of €950 million, but we lack 370 million to carry out these projects. This means that we are moving forward in a risky way, because part of the investment is not yet covered. In other words, this plan is in such a budgetary context that the envelope and human resources will have to be completed. In the absence of staff and money, we will not be able to undertake anything more than what has been decided. This message is important for the future, so as to avoid continuous orders without, however, having the necessary human and budgetary means, in particular in terms of alternative financing. We did not choose for pleasure to join the services of private firms to build prisons, because it was a necessity. We had to move fast, despite the lack of resources. I have already had the opportunity to explain, on several occasions, here in committee that, if we have chosen DBFMs, it is not to please the private sector. It's mostly to move forward in a controlled environment. And we realize more and more that, when we associate the services of a private person, this framework is really under control, both in time and in expenditure. For all of our DBFM projects, we have an additional cost of between 1.5% and 3% of the estimated base amount. This means that with Justice, DG PPE in particular, we have made sure to define – the contract with a private DBFM is not a classic contract, it is almost a "legal bible" – as precisely as possible and as fully as possible the needs necessary to achieve the expected performance of a prison. This specification allows us to have, from the outset, a mastery of the whole delegated to a private person. We can go back to the cost. What we are allowed to do is move forward with a small staff and deliver projects that are so much expected by Justice, which was not the case in the CARs file. Here, we have a problem of budgetary slippage. It's said to every page of the audit. This budgetary slippage is mainly due to the fact that we had 50% of the needs defined or predefined before launching the infernal machine that could no longer stop when we left. The slate has therefore been completed as and when. And, of course, by completing the slate, the amount increases. I am making a simple calculation, because we are talking about budgetary slippage, about slipping away from the needs that have led to an extra budgetary cost. If we translate this amount of 38 million euros into the number of m2 equipped specifically for the federal police, with the needs that it had told us in the past, we turn to 500 euros of the gross m2. It's not a seasonal amount. If we translate this into useful m2 (primer area), we are 800 euros of the m2. These are not abnormal data compared to other building equipment that may not be as specific as this, which do not require fire pits, laboratories, other infrastructure specific to the profession of the federal police. I go back to the gross-net ratio criticized by the Finance Inspectorate. For this building, we have a gross to net ratio of 1.6. Therefore, net m2 useful in relation to gross m2 is a ratio of 1.6. It's better now because the technologies have advanced, but it's not an abnormal relationship to what we can find in the market either. This is for the little parenthesis. I think there were still others in view of all the questions asked. I would also like to go back to the benchmark. If the Finance Inspectorate takes two countries in particular, the consultant appointed under the redesign has taken other examples in this area (Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland). We have the advantage of knowing this, since the Régie des Bâtiments is part of an international network of public enterprises managing in real estate. We had already compared with some countries in the north, rather than in the north, which operated on the basis of this kind of public limited company, or agencies, totally independent of a specific minister client of the Régie (once it is finance, once it is the interior, once it is justice). If tomorrow we are assigned under the supervision of the Minister responsible for Science Policy and Museums, we will only make museums for five years. Perhaps one day it would be good if the Régie were fully transversalized, not only in its operation, but also in its political tutelage, so that it was ultimately bound to a minister, whether it was public enterprises or the public service, but that it did not have a direct connection with a part of the core business it carried out for a specific client. It's all in the interest of having this structure, that status. It is not specifically to be a public limited company with the State as the sole shareholder. I could talk about it for hours, Mr. President, but I'm gonna stop. It is above all to have this flexibility and autonomy that the minister told us earlier. It is important, if we want to benchmark public institutions, to take a fairly comprehensive panel, as was the case in Deloitte's benchmark in 2017, which brought a whole series of findings, including customer accountability through a pay-for-money relationship. It's already happening now. I'd like to finish on one thing. It is true that the audit is very critical, and rightly so. But the world is not perfect, unfortunately. We have a whole series of procedures which exist, but which are not yet materialised or formalized in procedures which bring together all the measures that we should apply. I will go back to the Major Projects manual, which accompanies the Customer Relations manual. This Large Projects manual is done at 60%, you will see it in the document that we will forward to you. The remaining 40% need to bring together all the procedures that we have in parallel on public procurement, on how to write the specifications, on a whole series of things that need to be concentrated and that need to be formalized in order for staff to be aware of them. Things are doing better than before, but they can do much better in the future. The world is not yet perfect, but we are trying to do it with the means we have and the time we have, which unfortunately is still too long in fact. But at the same time, business as usual must continue. It may be for this reason that the reactions to the Finance Inspectorate were not very rapid. A small clarification in relation to the findings: the two Directors-General, the three General Advisers and the Head of the Legal Service, who were following the file originally, have not been there since 2014. Compared to the measures, we have set up an internal control unit, a governance and quality unit. We now have ways to control the institution, but history and memory left the Régie in 2014, which obviously did not facilitate the relationship with the Inspectorate of Finance. Indeed, when memory disappears, it is difficult to find the archives. Some of these archives were searched by Committee P, in the context of the judicial case concerning the federal police at first, since the Régie here was only consulted as a witness, given its relationship with the file. I'm gonna get out of this. I think I have omitted the more operational and day-to-day aspects of the Régie, but I am always personally available for further explanations, depending on the questions that will be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u19	Minister Vrijdaghs, we thank you very much for your explanation. As Parliament always has the last word, I invite colleagues who still wish to speak to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u20	Mr President, I look forward to the information we will get through the secretariat, because for me and most of my colleagues, I assume, the debate is not over. Mr. Secretary, I remember three things. Firstly, if I have understood correctly, the audit report was at the Council of Ministers on 30 August, but it was not discussed. However, it was discussed at the DAB between the cabinet chiefs. It would be nice to hear what can be drawn from that conclusion. Secondly, you are talking about the manual customer relationships that are being developed. It would be interesting to know whether these manual customer relationships and the resilience to which you refer are also worn by the entire government, otherwise they simply have a good internal manual. Thirdly, I agree that a transformation process is not only done with fine words: reddesign, transformation office, nv of public law. What is important is how one fills in the transformation, because otherwise one only has a beautiful new name but does not change anything and that is not the intention either. Finally, I agree with what Mr Fridays implicitly says. You say that the framework is being filled, Minister, and that it is absolutely necessary for public administrations to have some internal expertise. I fully agree that we need strong public services. However, if I understand correctly, the framework is partly filled, but we are still very far from filling the framework. It is too slow a process: from 700 to 960 there is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u21	Thank you for that answer. This is indeed a very long-term dossier and projects. I'm not going to go into the details. I'll just highlight a few things. First of all, I would like to go back to the hearings that we have requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u22	We'll talk about it at the end of our session. Rest assured!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u23	According to your answer, Mr. Vrijdaghs, if you did not have the opportunity to respond formally to the Finance Inspectorate, as you said, it is a matter of time and team change. It is these elements that justify the absence of a response. I would also like to return to the last point. You said you were going to send us some documents. It's obviously very interesting. Will the investment plan be part of it? I don't know if he's ever been sent to the committee. Is that possible or not? I think it is interesting to consider the future, more specifically investment planning. Finally, I address the minister. Thank you for sharing your thoughts on the SA under public law. We did not have the opportunity to conduct this debate under the previous legislature. It's very important to us. I agree with you that this does not automatically mean privatisation. On the other hand, it is a tool that allows, if necessary, to privatize. You recalled it, it was the case with bpost and Proximus. Of course, we are concerned about the possibility of privatization. This is a debate that will have to be conducted in substance. On the other hand, about the advantages you're quoting, there are some interesting things. At some point, we must also be able to achieve a balance. This is certainly a point to follow in all these cases which, as has been said, are very important in terms of the proper management of the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u24	With regard to the investment plan which Mr Vanden Burre has just quoted, I should like to mention the following. Last Friday, I heard you make a number of statements about the appropriations and the amount, in particular about the lack of financial resources. On page 14 of the most recent report of the Monitoring Committee, the multiannual estimate 2021-2024, there is a small passage. I quote: 'The appropriations provided for in the estimates for the administration of the Buildings are insufficient to carry out the investment programme in accordance with the timing currently maintained by the Regie'. Let me just explain that to you, Minister. Of course, this also has implications for a future government with full authority. As regards the staff shortage, I had asked about the recent critical report of the Court of Auditors on a number of aspects, including accounting aspects and ICT. Mr Vanden Burre mentioned that. If you allow me to do so, I will withdraw my question. You know that the accounts of the Directors of the Buildings of 2015, 2016 and 2017 are classified as substandard by the Court of Auditors. The accounts of 2012, 2013 and 2014 have also been declared uncontrolled by the Court of Auditors. That's important, isn't it? An accounting plan of 1988 would still be used for general accounting, so that the annual accounts do not show a true picture of the assets, the financial situation and the result of the Regie. The Court of Auditors also mentions that the Regie has too few accounting staff and the accounting software has not been updated for years. IT would also have too few technically qualified staff. Can you give any further explanation on that recent report from the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u25	Minister, thank you for these answers. I hear you want to learn from the past. We believe that this public limited liability company would not solve all the current problems, even if we understand that you want more flexibility and flexibility for the Régie des Bâtiments. This company would lose weight in public control of files. What we really want is to maintain the integrity of the federal heritage. In terms of staff, it is understood that commitments are under way and that some profiles are difficult to recruit for their expertise. We understand this, but the needs remain acute, as are the needs for efficient computerization. We will pay attention to this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u26	Thank you for the answers. I am still very concerned about the situation, because it is very serious, as has been mentioned here. I believe that there are insufficient guarantees on divisions between the Regie, politics and the business world. The interests are not the same. Let's make that very clear. The government needs to keep a close eye on that. I am pleased that additional staff will be recruited. Good staffing is important in order for the service to function properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u27	I think we can conclude. I thank the Minister and Mr Vrijdaghs for their participation. We have had a quality debate that opens up many questions and prospects for the future, which it is important to build on better foundations. Mr Vanden Burre tells us that it would be interesting to receive in our committee the members of the Finance Inspectorate who drafted this report. We have had a debate with the minister responsible – for the time being – for the Régie des Bâtiments and the deputy head, but this does not prevent other hearings. I therefore put the question to the committee, which decides on its work. Are we in favour of Mr Vanden Burre's proposal to invite those responsible for the report to continue the discussion on the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u28	Mr President, as far as our group is concerned, that was already taken into account in my questions to the Minister for the Budget. So we are indeed asking parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic019x.u29	If there is no other intervention, I think there is a consensus in the committee. We shall therefore schedule this hearing.
