ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u1	Mr Van Langenhove, I assume you have read the Rules of Procedure in the meantime. The question and the answer may not exceed five minutes. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a new phenomenon. Already in the early 2000s the first swimming pools closed the doors due to nuisance and crime caused by immigrant young people. Also in my early childhood I experienced how immigrant youngsters in the open-air swimming pool of Huizingen pulled bikinis from thirteen-year-old girls right in front of me. Today we rightly call that phenomenon swimming pool terror. However, it seems that every summer we have to find that our people and our families can no longer enjoy a day out to the outdoor swimming pool or to the provincial domain, as if we forget every summer that it happens every year, again in Beveren, Sint-Niklaas, Ostend, Hofstade, Kessel-Lo, Mechelen and Ghent, everywhere in Flanders and Belgium. It's really a national problem. Even abroad, in Terneuzen, our immigrant youngsters terrorize ordinary families and teenage girls who want to enjoy a day out. Minister, what will you do to tackle this phenomenon, as the current instruments seem to be inadequate? What legal means are currently available to deal with nuisance in our recreational areas? How come we are still faced with this problem? Are additional measures being taken to ensure that such ammo makers can be permanently excluded from our recreational areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u3	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for being here. You didn't even need to be requisitioned. That seemed very different yesterday, when a fellow government minister suggested in current cases that we should not meet for such questions and that there should be no debate. I believe that it is a core task of every Parliament to question ministers. The problem was downplayed. That kind of bumps me in the chest a little bit. It was about the local swimming pool in Ostend, which should not be discussed in the federal Parliament. It's about Zemst, Hofstade, Sint-Niklaas and Ghent. It's about so much more. We also allow questions about the Cinquantenaire Museum, which are put on the Walloon side in this federal committee. That is necessary. This is the forum for that, because it's a federal matter. We must not trivialize it, because it is a phenomenon that is now happening, as we speak, in Flanders. Steps are being taken. The local authorities and the owners of recreational domains are taking steps, such as identity checks and agreements with De Lijn, but I would like to ask what more we can do. At this moment people want to enjoy the water and the beach, where they go with the children. It must be possible to do so safely. Mr Minister, my questions to you are as follows. Can you give me an overview of the number of crimes and cases of criminal nuisance in or around public swimming pools? What are the preventive measures taken by the police zones? What are the preventive measures taken by the operators? After all, I assume that there is active contact with these operators. Where is the law on private security used for private security under the Jambon Law? What powers are being exercised? What guidelines were given by your services? Do you see an opportunity to ward off known troublemakers from public swimming pools and recreational areas? Can there be similar work with lists of people who are denied access to the swimming pools to the system of a stadium ban in the football law? If necessary, can these lists be divided between the various public pools and recreational areas? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for attending this first committee meeting. I would like to say first of all that, as mayor and responsible Minister for the Interior and Security, I myself strongly condemn any kind of nuisance in places that should be an oasis of peace and relaxation for every visitor. That nuisance is unacceptable and requires firm action. Having said that, I should like to point out that the facts to which you refer, which are largely but not exclusively linked to the summer season, fall primarily within the competence of, on the one hand, the operators of these installations and, on the other hand, the local authorities. For the sake of clarity, they are authorised to take the appropriate measures in accordance with the scale of the problems. So no one can shun his duty. For example, private and/or public operators can use the use of private surveillance. The law regulating private and special security allows the use of security agents. For example, these security agents can be used to monitor the event within a swimming pool and/or a recreational area. They may also exercise control over the persons present in order to ensure safety in all these places. In this context, agents may carry out access checks and, if necessary, deny access to persons who compromise the safety of other persons present or could compromise the safe operation of the swimming pool or the domain. Persons caught in the act of committing a malpractice or crime may be captured and detained pending the police forces, as laid down in the provisions of the law. They can only carry out identity checks when accessing places that are not accessible to the public. Local authorities also play an important role in this. I am thinking, for example, of the administrative measures taken by the mayor of Beveren, Mr Marc Van de Vijver, with a view to registering and thus identifying visitors to the swimming pool LAGO. If such preventive measures are not sufficient or are not sufficient, the administrative authorities may take measures, such as recently in Ostend, by means of a place ban allowing the police to act immediately and to remove these persons from the site and, if necessary, to sanction them. Addressing these forms of nuisance also remains a priority for the federal government and was also included in the 2016-2019 Chamber of Commerce Paper, which brings together measures in the area of prevention, combating, punishment and continuous follow-up. The FPS Home Affairs has also been taking initiatives for years to address nuisances in recreational areas and in particular to support local authorities in the development and implementation of their security policies in this area. In conclusion, this kind of nuisance will always find me a strong contender. Should this phenomenon persist, I will take or impose additional measures in consultation with the competent authorities. In this case, wanting is also possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I regret the fact that you do not dare fully name the elephant in the room...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u6	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u7	...and that you mainly shift responsibility to the pools and to the local authorities, while the responsibility for the causes lies with you and your colleagues and especially with your predecessors. This is, in particular, a failed justice policy, a failed security policy and a failed migration policy. I hope that, in addition to the current instruments, things will be added so that local authorities and pools will be given more resources to combat this nuisance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u8	Mr President, I do not have the figures in your answer, but we are not under any illusions about the fact that we do know a member of your security alliance. What we are missing here is a national legal framework, but I have heard you say that you wish to take and take these steps. It's up to us to follow that. I think you should really consider working with a blacklist. What Mr Ostend is doing is good, but that information should also be shared. I refer again to the new football law, where the fan cards are needed. That could bring relief here. Minister, we are following your ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u9	Mr Minister, last week the media reported on a candidate for police training who was declared unfit for the medical trial just on the basis of her length of time, she is an inch too small. That medical trial is the last trial in the full selection procedure. This is a candidate who has thus passed all the previous tests, has also obtained a university degree and has been internship with the police twice on a voluntary basis. In the meantime, there is a serious shortage of police officers in our country. Only yesterday, there was a cry from the Association of R &amp; D Justices, because certain research activities are threatened by this shortage. Despite the great lack of police officers, absurd selection criteria are still being used. It was a promise made by the previous government, including former Minister Jambon, to thoroughly reform police training and the corresponding selection criteria. We have to note that this promise has not been fulfilled to this day. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Former Minister Jambon announced a process of reform for the police. What is the status of the trajectory? What specific initiatives have been taken with regard to the reform of selection criteria? What further steps can we expect with regard to the reform of the route? How many vacancies do the integrated police currently have? What is the annual evolution of that figure between 2014 and 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u10	Mr Minister, on 15 June 2017, the Committee of Inquiry against Terrorism issued its interim report on the section on Security Architecture. It noted, among other things, that "In order to ensure the optimum performance of its tasks, the federal police have 13,500 staff, according to the Royal Decree of 27 October 2015. The Committee of Inquiry notes, however, that this theoretical staff does not correspond to the actual situation. As a result of the savings measures implemented since 2007, the federal police in practice only have about 11,000 employees. Commissioner-General De Bolle rightly pointed out that the 14 % staff deficit for the operational framework even resulted in 15.1% of the federal police being unable to carry out all its tasks in an optimal way." Therefore, one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry was that the federal police should be strengthened urgently, at least until the planned establishment plan of 13,500 staff. Today, more than two years after these recommendations, Philippe Van Linthout, co-chair of the Association of R &amp; D Justices, again raises the alarm. He says in the newspaper that when investigators in a file ask the police to investigate certain cases, the answer is often that the detectives cannot do so. That's because of a huge lack of staff. The result is that there are hardly any people to investigate fraud and corruption cases, that the Federal Computer Crime Unit is on apegapen, that there is a large turnover in terra departments and that there is also a lack of capacity among local detectives. Capacity utilisation in the various services is thus at risk of determining priorities, whereas it should be the exact opposite. Do you recognise that two years after the urgent recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, there is still a serious shortage of staff in the police? What is the number of employees employed today in conjunction with the 13,500 employees that have been committed? How big is the deficit today? What efforts have been made over the past two years to overcome the deficit? What initiatives are planned to speed up the reduction of the deficit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u11	Mr. Speaker, Minister, it is well known that several specialized federal police services have had to suffer from the impact of the budgetary measures taken during the coming parliamentary term. Whether it is at the level of personnel or the capacity to invest in the equipment necessary for the proper functioning of the services, the needs are real, if not stark, at different levels. I am thinking here of intervention vehicles, radio equipment or computer equipment for the cybercrime units that are in the process of developing. In the context of the forthcoming vote on provisional appropriations, have you considered the possibility of sliding the allocation of the federal police budget to respond to the most urgent situations without having to find new means? Clearly, it is known that budgetary appropriations will no longer be used when needs exist at other levels. Can you envisage any shifts in these budgetary appropriations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u12	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, I have just read your question. This one didn't happen to me. I will therefore respond provisionally and make a proposal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with Mrs Soors' question. I must point out, however, that specific figures are the subject of written questions and are answered in writing. The project "Police Education" in security education is continued both in terms of the alignment of police education with mainstream education and in terms of increasing synergies and cooperation between the police education entities. The Steering Committee and the various working groups meet regularly. This is a large-scale project involving many actors. Very concrete progress has already been made. The function profile for the base frame has been approved and the function profiles for the agent frame and middle frame are currently being completed. The new training plan for the basic framework has been developed but still needs to be validated at the different levels. The organisational modalities of the new training plan are also being discussed. In addition, all steps are carried out in cooperation with the Communities with a view to the final recognition of such training. For cooperation and synergy between the police training bodies, there is a working document which forms the basis for the discussions in the closed working groups. There will soon be a state of affairs shortly after the summer holidays, I believe, to be submitted to the coordination committee of the integrated police. As regards the selection procedure and selection criteria, in the context of the development of a global and integrated human resource policy, the selection procedure is effectively reviewed and the criteria are currently being submitted for negotiation with the trade unions. Relations with trade unions are particularly good, in order to prove this the sectoral agreement, which has remained in place for a very long time but has recently been approved. It is very clear, however, that new conditions must also be tested by these organisations. Ms Kitir, the deficit of the federal police in May 2019 was 16.3% of the frame of reference set by my predecessor. In absolute terms, the number of police personnel has remained as stable as they have been in recent years. The shortage in the labour market has already been mentioned at previous meetings, which are taking place across all sectors, and makes it difficult to increase the number of employees in absolute figures. During the last two years, recruitment was mainly aimed at filling out the places in the fight against terrorism. Both in 2017 and 2018 the external recruitment of 1,400 inspectors was foreseen. An effort was also made at the level of the officers. In 2017 and 2018, 72 and 143 prospective Commissioners started their training respectively. This year, too, 1,400 inspectors will be recruited. The global recruitment framework has been raised to 1,600. In order to achieve this number, so-called fast-track selections have already been organised in several places, with the candidates going through the selection tests at an accelerated rate and being allocated more quickly to the zones, with a view to supplementing the desired framework. In addition, 130 prospective Commissioners started their training this year. I come back to Mr Thiébaut's question, in the circumstances I have just outlined. Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I am obviously well aware of the budgetary challenges within the federal police and the impact on investment. We have considered slippages, on the proposal of the federal police, obviously respecting the constraints of budgetary principles and day-to-day affairs. It does not make life easier at all – it is an understatement. The final discussion will take place in the Council of Ministers on Friday. I will submit a proposal to him. I propose to inform you in writing of the decision to be taken by the Council of Ministers following this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u13	Thank you for the detailed answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm glad to hear that there are more precise figures. I will certainly take your suggestion to heart and follow it up in writing. With regard to the concrete results, I am pleased to hear that there are results. Week after week, I can only see from the reports from the field that these results are not yet tangible. I would once again urge that this be done as quickly as possible, in order to provide support for the people on the ground, not only for the agents themselves, but also for basic safety in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u15	Minister, your answer does not reassure me at all. You said that the staff shortage was 16.3%. That is more than when the report of the Committee of Inquiry was drawn up. At that time, that was 14%. Instead of eliminating the shortage of staff, the deficit has only increased. I would really like to point out the seriousness of the matter here. We are not going to wait for something to happen again, so that we all wake up and realise that the shortage of staff in the police force is an urgent problem that needs to be addressed urgently. Far too few people are recruited. You don't take into account people who retire or fall out. We're two years after date, the increase in staff shortages is a big mess. Mr President, I propose that the follow-up to the Committee of Inquiry be convened again as a matter of urgency. This shows that the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry are not taken seriously and that we must pay due attention to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u16	Minister, thank you. I have heard your proposal and I hope that we will have a return from you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u17	Mr President, Minister, on 30 June last, a group of Muslim scouts and guides from Brussels travelled to Ostend to enjoy a beautiful day at the sea, like other citizens. This day could have been one of the most beautiful of the year if an elected member of the Vlaams Belang had not decided to publish a photo on his Facebook page, accompanied by a comment in which he complained of the public space "occupied with shame by Muslims who think they can own the beach". The publication was followed by more than 100 disparaging or even outright hateful comments calling for vexatious action against a part of the population. Unfortunately, this incident is not an isolated case. Recently, three families of foreign origin living in Alost received racist threats in their mailbox, after the last election results. That, of course, raises questions, Minister. On an ethical level, the nation's elected representatives must put the general interest first. Here we see very clearly that we are trying to stir up fears, to strengthen the prejudices of voters. We're playing on people's fears instead of talking to reason. Legally speaking, the release of racist speech in recent years will be difficult to reverse if those who have made it possible are not punished. Minister, I would like to ask you three specific questions: In the light of these various incidents, what lessons do you learn from these situations and what steps do you plan to take? How many complaints have been registered in this area? What means do you intend to give the police forces to combat this phenomenon of xenophobia further?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u18	Mr President, dear colleague, Joint Circular 13/2013 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General of the Court of Appeal on research and prosecution policy on discrimination and hate crimes provides for the designation of reference police officers for the local police and for front-line units of the federal police. As the focal point of the reference magistrate, the prosecutor's office and the auditorate, this reference police officer provides police officers with all the information necessary to enable them to receive victims properly and to respond adequately. Police reference officers receive two-day training from Unia, in collaboration with the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. In response to your question about xenophobia, the police recorded 1,045 incidents in 2018, 930 in 2017 and 997 in 2016, at the national level. These data are from the data bank closed as at 26 April 2019. With regard to your last question, in November 2016, the Internet Reference Unit (IRU), a unit within the Central Directorate for Combating Serious and Organised Crime of the Judicial Police, was officially designated by the Ministries of Justice and the Interior as the reference unit for the subject of hate speech (racist, homophobic, xenophobic, religious or sexual). The IRU is autonomously patrolling on the Internet or receiving elements from various sources. After finding and capturing the evidence, the department identifies the author and prepares a report for him. This service also requests the withdrawal of content on the basis of non-compliance with the code of conduct directly with Internet service providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-16-55-commissie-ic002x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. We are therefore seeing an increase in the number of acts of xenophobia and racism in our country. You gave the figures for 2016, 2017 and 2018. The situation is worrying. It's not just the media that cover what's going on. The figures objectively show an increase in acts of discrimination. I recall that xenophobia has become a sort of doping product in politics, at the expense of ethics and rules. The traces she leaves in our social body are deep. People, sometimes young teenagers like these Scouts I mentioned, have to suffer, in their flesh, the violation of ethics and rule. I think it's a subject that's going to make a lot of talk about him. Of course, I intend to go back to this issue to monitor developments at the level of the Ministries of the Interior and Justice.
