ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u1	Minister, in April 2019, it was reported that HSBC had entered into a record criminal transaction in Belgium, reaching an amount of 300 million euros. It thus escaped a public trial, whereas the case concerns, in the end, no less than 3,000 Belgians holding 4,616 accounts in the same bank for a total amount of $6.26 billion. Mr Minister, on 2 October 2019, I asked you about the impunity of large-scale financial crime: since the law of 18 March 2018, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 2 May 2018, has allowed the resumption of extended criminal transactions, how much have been granted in full and for what total amount? How many transactions of more than EUR 1 million were granted and for what total amount? How many transactions of more than EUR 10 million were granted and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 50 million have been granted and for what total amount? On the occasion of this oral question in the Committee on Justice concerning the preparation of periodic reports on extended criminal transactions, you replied: "The College of Attorneys General promised me to provide, by the end of the year, a statistical overview of the extended criminal transactions that were concluded in 2018. The previous report dates from 2017." In view of the above and as the end of the year approaches, Minister, I would like to reiterate my request. Have these statistics actually been transmitted by the College of Attorneys General to your attention? Can you provide us with a copy? Can you, on the basis of this statistical data, give us answers to the questions formulated on October 2, 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u2	Mr Boukili, my answer is short. I refer to my reply given in the session of October 2, 2019. As I said, the College of Attorneys General promised me to provide by the end of 2019 a statistical overview of all the extended criminal transactions that were concluded in 2018; this overview will be made available to you at a later date. It is not yet late 2019 but I will remind the College of its commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u3	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is true that the year is not yet over, but I was hoping, since we are in December, that this overview would be available. I will re-examine you in due course to have these figures available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u4	We are waiting for Mr Verherstraeten. In the meantime, Mrs Houtmeyers, you can answer your question. 55002035C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u5	Mr. Minister, according to Article 7:101, § 1 of the WVV, the statutes may provide that the nv is governed by a single director, whether or not appointed in the statutes. In the fourth paragraph of that provision we read that the statutes appoint a successor for the sole director. When a successor to the sole director has to be arranged in the statutes, what happens to a non-statutory director? Can no successor be appointed because the sole director was not appointed by law, or should the successor also be appointed in the statutes or even outside the statutes, since that is not prohibited?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u6	Mrs Houtmeyers, as you rightly point out, an NSA can be governed by a single director if provided for in the statutes. That director may, but should not necessarily be appointed in the statutes according to Article 7:101, § 1 of the WVV. In that case, he may be dismissed only by a majority required for amendment of his statutes, provided that he does not exercise his statutory right of veto (except in the case of a legitimate reason). If the company chooses to appoint a successor for the sole director immediately, the appointment of this successor in the statutes must be made pursuant to Article 7: 101, §1, fourth paragraph, of the WVV, so that current and future shareholders and interested third parties know that the continuity of the general meeting is assured without further action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u7	Minister, that is clear. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u8	Mr Minister, in the event of a partial division or merger by the formation of a new company, it seems obvious that since 1 May the new company has been subject to the new WVV and is still subject to the Code of Companies, subject to opt-in in the existing company or companies. Both companies must, however, go through a joint division or merger procedure. Should the company to be split or merged first voluntarily submit itself to the WVV through the opt-in, i.e., amendment of the statutes, filing, publication and then signature of the division proposal, and then the complete procedure for the existing company and the company to be formed, be completed uniformly in accordance with the WVV? Or can each company go through the procedure in accordance with the law applicable to it, provided that each company complies at least with the obligations imposed on it? The advantage is, of course, that prior opt-in should not be done with the corresponding time loss and costs. If you believe that an opt-in should be done first, should the law be read literally and the opt-in published before taking any further steps? Practically this would be very annoying as the opt-in-deed would first have to go through the notarial process and wait for its publication to be able to return to the notary for the follow-up story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u9	Mrs Houtmeyers, the simplest solution would, of course, be for both companies to opt-in in order to apply a uniform procedure. Even if this solution is not possible or desirable, it is possible to achieve the merger or division. Similar rules should be applied to those developed in practice for cross-border mergers or divisions in the absence of a legal procedure for that purpose, in particular in the distribution of the provisions which apply to each company individually and in the cumulative application of the provisions and conditions which they must satisfy jointly. Thus, the company subject to the old Code of Companies must apply the procedure of the old Code of Companies and the company subject to the new Code of Companies and Associations the procedure of the new Code of Companies and Associations. It's called a distributional application. For the requirements to be fulfilled jointly, such as the proposed merger or division, they must satisfy cumulatively the requirements of the old Company Code and the new Company and Association Code. Where there is doubt as to whether a particular obligation falls within the scope of the distributional or cumulative application, it is always appropriate to apply the provisions cumulatively. From 1 January 2020, the mandatory provisions of the Company Law Code, including merger and division procedures, will also apply to existing companies, whether or not they have already adapted their statutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for this answer, which removes any doubts and confirms the practice of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u11	Madam President, Minister, my two questions relate to the recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman. The first concerns the reimbursement of unduly paid fines; the second concerns the payment and contestation of a road fine. In 2013, the Federal Ombudsman made a recommendation which is extremely topical: "When introducing a new internal organisational measure, it is necessary to take into account not only the efficiency of internal working procedures, but also the improvement of the service. The introduction of a new computer system cannot be at the expense of the quality of service to users. When this is still the case, the administration must react quickly and adequately." At the time of the introduction of the digital system for the payment of road fines, the SPF Justice found itself in 2018 in the face of dozens of complaints lodged with the Federal Ombudsman. Citizens had paid too much or undue amounts in the road fines account. Last February, you told Parliament that 44,000 cases had been reimbursed and that the others would follow before the end of the month. Minister, nine months later, where are the repayments going? Have all problems with the introduction of the digital system been solved? Is perception more effective? My second question concerns the weaknesses and disadvantages of federal public services, identified by the Federal Ombudsman from a relevant perspective. Indeed, the latter has received an influx of complaints concerning the new automated procedure for the payment of road fines. The helpdesk created by the SPF Justice to answer the questions and problems posed by the website www.frenchroads.be was accessible only and difficult to reach by telephone or even unreachable. In addition, the paid call made waiting times costly for the citizen. From then on, the latter had nowhere to go to get an answer to his questions and complaints about road fines, whether to pay them or to challenge them. Minister, how do you react to the criticism of the Federal Ombudsman, as expressed in the annual report? What action has been taken to follow up on its recommendation for a helpdesk capable of solving administrative problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u12	Mr Kir, my administration has, on several occasions, carried out constructive consultations with the Federal Ombudsman. The aim is to continue this dialogue. Several proposals put forward by the Federal Mediation Service have already been implemented and other proposals are in the process of technical development, which clearly indicates that we are taking the proposals of the Mediation Service very seriously and integrating them where possible. However, some recommendations require significant investment, which explains the delay. The Road Traffic Fines Service has already taken into account the following recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman: - the assistance centre and the back office have been strengthened to deal more quickly with complex issues and there is almost no waiting time for telephone calls; - citizens who prefer to do without the digital offer have the possibility to contact the help centre by telephone and to receive all the necessary information on paper; - at the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2019, the government decided to invest in a modernized operation for the management of driving fines. A new website is being created on which driving fines can be challenged in full digital form. As of April 4, 2019, citizens are automatically reimbursed within 30 days when an error was made when they were transferred, even if they did not correct this error on the website www.routieres.be. With regard to payment arrears, most of them have been settled in two major waves: February 2019 and April 2019. More than 75,000 people received a refund for files from April 2018 to March 2019. Since the reactivation of the automatic refund on April 4, 2019, another 39,000 people have been reimbursed. Although the beginnings of this large-scale multidisciplinary project have failed, we can say that the digitization of this process has proved to be a great success. The rate of perception and the number of files that the platform and the various partners can manage have increased significantly. Service to citizens has improved significantly. Since this digitisation, the financial execution of the driving fines has progressed enormously, while the administrative burden of the police has been considerably reduced. Thanks to this digitisation, even cooperation between the Justice and Finance FPS has clearly improved. In consultation with stakeholders such as the mediation service, we will continue the work constructively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u13	Minister, I thank you for your answers, which show that the reform has been well managed. She had initially experienced some difficulties, but the work made up for the shortcomings. I have no further questions at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u14	Madam President, I wanted to ask this question last week. I want to go back to the 25 years of PAG-ASA. On October 17, 2019, on the occasion of its 25th anniversary, the ASBL PAG-ASA organized a conference in the Senate with experts and front-line actors to take stock of assistance to victims of human trafficking in Belgium. In her speech, the Speaker of the Senate wished to recall that as early as 2012, the Senate had been addressing this phenomenon and had set up a working group specifically dedicated to this issue. After numerous hearings and an in-depth discussion of the issue, the Working Group on Trafficking in Human Beings had adopted general recommendations, including a strengthening of cooperation at Belgian level among all stakeholders working together in the areas of prevention, protection and repression. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What is the status of implementation of these recommendations with the various partners involved? What are the agreements concluded by Justice with field organisations in the care and support of victims? What dialogue is in place between the various federal public services, federated entities and local authorities to provide specific solutions to victims? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u15	My colleague, in the fight against trafficking in human beings, Belgium has for years adopted a multidisciplinary approach which has been steadily increasing. With regard to the three centres specializing in the reception and support of victims of trafficking, namely PAG-ASA, Payoke and Sürya, the Departments of Justice and Equal Opportunities provide an annual budget for the financing of the federal missions of these centres, i.e. the administrative and legal follow-up of victims. For their part, the federated entities finance the shelter and home component. The work of the specialized reception centres and the interaction with the authorities and other services in the context of the victim protection procedure are organised through the multidisciplinary cooperation circular on victims of trafficking in human beings and some aggravated forms of trafficking in human beings. A first version of the circular was adopted in 2008 and an updated version was adopted in December 2016. In addition, reception centres have been officially recognised by royal decree since 2013, which means that they are entitled to apply for residence permits from the Office of Foreigners for the victims they support, and that they can also claim civil damages in TEH's files. This recognition shall be renewed every five years in accordance with a specific procedure. The dialogue between the various actors takes place within the framework of the interdepartmental unit for the coordination of the fight against trafficking and its office. The federal entities, the Financial Information Processing Unit, CTIF and the specialized reception centres participate in this dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u16	I thank the minister for his answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u17	Minister, Monday, December 31, 2018 ended the amnesty period for the regularization of firearms. This operation began on 1 March 2018 under the law of 7 January 2018, which amended the law of 8 January 2006. Belgian owners of undeclared firearms had thus had ten months to comply with the Arms Act, without fear of sanctions. Individuals had a choice between several options: to separate themselves from their weapons, to seek authorization, to sell them or to neutralize them. Minister, almost a year after the deadline, how do you assess this measure and what conclusions do you draw in terms of its effectiveness? What types of problems have been identified? What measures have been taken, possibly in consultation with other ministers, for the offenders of this amnesty? What was the nature of the possible sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u18	Mr Kir, the amnesty period actually ended on 31 December 2018. With a view to proactively informing Parliament, I have taken the initiative to submit to it by mail of 30 April 2019 an interim report on the results of the reporting period for firearms, shippers and ammunition without authorisation. The report referred in particular to the regulatory framework within which declarations could be made and to the way in which citizens were informed of the amnesty period. As you know, the citizen had four options to regularize the situation. He could apply for permission or permission as a collector; the weapon or shipper could be neutralized by the firearms test bench; the weapon, magazine or ammunition could be transferred – free of charge or not – to a person authorized to hold them; the declarant could voluntarily abandon the weapon, magazine or ammunition for destruction at no cost to the declarant. The conclusions that can be drawn so far from this period are as follows. 37,667 statements were made by 15,596 persons. 13,409 weapons were destroyed and 5,685 tons of ammunition were destroyed. 59% of the statements were made in Wallonia, 39% in Flanders and 2% in Brussels. In my view, this is a positive development, as we have been able to significantly reduce the illegal flow of firearms into our territory, as well as the number of munitions. We can only welcome the effectiveness of this measure. The success of this operation has created additional work within the governors' departments due to the large number of declarations concerning applications for detention. But this difficulty is temporary given the short period of amnesty. Finally, I would like to point out that persons who did not declare their weapons before 1 January 2019 can, of course, be prosecuted for illegal possession of weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u19	Minister, thank you for the different elements of the answer that are quite enlightening. The operation is relatively successful; the figures show this. When you talk about percentages in the different regions, do you have an estimate of the total number of weapons held, in total, in Belgium? Is it on the basis of these figures that you say the balance sheet is very positive or relatively positive? Do you have a basis for comparison?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u20	I have an estimate, but I don't have it with me. We can send it to you in writing, but of course it is only an estimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u22	Mr Minister, with regard to transitional law as provided for in the Code of Companies and Associations, does the question arise whether the existing companies to which the Code of Companies and Associations applies from 1 January 2020 still require only the new names and abbreviations of that Code to be used in all documents, on the basis of companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u23	Minister, one of the difficulties with the new WVV is that the mandatory provisions will apply to existing companies from 1 January 2020, but there is no clear list of the mandatory provisions and of the provisions of supplementary law. The question arises as to whether all existing companies, in particular the hundreds of thousands of BVBAs, but also the many CVBAs that become BVSs, should be designated as BV from 1 January 2020 and should use that abbreviation in all documents of the company. First, according to the WVV, should the new legal forms and abbreviations be used by existing companies that have not opted for an opt-in from 1 January 2020? Secondly, do you share my view that, if this is the case, many companies are being rushed on costlessly by, among other things, having to print new stationery, invoices and name cards? Thirdly, would it not be better for existing companies to use the new legal forms and abbreviations as soon as they opt-in before 1 January 2020 and from that date when they adapt their statutes to the new WVV? For third parties, it would be immediately clear whether the company has established itself as a rule with the WVV.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u24	The law provides for a flexible transitional regime for existing companies and did not want to oblige them to immediately incur the costs associated with an amendment of the statutes. From 1 January 2020 onwards, the Code of Companies and Associations shall nevertheless apply to those companies and associations, even if they have not yet brought their statutes into line with the provisions of the Code (Article 39, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the Law of 23 March 2019 establishing the Companies and Associations Code). As is clear from the explanatory memorandum (Printed documents of Chamber 3119/001, page 349), existing companies may therefore use the new names of their legal form and their abbreviation from 1 January 2020, even if their statutes have not yet been adapted to the new Code. However, if they continue to use the old name of their legal form, e.g. private company with limited liability, or its abbreviation, BVBA, in documents based on their company, that name or abbreviation will automatically be read as the new name, private company, or its abbreviation, BV. Cooperative limited liability companies which do not comply with the definition in Article 6:1 of the Code of Companies and Associations shall be subject to the same special regime as companies whose legal status is abolished by the Code of Companies and Associations. They shall be automatically converted into a private company on 1 January 2024 if they have not yet voluntarily converted into another legal form on that day (Article 41, § 2 of the Law of 23 March 2019 establishing the Code of Companies and Associations). They remain governed in principle by the old Company Code during the transitional period (Article 41, § 1, of the Law of 23 March 2019 establishing the Code of Companies and Associations). They should therefore continue to use the name of limited liability cooperative company until they have been converted into another legal form.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the precise answer, which shows that there is flexibility in relation to our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The flexible transitional right to switch from the Corporate Code to the Corporate and Association Code is important for each company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u27	Madam President, Minister, the question arises as to the right of transition, as provided for in the Code of Companies and Associations. Subject to the so-called improper CVs' capital during the transitional period referred to in Article 41 of the Law of 23 March 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u28	Madam President, Mr Verherstraeten, the CVBAs are subject to a different transitional regime according to whether they meet the definition of CV in Article 6:1 of the WVV. For CVs as such, the general rule is that the fixed part of the capital and the statutory reserves of existing CVBAs according to the model of the capital in the BV from the date on which the WVV becomes applicable to them, i.e. 1 January 2020 or earlier in the case of opt-in, is automatically converted into a statutory non-available own funds account (Article 39 (2) second paragraph of the Law of 23 March 2019). By contrast, CVBAs which do not comply with the definition of CV in Article 6:1 of the WVV, the so-called improper CVs, are subject to the same regime as the legal entities whose legal form disappears (Article 41, § 1, paragraph 1, of the Law of 23 March 2019). Improper CVBAs will indeed, like the other legal forms referred to in Article 41, be automatically converted into another legal form on 1 January 2024, in this case the BV (Article 41, § 2, fifth indent), unless they have previously been voluntarily transposed (Article 41, § 4, of the Law of 23 March 2019). Until 1 January 2024, improper CVs remain governed by the Corporate Code (Article 41, § 1 of the Law of 23 March 2019) so that the rule of the conversion of capital into a statutory disposable own funds account does not apply to these improper CVs. It is true that, during the transitional period, these CVBAs must comply with the mandatory rules applicable to the legal form in which they will be automatically transposed, i.e. the BV, pursuant to the last indent of Article 41 (1) of the Law of 23 March 2019. For example, in the event of a conflict of interest, directors must respect the new obligation to abstain under Article 5:70 of the WVV, but these CVBAs shall remain cooperative companies and retain their fixed and variable capital, in accordance with the provisions of the old Corporate Code to which they remain subject during the transitional period. Therefore, application is excluded from the mandatory provisions relating to the assets and retirement and exclusion from the assets in the BV which no longer have capital (Book 5 Titles V and VI). The improper CVBAs who find this transitional arrangement too complex can, of course, already voluntarily convert into a BV before 1 January 2024, which can be done by a simple amendment of the statutes (Article 41, § 4 of the Law of 23 March 2019).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u29	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u30	Mr Minister, according to Article 7:92, fourth paragraph, last sentence, of the Code of Companies and Associations, such as the renewal of dual management in Article 7:108 of the same Code, no variable remuneration can be granted to independent directors. In that context, are stock options plans for independent directors in listed NSAs still allowed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u31	Mr Verherstraeten, according to Article 7:92, fourth paragraph, last sentence, of the new WVV (remembering the dual management in Article 7:108 of the WVV), no variable remuneration can be granted to an independent director. As can be seen from the explanatory memorandum (printed documents of Chamber No. 3119/1, page 228), on this point, the WVV seeks to align itself with the Recommendation of the European Commission of 15 February 2005 on the role of directors or supervisory directors of listed companies not involved in the day-to-day administration and on the committees of the Board of Directors or of the Supervisory Board. This concerns document 2005/162/EC Annex II, 1, c. The pleading further indicates that an inpayment of shares remains permitted. In that case, the independent director shall receive a fixed number of shares, the value of which shall at that time correspond to the remuneration due to him or her. The fact that these shares are still increasing in value is not an objection: the directors could also buy shares with their remuneration, which does not jeopardise their independence. This would be different with stock options, since they are exercised in function of the company's performance: in that case, part of the independent directors' remuneration depends on the company's performance and there is a risk that he or she will no longer be able to be independent of management, which has to perform those performances. Stock options are therefore indeed covered by the prohibition laid down in Articles 7:92 and 7:108 of the Code of Companies and Associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u33	Mr Minister, Article 29 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Una-via regime will enter into force very soon, on 1 January 2020. Paragraph 3 of that article states that the King must determine the criteria for the facts to be brought to light by the King's Attorney when there are indications of serious tax fraud involving criminal offences. Minister, has that royal decision already been sent to the Council of State for advice? Can the Royal Decree be approved in good time? If so, when? If not, what is the state of play and what timing do you have in mind? What criteria are laid down in the Royal Decree? What are the consequences for the fight against tax fraud if the Royal Decree does not enter into force from 1 January 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u34	Mrs De Wit, the draft royal decree to which you refer is on the agenda of the Council of Ministers on 13 December. It will then be sent to the Council of State for advice. The criteria defined in the draft are very closely in line with the proposals already included in the explanatory memorandum to the Law of 5 May 2019, which reformulates Article 29 and Article 29a of the Code of Criminal Procedure and introduces a new regime of una-via legislation. It is appropriate not to pursue a new policy in a period of current cases. The next government with full powers can decide at any time to amend the rules. Since the Council of State is not expected to deliver an opinion before 1 January 2020, I do not believe that any una-via consultation or mandatory notification of facts to the King's Attorney will be possible under Article 29 (3) between 1 January 2020 and the publication of the Royal Decree. However, the new Articles 29 (2) and 29a of the Code of Criminal Procedure will apply. I have already informed the President of the College of Attorneys General and the Attorney General whose powers include the fight against economic, financial and fiscal delinquency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a pity that the royal decree did not come to fruition in good time. If there's no una-via-consultation, we can't go forward with part of that law, which I think is a missed opportunity. I certainly hope it can be done quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 5501917C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55001982C by Mrs Özen is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u37	Mr Minister, I know that questions about individual dossiers are not obvious, but this dossier is very intriguing to me, not only for the sake of the name in the file, but also for the sake of the application of a concept. Last week, Michel Lelièvre was released on parole. That was a decision of the Criminal Court at the end of September. It was said at that time that he could qualify for release, provided that he would find a permanent place of residence. Since he was released last week, it seems that he has fulfilled that condition. The external legal status law lays down a number of general conditions to be met by a convicted person who is given a mode of execution, such as conditional release. One of them is the obligation to have a permanent address. If I were to believe the media, the person concerned would currently be staying at a homeless centre in Brussels. Is that in accordance with the general condition of having a fixed address, as laid down in the law on the external legal status of the convicted person, Minister? Is a homeless center valid as a permanent address? What other special conditions may have been imposed on the person concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u38	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my colleague. According to the press, the convict's permanent address is a homeless center. Is that in accordance with the condition of having a fixed address at the conditional release, quid a fixed address at an OCMW? Can you confirm that there is a permanent address in this file at a homeless center?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u39	Madam President, the person concerned was indeed released from prison last week as a result of a decision by the criminal court. The execution of the judgment was subject to a permanent residence, which was now realized. For reasons of privacy protection, I will not give further details about his whereabouts. The requirement to have a permanent residence is the ratio that the released convicted person must always be available for the purpose of control and that he can be summoned to this address by the police, the court and the courthouses. Both private residents and private or public institutions comply with that requirement in the law. In addition to the general conditions laid down by law, the criminal court also imposed individual conditions on him, such as the monitoring of psychological and social guidance, the monitoring of training or work and compensation for the victims. He has also been banned from contact and place, and he must refrain from alcohol abuse and drug use.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u40	Madam President, Minister, these are all conditions which are not illogical. I also understand that privacy is important and that there should be no mention of where the person is staying. I note that a public institution, I understand from your reply that a homeless centre is covered if a sufficient permanent residence was accepted by the criminal court. Allow me, however, to have a number of questions and concerns. After all, it is essential to be able to have a certain level of supervision in any way. I wonder whether such an institution is appropriate. I am just distracting from what you may have said. If public institutions are to be allowed to serve as a permanent address, we must examine the control that is possible there. I would be surprised if certain other criminal courts had taken a similar decision. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u41	Madam President, Minister, you say that his whereabouts now comply with the law. The future will have to show whether that person can be controlled at the necessary moments and whether that institution is in fact adequate for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u42	Minister, on 5 December, a prisoner was found dead in his cell in Saint Gillis' prison. He was found to have slit the throat with a metal cutlery knife, presumably by his cell mate. I have the following questions, Minister. Is it normal for prisoners to have metal cutlery in their cells? What steps will be taken to avoid such events in the future? How many cases of aggression using cutlery knives have been recorded in recent years? How many cases of murder and manslaughter were generally registered in the various Belgian prisons in 2018 and 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u43	Madam President, Minister, on the night of December 4-5, 2019, a detainee from Saint-Gilles prison died in his cell. All the actors close to the case seem to confirm that it is a homicide, even if an investigation is under way to determine the exact circumstances of his death. Minister, what can you tell us about the circumstances of this death? What has already been confirmed to you? What is currently in place at Saint-Gilles Prison to ensure the safety and psychological well-being of detainees? You can imagine that this is a traumatic event for them. What is in place to manage the outcome of such an event with prisoners and prison workers? What are the standard procedures for the death of an inmate? What preventive measures already exist? How do you plan to improve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u44	If the committee will allow me, I would like to ask my questions from the chair. [[Assent]] Mr Minister, my question concerns the same incident last week on Thursday 5 December 2019. Meanwhile, the committee, coincidentally the day after, visited that prison. It was a special case, which revealed that a prisoner with a metal cutlery knife was cut over the throat and the unsub was believed to be a cellmate. The incident raises a number of questions, and an investigation has rightly been launched. Nevertheless, I have the following questions. What are the circumstances in which the incident could occur? Were all the safety regulations respected? Has the risk profile been correctly assessed? What are the first results of an evaluation of the event? How do you explain that interned people, who have mental problems, have a metal cutlery in their cell? As exceptional as the event may be, what steps can be taken in the future to avoid similar occurrences? Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Bury, Mrs de Laveleye, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I would firstly like to express my condolences to the family and acquaintances of the prisoner. Although only two such dramatic facts have occurred in recent decades and the current incident is still being investigated by the court, the prison administration must be very vigilant and remain vigilant. Any person who is locked up shall be seen by the Director and a doctor as soon as possible and within a period of 48 hours. The psychosocial service also has a meeting with every incoming inmate. During these meetings, attention will be paid, among other things, to his psychological well-being and to the potential security risks. Evident should also pay particular attention to the behaviour of the detainees and, if necessary, report to the first-line workers, such as the penitentiary staff. The procedures have also been followed for the two persons concerned. They were locked in a duo cell on a wing that offers direct access to the infirmary. There was no indication prior to the facts that such facts could occur. The person against whom there is evidence of guilt was imprisoned on suspicion of theft and had previously shown no aggressive behaviour. Neither did the victim pose any danger or risk nor showed any particular weaknesses. It is not because a person is interned that he is a danger to himself or to third parties. The replacement of a metal cutlery with a plastic cutlery is decided in an individual and motivated manner, as is any other safety measure. The administration conducts an intensive administrative investigation in this area and examines the need for new measures. When incidents occur in a prison, inmates may seek assistance and support from the psychosocial and medical services. In addition, they are always able to contact the officers in their section. As far as staff are concerned, a local host team is standing by. It intervenes automatically after a traumatic incident and proactively contacts the staff concerned. In the case of a death, the place is delimited and the clues are saved. The Public Prosecutor's Office is immediately contacted and a criminal investigation is initiated on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u46	Minister, you are talking about two incidents in the last ten years. I'll be very honest, I thought the number of incidents was higher. There are still two too many, that is for sure, but this is a number that is not that bad. You said that they were screened within 48 hours and that all procedures were followed, and that it was considered individually whether metal should be replaced by plastic. I still haven't really gotten an answer, but I know there's an investigation into how that metal ended up in that cell, while everything was being followed. But I'm sure that'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. The Central Prison Supervision Board confirmed that the victim was interned and hemiplegic. This case leads us to wonder about the diversity of profiles sharing the same cell. In addition, staff union representatives point out that the interned victim should have been in the psychiatric annex, not in that wing. In our view, this event reminds us of two recurring issues. These are, first of all, the serious consequences of overcrowding and, second, the situation of interned persons in prison. An article published today indicates that the prison overcrowding rate has been the highest in four years, as the number of overcrowded individuals would reach 1,862. So we cannot expect a peaceful cohabitation. The Prison Administration Principles Act 2005, as well as the legal status of detainees, include obligations that the execution of the sentence or deprivation of liberty must be carried out in psychosocial, physical and material conditions that respect human dignity and that it is important to prevent the harmful and preventable effects of detention. Therefore, we can only see the enormous gulf between the principle of the law and the reality of the Saint-Gilles prison and the other prisons in our country. We can therefore only hope that the work will continue in the light of these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u48	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55002023C had been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u49	Madam President, Minister, in 2014, almost 40,000 complaints of partner violence were filed with the police. Over 16,000 cases of rape were recorded by the police between 2010 and 2014, or about 3,000 per year. These figures are cold in the back because they remain high and represent only the visible face of the iceberg. The black figure, i.e. unrecorded acts of violence, remains particularly high. In view of all these figures, it is our responsibility that 70% of complaints of violence between partners or ex-partners are now closed. And this despite the zero tolerance circular issued in 2006, which promised in some way to the victims that they would be listened to, and that the violence against them would not go unpunished. Undoubted improvements must therefore be supported in order to allow for more systematic prosecutions in this area. Mr Minister, this is obviously not the first time this question has been asked in this committee, but I would like to take a look at the situation with you. Could you please indicate the percentage of cases where there is no follow-up on partner violence? How do you explain this figure? Is the lack of financial and human resources clearly at stake? Is this a lack of awareness and training for magistrates? Why is not a reference magistrate exclusively dedicated to this matter? How can we improve the current handling and follow-up of complaints of domestic violence and thus avoid new tragedies? How to make the Zero Tolerance Circular truly binding?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u50	Madam President, Mrs Zanchetta, in the short period of time of this oral question, it is impossible to provide figures on domestic violence for which a "context" field is provided in Mach. An answer is being prepared on the basis of a similar written question from Mrs Van Cauter and can be communicated shortly. Nevertheless, it is always necessary to place the high rate of rankings without follow-up, which you refer to, in the appropriate context. Many complaints lead to a classification decision, but are not left unanswered. In some concrete cases, where relationships are the core of the problem, criminal prosecution is not considered the best approach. Some of the cases are closed without further action after finding that the situation has normalized, or after accompanying them through other channels. The judge shall assess what follow-up action can be taken on the basis of the results of the investigation. In this respect, it takes into account the Criminal Policy Directives, as included in Joint Directive COL 4/2006. There is a reference magistrate within each district and a reference police officer within each police area. But since a situation of domestic violence can occur at any time of the day or night, it is not always the police officer or magistrate of reference who intervenes in the emergency. Finally, the provision of specialized training remains fundamental for anyone who comes into contact with victims and perpetrators of domestic violence. The Judicial Training Institute offers training on domestic violence both in basic training and in the training of specialized magistrates. The Attorney General of Liège and the coordinator of the network of expertise "Criminality against persons" were heard by this commission on 20 November 2019. On this occasion, they were able to explain to you the work carried out by the network of expertise "Criminality against people" in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u51	Minister, thank you for that clarification. In any case, it is known that part of the rankings without complaints are mainly due to the fact that judges are overloaded with work. That aspect should not be overlooked. In any event, we will remain attentive to the development of this situation in order to avoid, precisely, other tragedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u52	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55002074C and 55002075C by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u53	Minister, during the last parliamentary term, the reform of the peace process was under way. The main objective of the Justice Plan, with a redrafting of the peace courts and the judicial cantons, was to increase the efficiency of the use of the buildings. After all, a large number of buildings have not always been used in the same way. The closure of 34 buildings would, on the one hand, improve the use of resources and staff and, on the other hand, save rent, maintenance and bills for utility connections. In this context it was also decided to transfer the municipalities of Hulshout and Herenthout to the canton of Heist-op-den-Berg. As a result, from 1 October 2019 the Mechelen department will be competent as a judicial authority. This has very serious consequences for the police areas of Zuiderkempen and Neteland of the municipalities concerned. The measure also affects the zonal security plan, the zonal security council, the judicial process and certainly many administrative work processes. By the way, no one was asking, not the police, nor the parish or the local authorities. The departmental prosecutors and the King's Attorney share their concerns and his requesting party to restore the initial situation, if possible. Mr Minister, given the impact on the functioning of our police zones, I have a number of questions on this matter. Firstly, are you aware of the problems and consequences of the decision on the operation of police zones and public prosecutors? Secondly, in the short term, the change leads to many questions and uncertainty. Communication about the change is also difficult. How are the talks between the police zones and the parquets going? In the meantime, what arrangements were made between the police zones and the parquet? What is the role of the FPS Justice Department? Thirdly, how many cases does the procedure change? What is the impact of the decision on the workload of the zones concerned? What measures will you take to reduce the workload? Fourthly, are you considering reinstating Herenthout and Hulshout under the district of Turnhout, which would be a major advantage for the operation of the police areas concerned? If not, which would be unfortunate, then what is the reason? Do you consider any other measures that will facilitate long-term operation? Fifthly, what other police areas are still facing the consequences of the reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u54	Ms Verhaert, the recast of the cantons concerned is a consequence of the law of 25 December 2017 on judicial canton reform. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That reform was carried out thoroughly, with all the presidents of the police courts and peace courts. There have been several consultations and several proposals have been received from the Presidents. Specifically for Herenthout, the shift was proposed by the then President of Antwerp. For a better distribution of the workload in the Turnhout region, it was proposed to transfer part of the canton of Herentals to Heist-op-den-Berg. The proposal received was followed on this point. The specific problems in the police area concerned have not been known to us so far. The organisation of police zones in the Antwerp district is not the responsibility of the judiciary. Justice has no criminal record at municipal level. As far as the parquet is concerned, Turnhout and Mechelen are both departments of the single parquet Antwerpen. For internal operation they are not legally bound to the cantons, but for the smooth handling of the files the court usually follows the classification of the court. The cantons do play a role in the territorial jurisdiction of the departments of the court of first instance Antwerp. A divisional rules of that court may provide a solution for the division of criminal proceedings between Turnhout and Mechelen, but since a recast of the current legislation threatens to shift the problem to civil proceedings, it requires a change of law from Article 186 of the Court's Code. The list in article 186 today limits the possibilities for a court to set up its departments according to the needs. I welcome the idea of deleting that list, provided that the necessary guarantees of access for the judges and a balance between the departments are ensured. In the arrondissements of East and West Flanders, Liège and Hainaut, municipalities have also moved to another branch of the court. No problems have been reported there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand you share a number of concerns. We will continue to look at how we can deal with these issues further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u56	Europol's report on drug crime in the European Union addresses the major problem in the port of Antwerp as a hub for drugs coming from outside the EU, such as cocaine, but also the production of synthetic drugs in the border region. Drugs labs, dumping, discharges are a problem that we face almost every day in the Antwerp Kempen, and also in the Limburg Kempen. At the beginning of this year, as Minister, you announced a Kempen-Maas plan to tackle drug crime in the border region. You promised to strengthen the prosecution, the police, the municipal services and the administrative services. The various public prosecutors are also stepping up the fight against drug crime. As of April, anyone can contact the Anonymous Drug Reporting Point Limburg to report suspicious signals about criminal drug production in Limburg. At the beginning of 2019, a bill was also adopted to cover the costs of cleaning up drug labs and placing drugs on the market. Previously these costs were borne by the owner or the government, which was often a heavy burden on municipal finances. However, the effects on the environment and the costs of repairing the environmental damage are not included. The regions remain competent to do so. Minister, what progress has been made on the implementation of the draft law on judicial costs in criminal matters and equivalent costs? Are the costs of cleaning up a drug lab already below court fees? There would be consultation with the Regions to determine who will bear the costs of the environmental damage. What's the outcome of this meeting? How is the Anonymous Drug Reporting Point Limburg evaluated? How many tips did you get? How many of these tips led to finding a drug lab or a dumping site? Finally, what other measures have you taken in the framework of the Kempen-Maasplan? What measures are you planning to take? And what means are provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u57	The Royal Decree implementing the new Law of 23 March 2019 on Legal Costs and Criminal Matters will be submitted to the King for signature this week. It shall enter into force with the law on 1 January 2020. The cost of cleaning up drug labs will then be included in the court fees. However, the cost of repairing the environmental damage associated with drugs, precursors and related waste or the expenditure on their removal will not be a court cost if they were not claimed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Following consultation with the Regions is desirable and should lead to a circular from the College of Attorneys General clarifying the Royal Decree. However, these consultations should take place on the basis of the final texts and in the presence of all relevant actors. As for the anonymous hotline installed in Limburg, the King's Attorney of Limburg informed me that 130 calls were already launched from April to October on plantations, drug labs, dumping and other suspicious phenomena. These reports led to the discovery of two drug labs and five cannabis plantations. There are 48 more investigations in progress. Several reports also covered dealing and drug use. Optimum cross-border cooperation with the Netherlands is crucial to effectively tackle drug criminality on the Kempen-Maas axis. Although many cooperation structures already exist, police and judicial, bilateral and wider regions with Germany, Luxembourg and France, there was still a lack of a ministerial coordination structure. That is why, together with my colleague from the Interior and the Dutch Minister for Justice and Security, I have set up a bilateral ministerial consultation with a focus on cross-border crime in our border region. At the first meeting on 2 December last, the administration of Justice and Home Affairs, the police and the prosecutors of both countries were also present. A number of concrete challenges related to the exchange of judicial information and cooperation were discussed in an open spirit of cooperation. These consultations will continue in the future and will lead to concrete measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the draft law is already so far advanced and that the drugs reporting point in Limburg is clearly doing its job. In the Kempen, both in the province of Limburg and in the province of Antwerp, we clearly have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u59	Madam President, Minister, the 2017 edition of the radiography of the Brussels Bar shows a feminization of the cohorts of law graduates and although 45.9% of lawyers are women, they are largely a minority among lawyers over 40 years of age as well as in positions of responsibility and earn on average half of the salary received by their colleagues. In the Judicial Order, the statistics of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men are consistent with those of the SPF Justice. While we can be pleased that a little more than half of the judges are actually magistrates, as I have read on your website, they remain a minority in the higher levels of the judiciary as well as in the positions of Chief of Staff. The general assembly of lawyers.be has three women out of twelve members of the French-speaking and German-speaking bar associations in Belgium. With regard to the board of directors, he had only one woman out of nine directors and had never met a woman in his presidency in 20 years. Mr Minister, it is clear that the judicial world remains deeply unequal. Can you indicate what is being put in place to combat the phenomenon of premature termination of the careers of women lawyers and magistrates? What is in place to ensure equal pay and gender equality at all levels (judicial, judicial, judicial)? Could you also tell me when the next radiographs of the bars are planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u60	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, the judiciary has been feminizing for years. On the basis of the 2018 figures, I can tell you that at the level of first instance, 56 per cent of the total number of professional magistrates in the seat and 57 per cent of the public prosecutor's office are currently women. At the course level, half of the counsellors are women. At the Court of Cassation, 30 per cent of the advisers are also members. It is therefore only a matter of time for this trend to be consolidated in the highest court. Recently, a woman was appointed as the first President of the Court of Cassation, the country's highest magistrate. The conditions of appointment are obviously objective and equal for all. Treatments are also legally fixed and make no distinction between genders. The OBFG and OVB Orders and their bars operate independently from the Minister of Justice in relation to the composition of these bodies. I therefore rely on their information. For French-speaking and German-speaking bar associations, there has been a steady increase since 2007 in the percentage of women lawyers, which for the first time exceeds 50%. This increase illustrates a constant feminization of the profession. The OBFG does not have any information on any wage differences. As the profession of lawyer is a liberal profession, the College has no jurisdiction to impose any rule in this area. With regard to the representation of women in the bodies, this year the General Assembly of the OBFG adopted an amendment to its internal regulations providing that, for each vacant post, the bars would ensure that, as far as possible, at least two candidates of different sex were presented. The Order of Flemish Bars and Local Bars is also moving towards a wider presence of women in the organs and in key positions. In 2015, 4 out of 10 batons were women, while in 2003 there was not one in 14 batons. The OVB ensures a policy of non-discrimination not only in the gender relationship but also to the extent of the possibilities to ensure a representativeness of any form of difference. Mrs Schlitz, therefore, take courage: the future will be very beautiful!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u61	Minister, thank you for that answer. In fact, it is not with courage that equality is achieved, but by taking action. Indeed, there is a tendency towards feminization. We often say that we can make the numbers say what we want. If we see a feminization of cohorts leaving university, we find that at age 30 and 40, the number of women in the legal profession or places in the judiciary declines. This is all the more visible the higher the hierarchy of the judicial system. It seems to me important not to hide our face in relation to this phenomenon and to take it by arm-body. A woman has been appointed to the Court of Cassation and a quota has been established in the Constitutional Court. Other quotas should be introduced at other levels. An association, Fem&L.A.W., made up of women lawyers from different backgrounds, works to support and propose solutions for the feminization of the professions of lawyers and magistrates. The association was recently invited by the board of directors of lawyers.be who realizes gender issues. She made a series of recommendations, which I made a selection of recommendations that could concern us: - propose lectures by and for lawyers on equality in their own professional environment; - to produce and disseminate documents on the numbers and rights of women at work broadly, in the form of a campaign, for example; - carry out substantive studies to refine the diagnoses currently too limited in view of the multifunctional nature of the non-representation of women in the legal world. This would complement the information we have here because, as you said, we do not have the data on the wage gap, for example. Without figures, we cannot properly understand the problems. The association proposes to formulate concrete proposals such as scheduling and career planning, setting up a day-care centre within the courthouse to better reconcile work and family life, all of which allow women to flourish in their careers throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u62	Mrs. Schlitz, may I ask you to keep the reply a little shorter? We will soon have a decoy as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u63	Madam Chair, Minister, harassment involves different forms of harassment, each of which deserves special attention. In cases where harassment is committed by a spouse or ex-spouse, this issue is intimately linked to that of domestic and ex-marital violence. According to a recent study of women victims of domestic violence, 9 times out of 10, harassment is almost constant at the time of the breakdown. The study also shows that these harassing behaviors persist or even increase over time. Indeed, 79 per cent of the respondents were still subjected to violence after a separation. The rigorous monitoring of harassment complaints is therefore essential in order to protect women from violence. Belgium is committed to combating harassment through the Istanbul Convention, which states in its article 34 that "the parties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to criminalize the intentional act of committing, on several occasions, a threat of conduct directed towards another person, leading the latter to fear for his or her safety". Minister, harassment is already criminally punished in Belgium. What other measures are being taken to effectively combat harassment between spouses or ex-spouses? How many complaints of harassment by a spouse or ex-spouse are filed each year in our country? How many of them are classified without follow-up, and for what reasons? What is the gender distribution among victims and perpetrators? What are the accompanying and follow-up measures for victims of harassment? Is there a specific plan to help them file a complaint? When acts of harassment are under way, what measures have been taken to protect victims of a move to a violent act during the months or years preceding the trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u64	Madam President, Mrs Schlitz, in connection with this oral question, I am not in a position to provide detailed statistical data. The issue of harassment requires an integrated approach, with criminal law being the ultimate solution to enforce compliance. In this regard, prevention with a view to securing high-risk victims is crucial. In this context, it is essential to take measures such as the temporary prohibition of residence and contact, similar conditions imposed in the case of conditional release during pre-trial detention or parole in execution of the sentence. In addition, measures have been taken to ensure that local police, legal assistants and magistrates can exercise better control over compliance with the conditions imposed – for example, the extension of SIDIS-suite. In addition, I refer to the initiatives under development – following Mrs Matz's proposal for a law on harassment alarm – including the continued deployment of the Family Justice Centers, as well as an active form of chain approach and case coordination. Psychological violence, including harassment, is also addressed in Circular COL 4/2006 on Criminal Policy on Domestic Violence. The circular also focuses on the reception, care and support of victims of domestic violence. Finally, the network of expertise "Criminality against people" is currently working on a risk assessment tool which aims precisely to try to identify the most at risk situations from a transition to a major homicide-type act. This is a project under evaluation after a test phase in several police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u65	Minister, I'm glad you're working on new tracks. We have mentioned them recently in plenary. From the ground today, women who are being harassed feel really poor and unsupported to stop it. However, the lawyers of these women tell me that a simple reminder to the law sometimes allows to calm the individual who harasses. In many cases, these individuals are not heard and a sense of impunity and impotence is developing. It is really essential to systematically audition the perpetrators of harassment in order to remind them of what they are exposed to by pursuing such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u66	Minister, can you tell me how gender issues are addressed by the Judicial Training Institute. What topics do they relate to? Are they addressed in a cross-cutting way or provided through specific training? Are they covered by optional or compulsory training? How often? More generally, can you indicate in which slots the Institute's training courses are given? Are compulsory residential sessions organized? Is there a childcare system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u67	Mrs Schlitz, gender issues are addressed by the Judicial Training Institute (IFJ) in three training courses. First, there is the fight against hate crimes and discrimination. This is a two-day training which is mandatory for judicial trainees as part of their initial training and is organised annually. For magistrates, it is optional as there is currently no requirement for continuing training for magistrates on duty. Secondly, there is basic training in sexual crime. Thirdly, there is extensive training in sexual crime. The last two training courses are day-long training courses which are organized every two years in alternation. In general, the IFJ courses consist of six hours of courses – from 9.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. or 5 p.m. There are also residential sessions, some of which are mandatory, e.g. seminars for judicial trainees, and others whose residential character is an option, e.g. specialized training for future investigating judges or for future judges of the Family and Youth Court. There is no childcare system, but sometimes very young children – under one year of age – reside in the seminar centres for the duration of the training, in the care of the spouse or partner of the participating trainee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic072x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answers. A series of training recommendations were issued by Fem&L.A.W. during their meeting with lawyers.be. One of their suggestions would be for women on maternity leave to reduce the number of mandatory hours of training in proportion to the number of months spent on maternity leave in the year in question. They suggest training on the judicial treatment of violence against women, which would be provided to all. They also suggest parity among those involved in training. Finally, the abolition of compulsory residential training seems to be an option in the sense that these trainings cause greater difficulties for women than for men. Such training can sometimes be one of the factors that discourage women from continuing to work.
