ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of December 11, 2019, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the following bills: - the draft law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field in relation to cross-border reporting arrangements, No 791/1; - the draft law amending the Act of 22 December 2009 on the general excise regime transposing Directive (EU) 2019/475, No 766/1; - the draft finance law for the fiscal year 2020, No. 793/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 11 December 2019, I propose that the following draft laws be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation relating to obliged cross-border arrangements, No. 791/1; - the draft law amending the Law of 22 December 2009 on the general system of excise duties transposing Directive (EU) 2019/475, No. 766/1; - the draft Financial Act for the financial year 2020, No. 793/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u3	Colleagues, you are not obliged to attend the meeting. If you'd like, can you go outside and have a conference on anything, but can we agree that those who stay in the hemisphere will follow the meeting? Is that a good deal? Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Germany has just relaunched an important financial transaction tax (FTT) issue. Mr Minister, let me tell you that when I was a Member of the European Parliament under the former legislature, no one understood Belgium's change of position on the introduction of this tax on financial transactions. Considered a pioneer in international taxation with the Tobin tax, Belgium passed into the clan of opponents. As you know, since the 2000s, our country has been part of the European vanguard to tax speculation and stock market movements. It is a just fight in the name of tax justice because, as we all know, speculation is a weapon to enrich itself and not to feed the real economy. In 2012, Belgium continued with a number of other countries (France, Germany, etc.) within the framework of enhanced cooperation to move faster in comparison with other Member States which preferred to protect their stock markets rather than to be part of a movement of fair taxation and fair redistribution of wealth. In 2014, "bardaf!", It is the embard: Belgium is pointed at for its particularly noticeable volte-face. We became a brake in the group of eleven because we had clearly contributed to the failure of the project. Mr Minister, there is no question here of a small project since the evaluations put the TTF at around EUR 35 billion and when we see the global challenges facing the Union (climate challenge, international solidarity, social policies, industrialization of our companies), we need that money. Since Germany has just relaunched this enhanced cooperation – our group believes that the proposal is interesting – I would like to know, Mr Minister, how Belgium will react to the announcement of this proposal. Are there meetings already scheduled to discuss this text? Does Belgium intend to include this point in the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework in order to identify new financial resources for the implementation of new policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u5	Mr Bayet, thank you for your question. Indeed, you do the history well. Belgium is one of the eleven countries participating in enhanced cooperation, because it turned out that the 28 countries could not agree. We clearly want to keep the original objective of a tax on financial transactions, known as the Tobin tax, with the aim of reducing negative speculation while maintaining our country's competitive position. If Belgium introduced such a tax, but not the Netherlands and Luxembourg, the impact would be serious. In the discussions, quite a few countries use the same arguments as Belgium, i.e. to prevent this tax from having unwanted negative effects, e.g. on pension funds; then to avoid this tax being transformed into double taxation. In fact, we started with the idea of a Tobin tax. For now, what's on the table is exactly a tax on stock exchange transactions. In Belgium, we already have a tax on stock exchanges, at a fairly high level. If this were introduced, either it would be double taxation, or it would have a rather serious budgetary impact, because Belgian revenues would be transferred to the European level. Is Belgium a brake? No. Belgium, clearly, is not a brake. We stayed at the table all the time, because we feel that being at the table allows us to influence the discussion. I'm pretty clear about that. I'm not opposed to a Tobin tax, but it really has to be that. What is on the table now is the doubling of a tax that already exists in Belgium. I don't see the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u6	Minister, thank you for that answer. We are not the only ones who want to move forward. As you know, France has already advanced on its own. We can join her. Germany is also making progress now. However, Minister, the Tobin tax is not just a tax. And again, we're talking about 0.01 to 0.1% here. It is simply an ethical requirement to place all incomes on an equal footing and not to tax only labour income, especially on a sector that is at the origin of the 2008 crisis. I would remind you that we have still given EUR 4,600 billion for this sector. So it would be a fair return to things that he could also participate in life in society. We must therefore continue to be a leader and defend this Tobin tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u7	Mr Vanbesien, I would not be distracted. The theme is the increase in the deductibility of the salary car. Your time has not yet come, Mr Vanbesien.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u8	Mr President, I have not missed my entrance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u9	It wasn't a deal, was it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u10	No, it wasn't a deal. Mr Minister, about 12% of workers in our country are given a car as part of their employer's wage package, with or without a tank card. Both the employee and the employer pay a small amount of tax on that package, which is much lower than the ordinary tax on the salary. In January, that small piece of tax will become even smaller for the second year in a row. The tax advantage will therefore be increased. The reason for this is that the average CO2 emissions of the new cars sold last year are higher than the year before. So our fleet emits more CO2 than the year before, and the system simply stimulates it. That's the world upside down, isn't it? That's hallucinating. At that time, the legislator assumed that year after year the CO2 emissions of cars would be reduced thanks to technological evolution, but he did not take into account the behaviour of the people who might move in a different direction. Apparently we all buy more cars that emit a lot of CO2, like SUVs. Technological progress is very important, Minister, but it must go hand in hand with a change in behaviour and it is the legislator's job to control behaviour. Minister, do you agree with me that this is an undesirable and perverse effect of the law? Do you intend to take action to resolve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u11	Mr President, Mr Vanbesien, as you point out, the benefit of all kinds, which is actually taxed as an employee, is calculated for a car on the basis of three criteria: CO2 emissions from the car in question, the catalog value of that car and the reference CO2 emissions from cars during that year. I'll spare you the exact formula. Recently, reference CO2 emissions have increased for two reasons. The first reason is dedieselation, a policy whereby, in order to avoid the fine dust as an undesirable effect of diesel engines, it pushes towards petrol engines, which have slightly higher CO2 emissions. The second element is a new calculation. The former NEDC calculation has been replaced by the new NEDC 2.0 calculation, which is better suited to the reality of emissions and appears to be higher than in the previous version. A future government will certainly have to adjust its policy on company cars and payrolls, in my view on three elements. Firstly, some perverse effects must be avoided. What you indicate is an example of a perverse effect. We are applying the existing law today, but its results are not in line with the intentions. Secondly, we must ensure that there are no changes in existing contracts, whereas what is happening now is an adjustment within existing contracts. Thirdly, we must ensure that we use the commercial and salary vehicles to speed up the greening of our entire fleet. The average age of cars in our country is much lower than in other countries. One of the reasons is that there are many company cars, which are often renewed. We must make sure that commercial vehicles are absolutely more pro-active, and this can be done by fiscally favouring cars with lower consumption compared to cars with higher consumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know that our group's analysis of the problem of pay cars is shared by many other parties. In particular, this is a sum of three problems: a problem of particulate matter and air pollution caused by CO2, a problem of congestion, and a problem of unfair taxation. Our group would like to make progress in all three areas. We want to pay employees in euros instead of diesel. We do not want to subsidise traffic jams. But we don't want to dawdle either. We will support any initiative taken to work on one or two of these sub-problems. We will cooperate, even more so, and we will take initiatives ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u13	Mr President, Minister, people who take up their supplementary pension before reaching the statutory retirement age have to pay a tax of 16.5%, while others have to pay a lower rate of 10% of taxes. However, there are also people who start working very early, for example at 18 years, and reach a full career before reaching the statutory retirement age. It is therefore logical that they should also pay 10% instead of 16.5% when taking up their supplementary pension. To make that possible, the law was amended in February. However, it appears that this law is still not being implemented in practice. We get massive reactions from people who say that the Pension Service and the FPS Finance refer to each other and that there is uncertainty as to how to define the concept of 'full career'. Should this be done according to the calculation we use to determine whether someone is entitled to retire, or should it be done according to the formula we are now using to calculate the pension amount? In the absence of clarity, insurance companies only apply the strictest rule and often apply 16.5 %, whereas it should actually be 10 %. That's gonna save you a lot. A person who has saved a pension amount of EUR 75,000 pays too much in this way. Minister, what is the state of play? Are you going to sit down with Minister Bacquelaine to sort that out? Will you provide a circular? If people have paid too much tax, which is unjust, will you ensure that it is returned automatically? I hope this will happen. If not, what other solution do you provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u14	Mrs Lanjri, first of all I would like to make it clear that the FPS Finance and Pension Service did not just look at each other. It's not an obvious question. This week we had a discussion between the two cabinets and the two administrations. There will also be a circular to clarify for the end of the year. Let me now turn to the substance of your question. In order to benefit from the tax favor regime, the notion of "full career according to current pension legislation" is essential. We have completed this notion, together with the Federal Pension Service, and it must be understood as a career of 45 years of which each year fulfils the conditions for eligibility for the early retirement pension, that is to say for employees 45 years of at least 104 days worked each year and for self-employed persons 45 years of at least two kartals paid a contribution each year. There was therefore a lack of clarity, but it will be clarified by means of a circular. With regard to your question concerning people who would be unduly burdened, I will sit with my administration and see how we can ensure that the administrative burden for those people can be reduced to a minimum. An automatic refund seems to me to be the preferred solution. I will call on the administration to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u15	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am glad that a solution has finally been found. I can send you the many e-mails that I received on that. There was definitely a discussion. Finally, your administration and Secretary Bacquelaine's have come together. There's still a solution just in time before the end of the year. I am also pleased that you take my proposal to heart and want to examine it. People who have wrongly paid too much because there was uncertainty will therefore prefer to have that money returned automatically, as I have proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister None has been excused until 3 p.m. He would normally be the first to sit here on the 'pain bench', but we'll wait for him until 3:00. Minister De Block may now come and answer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u17	Mrs. De Block, yesterday we received the latest figures on your asylum policy. When I look at it, I can't help but come here and ask you what the hell you're doing. After all, what does it turn out to be? Last month there was an increase of no less than 26% compared to November last year. By the end of November, 2,000 asylum applications have already been lodged more than in the whole year 2018. That was a disaster year, though. We therefore have one of the highest numbers of asylum applications from all over Europe. There are a lot more than in arrival country Italy. Dear people, hold on, because apparently it's still not enough. The lovers of mass migration, including your government partners, Mrs De Block, have adopted a resolution to bring even more asylum seekers here. We will even fly them in from countries that have fewer asylum applications per capita than Belgium. As if that weren't bad enough, hundreds of so-called asylum seekers flew in visa-free from El Salvador in November. Their arrival cannot be attributed to war, Mrs. De Block. They're not war fugitives, they're opportunists, who benefit from your mischief. I do not point the finger at those people, Mrs De Block, I point the finger at you and your mischief. There's no one else responsible for that abuse of our hospitality but you. Will you take the necessary steps to suspend visa-free travel from those countries? Will you put the resolution of your government partners next to you or will you fly asylum seekers from other countries, even if there are fewer asylum applications per capita in those countries than in Belgium? What will you finally do for the effective return of more rejected asylum seekers and illegal immigrants? You may talk about return, but as long as you don't put these theories into practice, our streets won't be safer on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u18	Mr Van Langenhove, you must stay within the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u19	Mr Van Langenhove, I thought you'd ask a cool question about lovers. The question had started well, but it didn't last. Indeed, Belgium is currently among European leaders in terms of the number of asylum applications per capita. I have already mentioned here, and you may not have been present at that time, because there are still many multiple applications. The secondary migratory flows, i.e. people travelling from countries at the external borders of the European Union, also play a role in this. The current increased influx is therefore not limited to the countries at the external borders of the European Union alone. With regard to the Malta Declaration and the external aspects, I should like to point out that I myself have expressed the Belgian position, namely that Belgium cannot participate in the mechanism that is on the table today. I have also explained this position to my fellow ministers. [[Applause on the N-VA banks]] Thank you. There are exactly other lovers in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u20	That's an important signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u21	In any case, therefore, we are constructive in the search for a global and structural solution with a fair burden-sharing. In our opinion, our country is doing more than its fair share in relation to most other European Member States, including Italy, where migrants and refugees covered by the said Maltese agreement would be included. You asked me what I'm doing about the situation. We are working on solutions to the multiple applications, of course within my capabilities as Minister in a government of current affairs, and certainly also for secondary migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u22	Mrs. De Block, you stayed perfectly within the time, although you were interrupted by the lengthy applause at the N-VA banks. I give the floor to Mr Van Langenhove, who has one minute to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u23	Mrs De Block, you are talking about asylum migrants travelling to Belgium from the European Union's border countries. At the same time, however, your government colleagues are deciding not only to allow them to travel from Europe's border, but also to take charter flights from Europe's border to Belgium, so simply to bring them here by plane and then to make them disappear into Belgian illegality. So there seems to be still a lot of disagreement in the government. I suggest that you dissolve them as quickly as possible and give us ready wine. I have not received an answer to my remarks about visa-free travel from a number of Latin American countries to Belgium, which, in my view, causes asylum fraud. Once again, I have not received an answer to my question about the failed return policy, which cannot even be called a return policy. So I will probably have to question you about this in the next few weeks. It is urgent time to reduce the inflow and increase the outflow. Mrs. De Block, do something.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u24	Madam Minister, on 1 January the new legislation on the single permit or single permit came into force. Today people can apply for a work permit and a residence permit in one go. One document will be delivered for this purpose. It was the intention of the European legislator to make things faster and more efficient if we want to get specific workers to our countries in the context of labour migration. Unfortunately, the opposite is true in our country. It's slowing down and lumbering. There are different consequences. Municipal authorities and companies say that their employees cannot come here because they do not have the required documents. There are jobs at companies but the employees are abroad and cannot start. Or people should not continue to work because a permit was not issued, which means that the company must be shut down. That's inefficient management. The sixth state reform has ensured that the Länder are responsible for everything related to the issue of the work permit. We are still responsible for the residence permit. That is why it is important that the DVZ quickly gets to work on the residence permit and security control. You announced that you would start a working group at the beginning of June. I know they've come together a few times. It has started a little slow, probably due to the Flemish negotiations. You also announced that you would roll out a digital platform, but we continue to get signals that it is not enough. Madam Secretary, what conclusions did the working party reach? When will the digital platform be rolled out? Have you undertaken specific cases with the DVZ in order to speed up its operation? Do you think, like me, that it's not enough? What measures will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u25	Mr Demon, the single permit that links a work permit to a residence permit is an important step and was indeed a tough delivery. The working group held a number of meetings. The work there was delayed by the formation of government at other levels. Very concrete and practical slopes were proposed there. We are still waiting for the green light of all the parties involved, but we believe that progress can be made quickly. The electronic platform has two objectives: firstly, to allow the processing of applications through the digital platform and, secondly, to allow all the services involved, including in the case of checks at the yard, to know who has a licence and who has submitted an application. Special technical working groups of the RSZ and the Department of Foreign Affairs are working on this. We also strengthened the staff on that service from 6 July to reduce the delay at DVZ. That deadline has already been reduced from eight weeks to four to two weeks. Sometimes things also remain at the level of the Regions. Sometimes we have to work on it there too. It is therefore essential that the two levels of policy improve together and coordinate procedures. We have already made a great deal of progress. There are indeed people who have to wait longer, but there are also those who are already here before they make the application, which cannot be done. There are examples of this. We are doing everything we can to reduce this deadline, to turn the single permit into a working instrument, because that is good for our companies and our economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to summarise. You still want to work on it, you have working groups and the states need to step up their efforts. That is all well and good, but a government in current affairs could also make progress on this issue. I ask you to show your teeth and show your strength so that this can be resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u27	Madam Minister, I am pleased to read that Securex has conducted a survey on long-term sick people who want to work. It is evident: of the people who are absent for more than a month, more than 32 % would have wanted or could have worked. This even applies to 8% of people who are sick for less than a month. What you certainly do, and what we advocate as a party, is that people want to work. It is a pity, then, that the system does not encourage this. Good measures have been taken in the previous legislature, such as reintegration routes, whereby doctors, workers, employers, health insurance funds and health professionals consult each other. Opportunities for adapted work are being explored. There is the progressive resumption of work that has been reformed: if you are ill and you work a fifth, you will not lose any benefit. That is very good and I am very pleased with it. The number of Belgians working during a period of illness has doubled over a period of five years, and that is very positive. If we really believe that we need to get people who want to work to work, the question is how to make the reintegration projects work even better. How can we get the companies involved in the reintegration projects? Often a reintegration project is not the most efficient and must be followed up very intensively. Companies with a fair and good commitment should not become victims of this. What measures are possible to influence the prescription behaviour of doctors on the absence periods, so that they do not stretch them too long? Do you see salvation in flexible doctor's notes? For example, can long-term unemployed people, who are clearly unable to re-integrate into the same company in view of the incident, not skip this process and start immediately with another company or look for opportunities that are much more likely to succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u28	Thank you, Mr Verhelst. The study of Securex first and foremost clearly shows that we do not often think in terms of 100 % disabled or 100 % fit to work. A long way has come. Hence the introduction of reintegration pathways whereby we opt for tailor-made guidance and to find out what people can do. The survey also points to possible thresholds for potential workers. There, the doctor's opinion was taken as the biggest threshold for resumption of work. That is why there is a working group working to support doctors, which is the average duration of disability in certain pathologies. This is a reference framework for the physician, which can always take into account the individual situation of the patient. The employee can also approach the employer for a tailor-made course such as part-time work or other work. It is certain that there is also a need for consultation between the treating doctor, the consulting doctor, the occupational doctor, the employee and the employer. This is encouraged in the routes. So there really was a paradigmashift in the last five years. We're thinking of going further. As you say, we can modernise the certificate of incapacity for work, in the form of a fit note. We can take more account of how the patient recovers and what else he can do. A number of things about our reforms are still at cruising speed. We can see that, year after year, there is a significant increase in the number of authorisations to be partially started. The number of retraining courses under the guidance of the doctor is also in the elevator. The increase in the number of long-term sick people has been stopped, but there is certainly still work to be done. We shall continue on this path. I will not say: the way forward, because it sometimes goes backwards. We will certainly continue to work as we are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u29	Thank you for your answer. I would like to take up the most important question. It is very important that those companies which cooperate positively and want to give all the opportunities for reintegration should certainly not be victimized by inefficiency or by more administrative follow-up, or I do not know much. We need to get out of the black and white story. When someone wants to work, it should not be a question of not working or working. There are a lot of modalities between them. Thank you for the path we have taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u30	Thank you, Mrs Verhelst. You have remained perfectly within the speaking time, you have even half a minute left.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u31	Madam Secretary, I'll take you to 2015. In 2015, it was published that the safety of Rilatine, the best known drug for the treatment of ADHD that existed at that time for fifty years, had not yet been scientifically proven. When my group pointed this out to you, you agreed to this and indicated that you would take action. I found another article about this. You would employ an expert who would streamline the diagnosis and treatment of ADHD. You also noted that there were provincial differences. Madam Secretary, last week I received a lot of regulations for Rilatine and distractions in my pharmacy in Ghent. There are quite a lot of students living in Ghent and it would be surprising if all these students had suddenly been diagnosed with ADHD. I suspect that this is an occasional use of Rilatine during the block period; we are in the exam period. I also checked with the wholesalers. The supply of Rilatine is dwindling right now. That worries me and raises the question whether children with the diagnosis of ADHD, who therefore need Rilatine, have sufficient access to the medicine during this period. I am referring, by the way, to a newspaper article on this matter today. Even though I understand that there is performance pressure on parents and students, the occasional use of Rilatine worries me. Madam Secretary, what are the experts' findings? Is there still a provincial diversity in prescribing behaviour? Are the doctors sufficiently sensitised with regard to the occasional prescription? If not, how will you deal with this problem in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u32	Mrs Depoorter, there has indeed been work on detachment, sensitisation and correct prescriptive behaviour. As a pharmacist, you know the legislation on this, there are two red lines on Rilatine. They are not there as decorations, they are on it because it cannot be prescribed. There are two indications: ADHD and narcolepsy. The latter is much rarer. Blocking help isn't an indication. That is also right, because there is no evidence that Rilatine increases intellectual capacities and allows students to study better. On the contrary, the side effects are known: agitation, insomnia, stomach problems and risk of addiction and psychosis. It makes studying even more difficult. It is therefore an improper use of this product. Doctors, parents and students must be aware of this. In addition, everyone must also assume their responsibilities. Rilatine is prescribed by a doctor; that is the first person responsible. The second person responsible is the pharmacist who supplies the medicine. Pharmacists who, as in Ghent, find that there are regulations coming in from some doctors with benevolent prescribing behaviour, can occur. As regards the unavailability, I can tell you that there are many different packages of Rilatine on the market and there are also generics. At present, the FAGG has no indication of unavailability. For patients who have the right indications, the availability of the medicine must be assured. From the pharmacies' point of view, therefore, I understand the concern. When you go back in time, you will find my first work in this respect not in 2015, but already in 1999, at the time of then Minister Magda Aelvoet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u33	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is true that this is a shared responsibility between the prescriber and the pharmacists who deliver the medicine. Now, I invite you to tell some concerned parents, who want to make sure that their student gets through the difficult exam period, that they do not deliver the medicine and refer it back to the doctor. Well, that's very difficult, isn't it? Health inspectors visit the pharmacies and check, among other things, the anaesthetic registers, which also allow them to determine whether or not a particular doctor prescribes too much. The responsibility is therefore also with the inspectors. It is and remains a concern that we must share from the government. On the one hand there is performance pressure, on the other hand we cannot go along with the banalisation of the use of medication. It is about young people and I want to prevent young people from starting to think that there is a pill for every problem or that even a pill can be taken in advance against a problem that does not yet arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Geens is not yet here, I propose that instead of suspending the sitting, we should address some questions to Minister Muylle so that we can make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u35	Madam Minister, this morning the Socialist Union and the Walloon and Flemish networks for the fight against poverty have given us poignant testimony from people who, despite the fact that they are working, are unable to get out of it. I regret that your party declined this invitation. You could also have heard these workers tell us about their daily struggle and the feeling that we hear more and more often not to live but to survive. As all incomes increase, the minimum wage has not been re-aligned beyond indexation for more than ten years. As a result, the minimum wage is increasingly protecting against poverty. Three days ago, the press was interested in a study by Solidaris which showed that 48 per cent of workers were unable to set aside at the end of the month, 9 per cent ended up out of sight and 7 per cent were on the verge of precariousness. Today in Belgium there are more than 250,000 exploited workers. Minister, you inherit the policy of your predecessors, a policy that has muzzled social consultation. It must be recognised that the issue of the minimum wage is now at a standstill. How do you intend to relaunch social dialogue on the subject? What will be your initiatives in this area? As Minister for Poverty Reduction, Employment and Social Dialogue, what is your position on raising the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u36	Mr President, Minister, a decent wage for those who work sounds obvious, but it is still a distant dream for many workers in Belgium. Currently, the minimum wage is 1,340 euro net for a single person working full-time. Half of that amount goes on rent and then water, electricity and heating still have to be paid. And then they haven't eaten, let alone have money left to go to cinema or do something for themselves. The companies also notice that, because if employees do not have any money left at the end of the month, they postpone a doctor's visit or they may still get to the doctor but delay the purchase of medicines and eventually become ill, which is to the disadvantage of the employers. In Belgium minimum wages have not been increased for ten years. In a prosperous country such as Belgium, workers could expect more than the 10 cents per hour of storage that currently exists, because with that 10 cents one does not buy a waffle at the Christmas market. The social partners have drawn up a concrete roadmap for gradually achieving a minimum wage of EUR 14 per hour, but it is currently in a standstill. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you two questions. Do you agree with me that people who work should not live in poverty? What will you do to facilitate social dialogue so that we can achieve that minimum wage of EUR 14 per hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time I have been asked this question. I'm still surprised she keeps coming back. As you know, my competence to take new initiatives in current cases is limited. Moreover, this is a dossier that is before the social partners today. As you know, Mr. Goblet, the minimum wage for all sectors is set by CTC 43. In addition, supplementary agreements may be concluded at sectoral level. Sectors can go further, as far as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you referred to it yourself, there has been a proposal on the table of the Group of Ten since April to increase the minimum wages in the private sector by 1.1 %. I can only observe that this dossier is being blocked today by one party, the socialist union. It ensures that this extra EUR 100 does not end up in the hands of people who are in difficulty today. I'm incredibly sorry this can't happen right now. The social partners had almost agreed to develop a package of additional measures, including a further 2.4% minimum wage increase – which would have resulted in a total increase of 3.5% – as well as compensation for costs incurred by employers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that employers and trade unions continue to agree on minimum wages. This has an effect on employment. If an employee's wage costs are disproportionate to his productivity and his added value, jobs will be lost. Mr Goblet, the workers should obviously be properly paid. However, if jobs were lost in this operation, we would risk losing much more, also in relation to our neighbouring countries. We are, of course, in favour of people with low wages earning more. With the tax shift, this government has also effectively ensured that people have net more left. However, the social partners must now assume their responsibilities and ensure that the proposed increase benefits those who really need it. Today there is no demand from the social partners to intervene, and I am not going to do that either. I hope, however, that they will assume their responsibilities in the social dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u38	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I cannot thank you for your answer, as I do not share your point of view. I would remind you that, following the strengthening of the 1996 law, there is no longer any freedom in terms of negotiation either at the sector level or at the inter-professional level. In addition, a margin of 1.1% does not meet workers' expectations of purchasing power. The PS group has tabled a bill aimed at reaching the amount of EUR 14 per hour over the term of the legislature. I would like everyone to realize that, contrary to what has been announced, in particular by the FEB, the increase in the minimum wage is not automatically a cause of job loss, but rather a means of reviving economic activity, in particular by reviving consumption. We are convinced of this and will always support proposals to increase the minimum wage and to take better account of the need to live well for our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u39	Madam Minister, companies are making a great deal of profit today, but the previous government has blocked social dialogue by adapting the 1996 law so that there are fewer opportunities for wage increases. We're not asking for blame. All we ask is for people who work to be properly rewarded for the work they do. Currently there are 250,000 Belgians who work and who still join the Food Bank. We believe that people who do their best every day and contribute every day should also get their share of the cake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u40	Minister None, may I ask you to step forward, given the time schedule of a number of colleagues who would like to ask you questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u41	Minister, the prisons are moaning among the overpopulation. At the moment, in Flanders alone, there is an excess capacity of about 1,050 prisoners, resulting in a difficult situation for the detainees. The aggression is increasing more and more. I can refer you to a number of recent examples, such as the incident in Bruges last week. Firstly, the overpopulation leads to an unsustainable situation for the guards, hence today's general 24-hour strike. The strike came out of discontent with the general course of events, especially with regard to personnel policy. Minister, these problems have been dragging on for years. There's a growing staff shortage. The frameworks are not being filled in, not because of the situation in the labour market, where young people opt more for other safety professions, as you replied to me last time, but precisely because the status of prisoners is becoming less and less attractive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u43	From the guards, of course, Minister. Their status is becoming less and less attractive and I therefore understand the general and constant malaise of those people. You may say that you have taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in prisons, but we see little or nothing of this on the ground. Today I hear you say that you understand the situation and the desires of the guards. It would be lacking. That you cannot move heaven and earth in five years is not right either, because the problems have been dragging on for many years. You should have given it priority. When will we finally find a definitive solution to the legitimate aspirations of the guards?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u44	Minister, our country is experiencing new strike movements in our prisons today. Who can be astounded by this situation? There are over 1,000 inmates in prisons. Cells are small and overcrowded; hygiene conditions are deplorable. There are always internees in our prisons. There is an increasing number of pre-trial detentions and the staff cadre is not complete. You'll agree, it's an explosive cocktail, a pot under pressure. This is the chronicle of an announced strike. The consequences? The working conditions of some of them affect the conditions of detention of others and vice versa. Sweden's commitment was to limit the number of detainees to 10,000 per year. This objective has never been achieved. What lessons do you learn, Minister, from this inability to deliver on this long-term promise? What you have done is too little in relation to human rights. Do you insist on a policy of bricks, when we know very well that it is a failure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u45	Mr. Secretary, there's been a stop in prison. Yes, there are poor working and living conditions. Yeah, there's staff shortages. Yeah, there's overpopulation. Yeah, the guidance in the prisons really needs to be improved. That is all right and they are unacceptable situations. Yes, you've already recruited new guards, Minister. An alternative punishment has already been worked out. You've started a transition house. The prison master plan was revived and more capacity was created. Together with Mr Francken, you have also increased the capacity of issuing illegal criminals. What do I hear yesterday and this morning in the media? Too heavy and too long will be punished. We need to do something about that. That takes political courage. Each time the magic figure of the 10,000 prisoners comes up, where we are not allowed to go down. Isn't it the other way around, I wonder. Isn't it true that a judge has to pronounce the sentence that is appropriate, whether it is a prison sentence, an alternative sentence or electronic surveillance? Is it not the responsibility of the government to ensure that that punishment is correct and human but is actually carried out regardless of what punishment it is? Isn't political courage rather needed to ensure that there is more capacity, that there are more resources, more staff and more investment so that prison time can be carried out properly and humanely, even if that means that there would be more than 10,000 prisoners? Minister, what about the extra capacity? What's the status of the master plan? Are you considering alternatives pending? We rented a prison in Tilburg once. Can we do that again? I am thinking, for example, of a prison boat and additional transition houses. I am also very curious to hear how your cooperation with Mrs De Block is going. Are we going to continue with the expulsion of illegal criminals?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u46	Minister, a few weeks ago I questioned you about the strike in the Antwerp prison and the situation on the ground. I heard at the time that the law on minimum services has still not entered into force. Our group deeply regrets this. You then referred to the deadlines that had to be respected. You guaranteed that the execution would come. The law is still not here today. There was indeed a vote and you have indeed assumed your responsibility, Minister. This is not a reproach, but we cannot count on it today. I referred to the answer you gave then. At the moment, the situation is becoming untenable and we are all the victims of this. Not only the prisoners who are often in prison with three people who are very tense, but also the staff who have to do their job in very difficult circumstances, and also the police who have to step in when they are understaffed themselves. In the end, it will have an impact on society as a whole, Minister. If, as a government, we are unable to guide the prisoners to a good return to society, this will jeopardise the security of all of us. As Mrs De Wit said, prison sentences must be enforceable. What guarantees can you give today to improve the situation on the ground? More specifically, I thought you had an appointment with the builders of the last three new prisons in Marche, Leuze and Beveren, to increase capacity there by 15%? Has this happened yet? Can you explain that more? Can you tell me what measures you have taken in the past to create a more meaningful detention for the detainees?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u47	Mr Minister, we can understand the prison staff strike, even if you have to do justice. You managed, at some point, to bring the number of inmates under the 10,000 mark. Today, we are far from that figure. According to my information, there are 10,885 detainees. This situation is quite indecent. It is customary to say that the quality of a democracy can be judged by the way it treats its inmates. Today, we treat inmates very badly. It is now time to have a strategy to achieve results in this area. It may have been forgotten that your government has been convicted of the situation in the prisons in Saint-Gilles and Forest, which have nearly 850 inmates today for a capacity of 549. There are 300 inmates too many. You have been convicted and heavy penalties will run from 7 March 2020. These periodic payments amount to EUR 1 000 per day initially, then to EUR 2 000 and then to EUR 4 000 per day. I have done the calculation: it is EUR 5 million for the first year, EUR 10 million for the second year and EUR 20 million for the additional years. These are very heavy demands. Minister, how will you manage to avoid paying them, while at the same time ensuring that there is a decrease in the number of prisoners in prisons? What will be your strategy? Do you not fear that the law of 5 May 2019, which deals with the execution of short sentences, will further exacerbate the current situation, taking the risk of bringing up to 7,000 more prisoners to Belgian prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u48	Minister, I would just like to talk about the complete lack of respect for the guards. We can talk about many other aspects here, but, as my fellow Members have said, we have talked about this a number of times. We are talking today about the lack of respect for the guards, but if we go home in a few weeks, we will find that the weather has gotten worse. Guards are civil servants. Mr Van Quickenborne is not here, but I know: not everyone has respect for officials. But at least everyone should understand the difficulty of the guard's profession. As they themselves witness, they have to work in prisons that are overcrowded and where there are increasingly problems with suicides, with drugs, with deradicalisation. And they say the unions are on strike. In recent years, the trade unions have made agreements with the government, not the government in current affairs, but the government with those who have resigned. The staff have made agreements with the government about being more economical and working differently. Then it was said that there would never be less than 6,825 people employed in prisons. There are now 6,600, 225 less than in the previous government's hard promise. There wouldn't be more than 10,000 prisoners, there would be 10,900. Reference will again be made to current cases; the difficult circumstances or even to rising sea levels. But there are no solutions. Minister, forget all the reasons that have always been given. It is simply time to make commitments now, whether on-going or not, to improve the situation of the guards and to restore respect for the guards. If that is not possible in current cases, please come to Parliament. We could have done it for the nurses. Well, we can do it for the guards, too. They deserve it, very urgently in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u49	Minister, this morning I was in front of your office to support the action of the workers who went on strike because they felt neither heard nor taken seriously. Indeed, you promised them in 2016 to hire staff. However, this promise has not been fulfilled. Besides that, there is overcrowding in prisons. Last week, I visited Saint-Gilles prison. Its capacity is 500 places, while 860 people are held there. Management has explicitly told us that maintaining adequate working conditions is a real day-to-day challenge. The turnover of the agents is permanent, so they are constantly understaffed. Workers are now on strike not only to denounce the emergency situation, but also to castigate your bill that imposes a minimum service on them. This law constitutes an infringement of the right to strike and imposes a double penalty on them. On the one hand, they cannot criticize their working conditions, because the means by which they can do so is condemned by this bill. Therefore, Minister, I will ask you two simple and clear questions which I hope you will answer equally. Why did you not comply with the 2016 agreements, which provide for hiring staff to ensure acceptable working conditions? Then, as you know the situation, how dare you impose a minimum service that requires a greater number of available agents than their capacity on an ordinary working day?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u50	Colleagues, there were seven questioners. Minister, you have six minutes tops. I know your sense of synthesis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u51	Mr President, thank you for the kind introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore what is also the subject of today's strike. It also deals with legislation on minimum services and the status of prison staff. The minimum service is in its final stage of implementation, namely the negation of the framework per prison to be present in the event of a strike. However, the law on minimum services, which we have adopted, also contains other very interesting points. In particular, the fact that prison officers will in any case be statutory, notwithstanding a potential reform of the status of civil servants in general and of the "destaturization" of some. We have tried to make the prison function as attractive as possible through the criteria of permanence and stability of employment. Does that mean that this function, for the time being, is very attractive? As far as some prisons are concerned, the question is to answer it! The infrastructure of our prisons, as I have already said many times, is outdated in 50 per cent of cases. Those built in the 1970s and 1980s lack stability, not to take the example of Lantin or Bruges. I can't tell you what we did at that time. I was too young to know, but we are all co-responsible. It seems to me that the target of 10,000 prisoners comes from the fact that at the time I took office, the theoretical capacity of my prisons was 10,180 prisoners. When I took up office, the theoretical capacity of the prisons was 10.180 places. With the closure of half of the Prince's prison, at the mayor's insistence; with the fire in Merksplas resulting in the closure of half the number of prison places; and with the closure of the Tilburg prison, with which we saved up to EUR 35 million, because at that time I thought we could quickly build new prisons, capacity fell by more than 1,000 units to 9,100 places. That indeed means that there is a significant overpopulation. I managed at some point to lower the prison population to less than 10,000 inmates. I tried to keep my promise. But let us be honest, many or few prisoners, that is not a matter of prestige. This is primarily a question of capacity and, secondly, a question of penitentiary policy. What have I done with my government colleagues to depopulate the prisons? Firstly, we have greatly improved the internment. Together with fellow Minister De Block we were able to transfer 700 internees from prison to specialized institutions. Today we find difficult places in forensic care, which is a reason for the delay in the exfiltration of interned people from prison. Secondly, there is the repatriation of people without a residence permit. Together with Mr Francken and today Mrs De Block, we have brought back about 2,000 people. Thirdly, ankle bracelets are used where they can be used, for example for the arrested. This measure is very sensitive in the social field. If I have bad luck next Thursday and someone with an anklet commits a crime, I will stand here and the same members will stand in front of me and ask me what I have done now. The anklet is a good measure, which is applied consistently in some arrondissements and in others less. I will insist that you become more tolerant to the GPS ankle strap in cases where there is no immediate risk of recurrence. At the moment, the measure is crucial to reducing the overpopulation. When an investigating judge is attacked at every decision he makes, it is of course difficult for him or her to show courage, although he may have that courage under the law. Fourthly, there are alternative penalties. For example, labor is a frequently applied possibility, but it is applied less than is possible. After all, one does not like to fall short of his or her social duty. You've heard me defend penitentiary leave. You have heard me defend circulars on short-term sentences. I had to move them all in because there was no social support for them anymore. All of them! Colleagues, that's when I was under 10,000. At the least incident, however, there is a drama here on Thursday afternoon. So I drew my conclusions from that. You say there must be enough prisons. Well, I found at the beginning of the legislature that no one would have given EUR 2 for the construction of the construction in Haren. Go to the bridge of Vilvoorde and look down, the prison of Haren is being built. No one gave 1 euro for the construction of Dendermonde. On Friday, however, the Council of Ministers will finally decide on the construction of Dendermonde. All licensing procedures are over. I see the chairman looking at his clock and I hurry. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a light at the end of the tunnel if we can agree on a good penitentiary policy and on the usefulness of the punishment. This is currently being debated in the Justice Committee. I invite you to participate constructively in that discussion. After all, prison is not the only solution. I said from the beginning of the legislature that this is the ultimatum remedium. Finally, as regards the recruitment of staff, Mr Crombez, I have sat with the top of the prison administration on a weekly basis, and together with Selor I have worked to get an average of 500 recruitments a year. I challenge you to achieve the same average with the current cut in the labour market in Flanders. I wish you that challenge, because you would be a good Minister of Justice. The unions also know how difficult that is. As far as respect for trade unions is concerned, that is a great deal, because I met them Monday morning and I saw them just now. We've worked well together. What the unions are doing today is arguing for the future and asking that the next government invest in prisons. They do not say that we have not worked very hard in the past five years to do what had to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u52	It is true, Minister, that this is mainly about the status of prison staff. For many years, Mr Crombez has been working to give them a better statute and to show them more respect. The guards are tired of listening to their legitimate concerns for years, of increasing the workload, of not being able to take their holidays and of becoming less attractive. Mr Minister, only by drawing up an attractive statute will you be able to convince young people once again to opt for the fine profession, because that is what I would like to stress, of the guard. In any event, the Flemish interest will continue to work towards a definitive solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u53	Minister, thank you. I welcome this meeting with the unions. I'm worried about what you're doing today. These are exactly the same promises as they were five years ago. If I repeat the story, I fear that if the next government makes the same promises (more staff, more bricks, more capacity), we will not have another prison model tomorrow. That is what we need for tomorrow: another model, to be defined together, another prison policy that respects human rights. It's really an urgent need for our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u54	Mr President, Minister, we are talking about respect for guards, respect for prisoners and respect for the society that we must protect where necessary. No matter how we turn it around, when we think about a criminal policy, we need greater capacity and a maximum figure should never be a guide. The number of prisoners should not be adapted to the number of places available. It must be reversed, so we must invest. There was a time when we would rather build a railway station of 270 million euros in Bergen than set up a prison. That time has changed, but in anticipation of an investment and of the implementation of the master plan with which we are pleased, I recommend you to see if we can't rent a prison boat or a prison boat anywhere and provide extra capacity. Maybe you should meet Minister De Block again after all. Your barn is on fire. If the punishments are implemented for up to three years, more prisoners will be added. We must work together to find solutions, and I think that this, government or no government, is really a task for us, with respect for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I note that it remains difficult in this House to listen to each other. I am not talking about the Minister's little chat with Mrs Dillen, but I am addressing Mr Crombez, who just spoke to my group. I referred in my introduction to the very difficult working conditions of all prison staff. Our group has a great deal of sympathy for this, but I also understand your answer, Minister, in relation to recruitment. Overpopulation is a problem with many causes and it will indeed require several measures to solve this problem. We have already taken measures, including with Minister De Block in relation to those forensic centres, and we are in favour of extending them. I support Mrs De Wit in her plea to think out of the box in this hallucinating situation, to seek emergency measures and to find a solution to these problems together with Parliament in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u56	Minister, I have one of your last sentences, namely, "prisoning should be the ultimate solution". There are other alternatives. Moreover, the safest societies were not the ones incarcerated the most. The rate of incarceration in the United States is ten times higher than the rate of incarceration in Belgium. However, the number of murders committed there is calling us every day. So we need to put in place – this will be the task of the next government, even if it should rather be that of this government – a real strategy for achieving, at last, results. Increasing capacity is not a solution in itself, even if it is necessary at a given time. We know there's an air call when there's an increase in capacity. These are the alternatives to detention on which urgent work is needed. We need to review the Penal Code. And I hope that the work in the Committee on Justice can be speeded up. It is on these levers that we must be able to count on in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think if the guards hear the answer, they know they won't be helped for the coming period. You know that, too. It's about what's going to be available. In Haren these are 900 places, at least a few hundred less than the capacity that will have to be emptied in Brussels. Mrs Gabriels, when it comes to respect, there is enough listening. You have indicated in your opening statement that you are so sorry that the minimum service is not yet active. You know what I'm sorry about? That the guards are always having a harder time. They're at 6,600, less than promised by your government. You are talking about the minimum service that is ideological, because it costs more to society than to ensure that these people can do their job properly. For those who don't believe that, soon you'll be off for a week, take over their work for a week, do the guard's work for a week. Then we will argue differently here than talking about harassment as the minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u58	Minister, I would like to thank you too for your answers, but unfortunately I did not have one. You said you took steps. According to my information, you have signed protocols 436, 464 and 455, but none of them have been respected. In protocol 455 you promised never to be below 6,825 prison officers. At the moment, we have 6,601 agents. To these 6,601 officers, today, 540,000 days of leave are denied due to lack of staff. That's why they're on strike. They don't do it for the future. It is also because of your past policy and the non-compliance with the protocols that you signed. That is why they will continue to strike, because apparently you don't hear them. I saw them this morning, they're determined, they're going to be heard, and they're not going to stop there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u59	Minister, the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks of March 2016 pointed to the need to strengthen the exchange and sharing of information between the police and intelligence services as well as with the prison administrations with regard to radicalisation. Follow-up to radicalized or in the process of being radicalized is an absolute necessity. The Liège killing has recently demonstrated this. The MR Group has long called for concrete measures to be taken to better combat religious proselytism in prisons. Celex, the unit in charge of extremism within the Directorate-General of Prisons, manages a list of 130 prisoners. In parallel, there is also the Terro database with FTFs, HTFs, hate preachers. This is not enough to ensure follow-up to identify and better frame individuals who are radicalized or in the process of being radicalized. Minister, we had to fill this gap and you did it – and I welcome the government's action – by tabling a draft royal decree to the Council of State which "provides for the extension of the Terro database to potentially dangerous extremist detainees as well as to those convicted of terrorism". Since there is a need for means to ensure that all this is done effectively, I have a few questions to ask you. Minister, when will the extension of the database be effective and what services will be able to access and update it? Is specific data analysis and management training planned? Has an estimate of additional resources been made in consultation with the police and intelligence services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u60	Mr. Pivin, the government has decided to propose to the King an extension of the common database on terrorists and potential terrorists. We had discovered that there were not enough categories and that radicalized people in prison were not included in the data bank, unless there were other circumstances than this radicalization in prison. That is why this royal decree was submitted to the Monitoring Committee and the Council of State. It is almost back from these bodies and normally should be signed by the King in June and will be effective 48 hours after its publication. A great deal of attention is paid to data protection within the legal framework. Opinions were requested from the Data Protection Authority. As for the persons and bodies who will have access to it compared to those who have access to it now, the Treasury will now also have access to it. Indeed, for the assets freeze – which we regularly decide in the National Security Council on the advice of the Minister of Justice and then in the Council of Ministers on the advice of the Minister of Finance – it is essential that the Treasury also have access to it. If no specific training is required, the services will be prepared to take the necessary steps. In any event, no new means are required, which has made possible the opinion of the competent bodies and the adoption of this royal decree in day-to-day affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can only reiterate our satisfaction at seeing you once again following a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry. It is, of course, our political responsibility to ensure the financial means of these measures. I think you will and the government will continue to do so. I hope that the government will be keen to activate so quickly another request from the MR: the development of the list of weak signals, radicalised and radicalised people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u62	Mr Minister, yesterday, a new judicial decision was taken by the Brussels interim judge condemning the Belgian State for providing consular assistance for the repatriation (identity and travel documents) of the ten children in the Al-Hol camp, which is now under the control of the Kurdish authorities and their coalition with other factions and not in the Kurdish-held area. This is the third court decision concerning children and families. I have understood through your statements that an appeal must be brought against this decision. Minister of Justice, isn't it time to revise our strategy? For other court decisions will take place as we put our heads in the sand. Is it not possible for our democracy to deal with these issues? Is it really a good thing, especially for security reasons and without raising issues of justice and law or security, to leave these children and families there while there is chaos? One day, these Belgian nationals will fall into the hands of people and groups who are hostile to us. They may one day be instrumentalized by these people at our expense. Is it not time to change our strategy in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u63	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to answer your question concerning the order of the Brussels Court of First Instance. The Belgian State was ordered to provide consular assistance to 10 children, not their parents, and to send them the necessary documents to undertake a trip to Belgium. We are sentenced to a penalty of 5,000 euros per day and per child six weeks after the service of the ordinance, if we have not repatriated these children. On the basis of an initial analysis, the content of this conviction, i.e. the principle of repatriating children under the age of 10, is in line with the Government's decision of December 2017 to repatriate, not proactively but on request, children under the age of 10. We will carefully analyse the judgement for the actions and defences that the government could undertake. Regardless of the legal issue, regardless of our attitude to the principle, many other issues need to be filled in order to repatriate children. In particular, we must convince the Kurdish authorities, who are monitoring the camps, to allow the repatriation of children without their parents, without their mothers, and we must also obtain the consent of the parents. Possibilities in this regard still need to be explored. The order is quite recent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u64	Minister, I note that you are less assertive than in some of the statements I read this morning on the possibility of an appeal. This is indeed simply consular assistance. The aim is to provide travel and identity documents, which indeed seems to be in line with the Belgian Government's decision. But we have to go beyond that and I can confirm that the Kurds are asking for it. A congress is being held in Brussels, in the European Parliament. I met the Kurds yesterday. They're asking us to take care of our nationals. That's the least I can do. They are concerned because they do not have the forces to defend themselves against the Turkish offensive and to protect these detention centres. Again, it is the very common sense to prevent our citizens, children, women or men, from being in the hands of people who can use them against us. It's common sense itself. We can go look for these kids over there. Belgian journalists' teams are moving on the ground for the time being. Minister, I ask you to reconsider this position and this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 24 November last year we had more than 10,000 people marching through the streets of Brussels to stop the societal scourge of violence against women and also to stop the sexism that legitimizes and trivializes this violence. Because we will never say enough: violence against women comes only at the end of a chain that begins with a retrograde vision of women, conveyed precisely by sexism. It starts with insults, then comes harassment, beatings and, finally, drama. Women are killed because they are women. It is precisely this vision of the woman that is promoted by surgeon Hoeyberghs. The comments he made were unacceptable. They incite hatred, violence and even rape. Today, the University of Ghent should sanction these remarks because they are unacceptable. And I think it's really very important to punish them. Contrary to what was said by the president of the student association who invited the surgeon in question, freedom of expression is not meant to incite hatred, let alone against half of the population. Today, more than 500 complaints have been submitted to the Institute for Equality of Women and Men, which will file a complaint in court. Madam Minister, do you consider that the law against sexism, which is the basis of this legal action, must be adapted in order to sanction statements made not against a particular person but against a group of people, in this case all women? Is there any consultation with Ministers in charge of Higher Education to prevent hate conferences organized by student associations? Can you assure me that the fight against sexism will be an integral part of the action plan against violence against women? It's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, I assume that you have been, like me, interlogged and outraged by this matter. I started by reading all the statements made by this cosmetic surgeon at the University of Ghent. Then I heard them. The shock was terrible. In our time – even though our Parliament has passed laws against sexism, insults and, of course, discrimination between women and men – how can such statements still be heard in public, even in an academic forum? These statements simply indicate a lack of respect for the human being: whether the person is a man or a woman, such sexist statements cannot be accepted. Above all, they reflect terrible violence for all the women who have heard them and who, I am sure, have been shocked. Of course, my group defends respect for everyone and fights against discrimination. The Social Council of the University of Ghent proposed a suspension of this student circle, which was already considered very conservative and whose very character is controversial – it must be said. Then, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men formed a civil party against this plastic surgeon. Minister, my questions are simple. I assume you, like me, have been outraged. So what measures do you intend to take? We all know the law against sexism that dates back to 2014. How can we ensure that such statements can no longer be made publicly and a fortiori – because it is even more unacceptable, in my view – in a university? Finally, what sanctions do these types of individuals expect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen,'scientists are usually men, because women always get emotions in between'. "You cannot treat a woman as equal without becoming her slave." "Women want male protection and money, but they don't want to open their legs anymore." I'm shocked by those statements. These are statements by Mr Hoeyberghs during a lecture at the invitation of the KVHV. We have therefore lodged a complaint. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men is a striking expression, because the Institute states that those who call women lazy and stupid lowers the threshold to discriminate against women. Whoever says women have to open their legs lowers the threshold to rape women. That extreme call to hatred is a growing problem. Not only with the association KVHV, but also on the internet, more and more extreme young people promote such ideas. We do not need to look far, because here in Parliament there are people who are contributing to a discourse of sexism and women's hatred. Madam Secretary, do you condemn the quoted statements? Do you condemn the association that offers the platform those statements? Does the gender and sexism law meet to be able to tackle these statements vigorously? Will you take additional measures to combat sexism and women's hatred in our society and also on the Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u68	Mr President, you do not have to set the time limit for speaking time to four minutes, because I think it is bad enough that we should pay attention to this issue. As Minister of Equal Opportunities, I condemn those statements which are extremely sexist and distasteful to me. I also regret the fact that such hatred of women is spread at a university. I find that in my indignation I am not alone. Along with 1,200 other men and women, I reported to the institute that is primarily responsible for the follow-up of such statements. The Institute takes the many reports to heart and examines them in the light of the "gender law" and the law against sexism. In the coming days, the Institute also intends to become a civil party on the basis of the "gender law" because Mr Hoeyberghs's remarks incite discrimination and hatred against women. Colleagues, it is up to the Institute and Justice to do their work, but it is not clear to everyone today that men and women are equal. We still have a great deal of work to do here in Parliament for equal representation, but above all let us not talk too much about these medieval ideas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is important to condemn what has been said, but you have absolutely not answered my question, how to take the fight against sexism into account in the comprehensive national plan of action against violence against women. It is important to tackle this right now, with the federated entities, and to bring together all the levels of power around the table, day-to-day business or not. If you need parliamentary support for this, I invite you to consult the motion for a resolution that my DeFI Group has tabled, and to encourage your Government to put in place a national action plan to combat violence against women. I hope that this time we will be able to take advantage of the urgency to give you all the flexibility to put it in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u70	Madam Minister, I did not expect any less from your answer. That kind of statement must of course be strongly condemned. This is truly unacceptable. We have to keep fighting. How can we deal with violence against women when we hear such words from a different age? Thank you for your firmness. We will continue to follow all the words, and all the insults that can be uttered and that undermine this equality that is still far from being achieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u71	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You condemn the statements and that is good, because we expect a strong signal from a Minister of Equal Opportunities. However, we also expect measures from a Minister of Equal Opportunities. A vigorous approach is needed to tackle the growing problem of women's hatred. If you do not take action now, then the hateful and sexist discourse will become the new normal. We must not tolerate that. You are sorry to have to pay attention to this subject, but I would like to thank you for having a debate on it in this House, because I heard that yesterday in the Flemish Parliament it was taboo to talk about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u72	Madam Minister, next year there will be social elections, as every four years. In the workplace not everyone is the same; I can share that with you. That's why there are the délégués. At the next social elections, thousands of workers will be re-enlisted as délégué. Délégués is committed to the workmen and defending their interests; they stick their necks out and are the voice of those who cannot or cannot do so. That is why they are also legally protected. The VBO today declares in the media that the trade union representatives are overprotected. That is a real blow to the face of the thousands of delégués, who work every day, even in their spare time, for ordinary workers. Madam Secretary, I experienced it myself, I worked in a company and went to work on my day off because the workers were in a dangerous situation. I stood up for them and the boss fired me. I did not return, even though the judge agreed with me three times, arguing that he could not impose my re-employment. There is therefore a problem if the judge agrees with the trade union delegate, but cannot enforce his or her reintegration. Madam Secretary, what will you do if a syndicater is unjustly dismissed and unable to return to work while the judge agrees with him? How will you ensure his reintegration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u73	Mrs. Vindevoghel, I also read the article. Social elections are again taking place in May next year. By the way, tomorrow the lottery will take place in my cabinet and the numbers will be taken off the lists. That is also the start of the process of social elections. Mrs Vindevoghel, candidates and elected members in social elections enjoy protection for dismissals, so that they can perform their duties independently, without pressure from the employer. There is legislation on this issue. The Law of 19 March 1991 states that employees can be dismissed only for economic and technical reasons, which were previously recognized by the Joint Committee, and on the other hand compelling reasons, which were previously recognized by the Labour Court. Any dismissal outside those circumstances is irregular. The protection applies for four years. In order to give effective effect to the protection of dismissals, sanctions are laid down in the law in the event of non-compliance with the conditions and procedures. You referred to that as well. The irregularly dismissed member of staff shall be entitled to a flat-rate allowance of current earnings for two to four years, depending on his seniority in the undertaking. In addition, if you do not answer the question of the reintegration of an irregularly dismissed worker, what your question was, a variable remuneration is also payable, corresponding to the remuneration for the remaining part of the period up to the end of his term of office. That is the legislation, which is on the count, Mrs Vindevoghel, and we will not change it before the next social elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u74	Madam Secretary, it is clear that you do not want to change the legislation. When I got fired, I didn't want any money, I just wanted my job back. I hadn't made a mistake, and I just wanted my job back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not asking for immunity, just like Members of Parliament who enjoy it. We are simply asking for good protection for workers who stand up for their colleagues. We are not asking for a retirement allowance of many tens of thousands of euros, which is granted to many Members of Parliament. We are simply asking that workers who have been unfairly dismissed can return to work in order to continue to work for their colleagues. We have therefore tabled a legislative proposal to address this problem and to ensure that workers who are unfairly dismissed and are right can be reintegrated in court, as can already be done in France.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u76	I would just like to point out that we cannot, of course, deal with personal cases during Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u77	End of oral questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat that those who want to talk can go outside. There's a coffee room or you can go to your desk, but those who stay here follow the debate or pretend. Kan dat?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u78	Mr President, before the discussions begin, we would like, on behalf of our group, to ask for the opinion of the Council of State on the legislative proposal No. 523/1-9 on euthanasia, which is the second item on the agenda. We would also like to ask the Council of State's opinion on Amendments Nos. 25 to 28 on the Bill No. 523.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u79	Mr Van Hoof, can we do so at the moment when the bill is before us for discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u80	Mr President, we are now in number. I'd like to do that now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u81	Before everyone will answer my question of going to the hallway or the coffee room? You may ask that now, but it is customary to do so when the legislative proposal comes up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u82	I'd like to ask you to do it now. I think we're in numbers now. My question is legitimate. I think that in a democratic parliament the number also applies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u83	I really do not want to be difficult, but it is normal to ask this at the moment when a proposal is being discussed. If one can do that at any time of the sitting, it is not really so coherent. I'll consult the Room. Fifty Members are needed to ask for this opinion. That is not insurmountable, Mrs Van Hoof. If we have 50 members, the Chamber will deal with this and we will seek the opinion of the Council of State. It's no harder than that. I see everyone's on their couch. I can pretty much guess which 50 Members will ask the question. I want to do that now, and that bill's off the table right now. Those who support the request for the opinion of the Council of State shall be entitled. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u84	Mr Van Hecke, are you insisting on a name vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u85	Mr President, I can't count that fast. I'd like to know if there's 50.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u86	The Registrar says he counted 52 members. Mr Van Hecke, are you convinced? Otherwise, someone from the services will have to come here specifically to organize the name vote. We have worked well so far. You're convinced? [[Assent]] Then the bill No. 523 transferred to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Dewael, Valerie Van Peel, Barbara Pas, Nahima Lanjri, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u89	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some have made this proposal appear to be a technical amendment of the law. In my view, the real debate is not technical but political. In fact, the question is whether Members' severance benefits should be maintained or whether a few parties are prepared to replace them with a socially fairer system, such as an unemployment system similar to that which exists for ordinary workers, for the few Members who would not return to their posts. That is the question. On the merits, the exit allowance is supposedly provided for outgoing parliamentarians who would find it difficult to return to employment after exercising their mandate. This exists, but it concerns a very small minority. Moreover, overall, this does not correspond to the facts since my party has shown that out of 75 parliamentarians who had left the previous legislature, at least 68 had already returned to work or were entitled to their pension. [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, can you ask the assembly for a little calm? The subject is important. If one finds work, how can one justify still being entitled to severance pay, even if this allowance is limited to 150 per cent. There is still a question here of almost 10,000 euros per month for former Members who do not really need it. The PTB has therefore tabled a bill to remove this severance pay system. We regret that all the parties, with the exception of the Ecolo-Groen Group, have voted to abolish this bill from the agenda in order to avoid it being attached to the text that has been debated in committee. We hope that in the future there will be a genuine willingness on the part of the parties to discuss this proposal so that we can review this system of severance pay, a parliamentary privilege unfortunately among others, Mr President. We will therefore abstain from this text today, not because it goes too far – you will understand it – but because it does not go far enough, because it does not fundamentally review things, because it is just a technical adaptation aimed at dealing with aberration. And we regret that the fundamental political debate is apparently not possible at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u91	Mr President, of course the sp.a. Group will support your proposal. We are counting on you to hold a thorough debate on this at a later date. Retiring allowances are in absolute need of reform. There has been a reform in the past, the duration of which has been limited since 2014, although a particularly generous transitional regime has been adopted in the Chamber. The sp.a believes that, just as we have done with the parliamentary pensions that we have put in place, the time of payment and its calculation in line with the rights of ordinary workers, we should also do so with regard to retirement allowances. We should not treat MEPs differently, no more, no better, but no less than ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u92	Mr President, my speech is very similar to that of Mr Vandenbroucke. That was the case in committee. The political support for a thorough reform is, in my view, greater than some try to make it appear. Our group supports what is in front of us. It's an anomaly, something that slipped through the meshes of the net. It is not possible for a wage ceiling to apply when one is a Member of Parliament, but not during the period of retirement. It makes sense for us to get rid of that as soon as this has been established. Hence our support for this proposal. However, as far as we are concerned, this is not the end of the exercise. Like Mr Vandenbroucke and others, we believe that the status of the Member of Parliament should be reviewed globally. Among other things, the period of retirement is too long and too wide today. The social status of Members of Parliament must evolve towards a statute similar to other statutes. What has not yet been mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, is the accumulation of fees. There is the accumulation of mandates that is worth a debate. As far as we are concerned, the representative of the people is a full-time job, an honour that is best exercised in full-time life. Today there is the decumulation of fees between public functions. There is much to be said to extend this to decumulating public and private functions. A number of examples to make it clear that the debate has certainly not been concluded and that, as in the past, our group will be happy to be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u93	Thank you, colleagues. I took the initiative to table this bill, because it was an anomaly in which one did charge more heavily than the other. There was no logic in that. Most of the groups followed me in that. If some groups now think that other issues should be raised, it is best not to hold back. Submit proposals and they will then be dealt with in due course by the Rules of Procedure Committee, the Constitution Committee or, who knows, Mr Calvo, a new special committee. I am not in favour of that. It is up to the Chamber to judge that. Is anyone else asking for the floor in the general discussion? Mr Van Hees, you are asking for the floor, but you have already had it. Once is not customary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u94	Mr President, I want to respond to what you have just said. You just said that if we had proposals, we had to table them. And that's what we did. We wanted to add our bill to yours, Mr. Chairman. That was refused. So I don't understand your speech very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u95	The committee shall decide on its work. Every day is enough for him. A step has been taken. The chairman of the committee must now put the other proposals on the agenda. That is how Parliament works. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u96	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (734/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (734/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u97	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u98	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Ellen Samyn, Hans Verreyt, Ortwin Depoortere, Frank Toventors, Dominiek Sneppe, Barbara Pas. The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (464/2) The Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (464/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u99	Mr President, I refer to the detailed written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u100	Then I give the floor to Mrs Samyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the known billions of transfers from Flanders to Wallonia have been increasing every year for decades. Today we have a record of EUR 12.3 billion per year, which amounts to EUR 1 920 per Fleming per year. Of this 12.3 billion, some EUR 2 billion is directly available to social security. There has been a lot of nervousness and commotion lately about the division of social security, especially along the French-speaking side. For French-speaking politicians, social security is, they say, a red line that should not be touched. Philippe Close, the Brussels PS mayor, put it as follows in an article in De Tijd: "We are not going to touch social security. That's our red line. If we give it up, Belgium will no longer have any interest. This country is not bound by the Red Devils. It's gonna take more than that. I'm not saying the rest can't be negotiated, but we're not gonna do anything stupid. But social security: jamais." Close is far from alone with such statements. In the past, several French-speaking leaders stated that, if social security were to be split, Belgium would no longer have any interest in French-speaking people. Recently, in mid-September, an interview was published in De Standaard with 'Mr Onkelinx' Marc Uyttendaele, in which he stated: "Social security is the added value of federal Belgium for French speakers. No French-speaking politician is going to make decisions that make his constituents less comfortable." Who remembers Laurette Onkelinx's statement from 2010: "We want to milk the Belgian cow for another ten years and keep the carcass. That is the price of freedom." She meant that Wallonia wanted to use social security for another ten years as a milk cow and that the Flemings could then keep the cadaver. Onkelinx then openly confirmed how French-speaking politicians look at Belgian social security, and wider, what value they still attach to this country. So none, except to plummet Flanders as much as possible. It's been noted. I call on the Flemish politicians to think carefully about this. Moreover, in this context of French-speaking profit-making, Belgian social security means more and more social uncertainty, with the quality of the health care provided increasingly crumbling and where it is becoming increasingly difficult to defend that pensions will remain affordable. Why does the Flemish Interest always advocate the division of social security? In principle, we start from the idea that every people has the right to self-determination. Flanders but also Wallonia has the right to set up their own social security, according to their own insights and needs. In practice, we also note that there are considerable differences between Flanders and Wallonia in terms of needs and needs. It therefore requires other recipes to deal with these differences in the most efficient and rational way, which cannot be done in the Belgian context. Flanders and Wallonia are not only political but also socio-economically two different countries, with different challenges and financial capacity. The social and economic gap between Flanders and Wallonia continues to grow every year. Studies show that the unemployment rate in Wallonia is more than twice as high as in Flanders. As far as the rate of activity in Wallonia is concerned, this is 10% lower than in Flanders. In concrete terms, this means that in French-speaking Belgium more people receive benefits and less active contributions to Belgian social security. Flanders and Wallonia also lay other medical imperatives. Where the Fleming chooses to go to a doctor sooner, the Walen often go straight to a specialist. However, we Flemings are allowed to pay these heavy invoices. Flanders also attaches greater importance to preventive health care. An example of this is the refundable vaccination against cervical cancer. Screening often avoids costly interventions. Wallonia chooses not to do so. Here too, Flanders will pay for the invoice. Once again, it appears that the language border is also a care border. More than 15,000 Flemings are currently on the waiting list in disability care, 135.000 Flemings are waiting for a social home, three of the four Flemish seniors are unable to pay their retirement bill. While Wallonia passes by the cash register, the Flemings pay. They pay for their own social security, they also contribute to the Flemish Zorgkas and also pay extra for French-speaking Belgium. So the Fleming pays three times. For Flemish Interest, these abuses are unacceptable. A number of powers have already been transferred to the Länder, but, as in many areas, the fragmentation of powers hinders a coherent and resource-efficient policy. It is hard to understand and not to justify the fact that nine ministers in six governments are concerned with health care. Soon we will be celebrating the 75th anniversary of modern social security, a system designed to ensure good pensions, good sickness or unemployment benefits and, above all, the care of the socially disadvantaged in our society. In order to continue to enjoy healthy social security, it is necessary for the Flemish Interest to divide it. A split will be the beginning of a better social security system. Flanders and Wallonia will be able to respond to their own needs and needs. Flemish social security is perfectly affordable. The Flemish economy is more than strong enough to ensure proper care, to finance robust pensions and family support policies and to eliminate waiting lists. Finally, I would like to address the N-VA colleagues. In committee, you raised practical objections to the Brussels situation. Due to the various state reforms, Brussels was indeed institutionally largely cut away from Flanders. In the meantime, our capital city has been faced with enormous problems as a result of this mischief. However, our party still regards Brussels as a full part of Flanders in principle. If this were not to be done on historical or geographical grounds, it would be important for our own future to re-focus Brussels on Flanders. Brussels is our capital. It is an international centre and an important economic hub that is closely linked to our Flemish economy. That is why we want to remain in solidarity with the people of Brussels, including with regard to social security. We want to offer the people of Brussels a fair deal, without forcing them to choose a subnationality. The spirit of this proposal is based on Brussels as the capital of Flanders, also in the future. I therefore call on you to support this resolution as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u102	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. I've been informed that Minister De Croo is on his way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u104	Mr President, my co-rapporteur Mr Bertels and I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u105	Both rapporteurs therefore refer to the written report. Can we begin the general discussion in the absence of the Minister? After all, there was not much discussion about this. [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give my brief explanation of my bank. The sp.a Group will, of course, support the draft because transparency in cross-border tax arrangements can and will make a substantial contribution to the fight against international tax avoidance and fraud. Nevertheless, we believe that on three points of the draft, we have missed the opportunity to be more ambitious. First of all, we would have liked to see reporting on domestic tax arrangements, which Parliament asked for as early as 2009 on the basis of one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into the major tax fraud cases. Secondly, we believe that the concept of a tax advantage is too narrowly defined, because it is linked only to direct taxes, although the directive does not exclude that indirect taxes are also subject to reporting obligations. Thirdly, for our group, it is fine that there is a high minimum sanction of EUR 5,000 on non-compliance with reporting obligations. However, the maximum sanctions seem to us to be far too low, especially when compared to the sanctions imposed in the neighbouring countries. In the Netherlands it is 830,000 euros; in Luxembourg it is 250,000 euros. In this design, it is only 100,000 euros. Mr President, that is why, together with Mr Bertels and Mr Bayet, I have tabled a number of amendments to Articles 18, 31, 33 and 47 to increase the maximum fine in our country to the level of the fine in Luxembourg, namely EUR 250 000.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u107	Mr President, there is indeed still aggressive tax planning and a number of structures certainly deserve special attention. Fortunately, these are less and less in view of the measures taken since 2011. In the meantime, we have already come to Europe's sixth directive to share more information. These structures can be addressed in two ways. We could opt for total European harmonisation. But that would be unwise in our view, because it is also necessary to take account of the fact that Europe is a unity in diversity and that Member States also have their own identity. The problem can also be addressed in a better way, namely by sharing the information. That is exactly what the directive says that we are going to implement today. We support the principle of the directive, in particular with a view to sharing information and increasing cooperation between administrations. There is, in our opinion, a gap in transposition. A piece of the file must also be translated. There are two discussions about this. First of all, who is responsible for the payment? Secondly, what happens if the translation turns out to be inaccurate? In the design, the entire burden lies with our companies. We don't think that's the best choice. This must also be partly with the administration, also because it is linked to the sanctioning regime, as sp.a pointed out. What happens if something has been imprecisely translated? Can there be heavy fines? We had tabled an amendment on this point. That was voted down in committee. That is why we abstained in committee and why we will do so again today. I would like to comment on the amendment of sp.a, which seeks to increase the sanctioning measure. Indeed, some Member States of the European Union impose much more severe sanctions, but others also have less severe sanctions. I believe that the system, which is on the table today, is in line with the Belgian fiscal environment. We agree with this, because the proposed sanction measure is effective, proportionate and yet it seems enough deterrent to address the problem. In short, we support the sanction regime, but not the sp.a. amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u108	Our group also supports transposition. If we want to go for fair taxation, we need to be able to fight aggressive constructions and optimisation schemes. That can only be done if one has knowledge of it. This knowledge is automatically acquired by the transposition rather than ad hoc. I believe that can only be positive. I would also like to comment on the amendment of sp.a, and in particular on the increase in the sanctioning measure for cases which are not declared or are declared too late. In the draft, the sanctioning measure for a non-declaration is already much higher than for an incomplete declaration. The Council of State also made a comment on that difference. If this sanctions measure is further increased, everything becomes even more unbalanced, and that can create problems. That is why we will not support that amendment. We do, of course, support transposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u109	Mr President, I would also like to comment on the fines. We would like to stress that the high minimum fines will also apply to infringements that are not committed in bad faith. It is also a question of sanctions for non-compliance with administrative obligations and not of sanctions for the constructions themselves. We will therefore not support the amendments. As far as language is concerned, we are of course following the N-VA. We shall abstain in the vote on the whole. I want to be very clear. We do not have a problem with transparency, but we do mind if sanctions are sanctioned, even if they are in good faith. I would also like to emphasise one aspect: it should not be forgotten that this is about regulation vis-à-vis intermediaries such as tax and accounting offices. We do not forget that two thirds of these companies are located in Flanders. The legislation is mainly directed against Dutch-speaking intermediaries, against Flemish companies in Flanders. We must be aware of this, as Flemish politicians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u110	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u111	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (791/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (791/4) The bill has 62 articles. The draft law contains 62 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u112	• 10 • Joris Vandenbroucke cs (791/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u113	• 12 • Joris Vandenbroucke cs (791/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u114	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u115	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 18, 31, 33 and 47.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u116	Article adopted by article: 1 to 17, 19 to 30, 32, 34 to 46 and 48 to 62.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u118	Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u120	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (766/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (766/1) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs were Mr Dieter Vanbesien and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u123	I refer again to the written report, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u124	Mr. Vanbesien follows your reference to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u125	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in favour of the next edition of the provisional twelfths. In July I stood here once and then I had one message for the government: Government, you are not a real government, you are a minority cabinet in current affairs. Ceci n'est pas un governement. Act like it and don't pretend you're a real government. Make sure that the provisional twelfths for which they are intended are used to make things run, but not to implement new policies. My question was raised at the time, because there was a new policy, including a laxer migration policy and a laxer language premium policy in Brussels. In October, when I was discussing a new disc of provisional twelfths, I was standing here again, with the same story and the appeal to the government not to abuse the provisional twelfths in order to pursue new policies, but to do what is technically necessary. Unfortunately, once again, my advice has not been followed. In October I also launched a second appeal, a call to colleagues in the Chamber, not to follow the bad example of the government itself, i.e. not to abuse the provisional twelfths. For the provisional twelfths there are reasons for existence: they must ensure that the machine is running. In addition, of course, parliamentary work needs to be done, in committee meetings, where laws can be amended, which then, if a legislative amendment has a budgetary impact, have to be translated into the provisional twelfths. With N-VA we remain consistent in our story. We want to return to that responsibility and to that reasonableness. We believe that politics must be done very firmly in Parliament, even more than what is happening today, but we also want it to be done correctly. The provisional twelfths shall not be used for adventure. On the contrary, we must proceed as the process should be by first adapting the legislation in the committees and then considering its budgetary implications in the provisional twelfths. That was not the case, however, and it is not what the government is doing, nor was it in the previous discussion of provisional twelfths in October. We were hoping to see something different now. The committee can and must work much harder. A year ago, the Parliamentary House was on its feet, because then the Marrakesh Pact was and would be approved here. Afterwards we saw that other agreements made in the government, more specifically regarding the job deal in the Summer Agreement, intended to boost the activity rate of the inhabitants, did not seem to have to be implemented so urgently. Those appointments have been dragging on a bit. That is why we are pushing into the accelerator today. Today, therefore, we are presenting various proposals combined with new proposals. Mr Jan Spooren spoke about this in the media today. We are proposing a package of measures that can raise EUR 5 billion in the year 2024 and EUR 12 billion in 2030. It is money that we can use very well with this budget. They are proposals for tackling unemployment, employment integration jobs and flexibility for people who are having a bit of a hard time at work and who would like to do a different job. Our proposals will ensure that more people can get to work. What do we see today? If we look at all the people between 20 and 64 years of age, 2 million of them are not working today. That's a huge group. With our activation package, we will send at least 10% of this towards a job and we will ensure that this activity rate goes to 75% by 2024 and even to 80% by 2030. More ambition, the employment pact, Jan Spooren's proposals lie there and are concerned about the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to call on all colleagues to do a serious job of this quickly. It will only benefit our budget. In addition to this general appeal, I would like to briefly explain our amendments. Why have we tabled amendments? Precisely to take the new policy out of the provisional twelfths, to neutralize what is an improper use of those provisional twelfths. We therefore have a number of amendments on migration. As far as Fedasil is concerned, we see that the costs of shelter continue to explode and that Minister De Block remains eagerly looking for new places to open. In the meantime, we see that the EUR 260 million bill for asylum has long since been insufficient. We are already up to 221 million extra, on top of the 260 million planned. We cannot and will not support that policy, just because it is a breach of the principle of current affairs. Minister De Block herself says that she does not want to pursue Mr Francken's policy, that she wants to do it differently, that she prefers other priorities. She says she doesn't do current cases, she does other cases. That can't be, that's not her jurisdiction, that's not what she should be doing. That is why we have tabled amendments. Those are sensible amendments, by the way. A further 86 million is requested on top of the 60 million. We do not want to delete the whole 86 million, but only part of it. We want to keep 40 million because we have a number of annual contracts that have to be paid in January. It is logical that they are being paid now, but we will also logically ensure that the following discs are not paid again for the provisional twelfths and that we do not receive double invoices on top of the multi-invoices. Our second amendment concerns Fedasil and return. We were genuinely shocked there. We already knew that there was a laxer migration policy. We already knew that the costs for Fedasil and asylum care continue to accumulate. We did not know, however, that this government apparently has less ambition in terms of return. The provisional twelfths were normally provided for 2.5 million euros for return. Suddenly, 810,000 euros went off, 30% less resources for return. There will be more resources for asylum reception and less for return. We asked Mrs De Block why. Her answer was that we are working with Frontex, the European Return Agency, and that Frontex is working more efficiently and cheaper so that we have to spend less money on it. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be news to you that we are doing much more in the field of return policy than working with Frontex. It is good that Frontex works better, it is good that this costs us less, but with the funds released we can take more national initiatives on return or we can launch more projects together with Frontex. That is why we want to delete the lower budget that the government wants to provide for return and to allocate more money to the Foreign Office to organise the return, with an additional 2 million on top of the 2.5 million normally foreseen. Third, additional support for the Foreign Office. We had an amendment to provide an additional 3 million for the Foreign Office. There has been a hearing in the Committee on the Interior, where the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Mr Freddy Roosemont, has come to testify. He referred to the fact that it is becoming increasingly difficult for him to check the residence cards of a limited duration of one year. There are more and more cases where these cards need to be checked, because we are faced in part with new judgments of the European Court of Justice on family reunification. In the past, if it was not decided within the time limit, the residence card would be issued automatically. Europe states that this cannot be done, that this goes against European legislation, against the European directive, and that it must be monitored. That's a huge extra workload for the Foreign Office. Mr Franky Demon from CD&V referred to the fact that also the issue of the permis unique, the single permit, with the linking of the work permit to the residence permit, takes far too long. That's right. There too, the Foreign Affairs Office could use some extra resources to do those checks, so that we are sure that people who are allowed to enter have the right to be here and that we also know that people who do not meet the conditions do not come through our borders. That is why we have asked for an additional 3 million in support of the services involved in the Foreign Affairs Office. The Minister for the Budget said in committee that the money is settled. Those funds would be included in the interdepartmental commissions. After that, there was some doubt about it. The Minister will be able to testify on that. He referred to a meeting in the government three weeks ago. He said that it was decided at the time that the 3 million would be there. In the government, there was no mention of return, entry and residence or additional support for the Foreign Office. At that time, however, there was talk of asylum reception, hence a tweet with a critical question from our former Secretary of State, Theo Francken. The Minister for the Budget also replied on Twitter. I am pleased, Minister, that you have confirmed what you said in committee, namely that there will be 3 million, not for asylum or reception, but indeed for more control and therefore for the services within the Department of Foreign Affairs which will have to carry out the checks. It would be nice, Minister, if you could repeat those words here later so that we can read them not only on Twitter, but also in the Integrated Report. I come to another amendment on language premiums in Brussels. In the Michel administration, we have always been very critical of this. We then had Jan Jambon as Minister of the Interior. If you pass a language certificate and prove to be bilingual, you are entitled to that premium. That has always been our principle. However, this evidence has not been provided in the past. That is why we have always said that we will not give the money either. Suddenly, however, there has been a change of policy in the government of current affairs. All of a sudden, that evidence was obviously provided. You may understand our suspicions in that regard. What's with the turnaround? It's become a ping-pong game. It's been going back and forth for a few months. However, there is a simple way of explaining things, namely through the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors may be asked to monitor the government's statements so that we are sure that people who have obtained a certificate will receive a language bonus, but are equally certain that people who are not bilingual will not receive that bilingual bonus. We have tabled a resolution for this in Parliament. It's been considered. We call on everyone to do what is obvious, namely to adopt that resolution. In committee we also had a debate on police pensions. In 2016, following the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014, we set up a new regime, namely an end-of-life system for the operational staff of the integrated police. So we have a legal basis for providing these police officers with this pension system. The legal basis is there, but to our surprise, funding for that system is not included in the provisional twelfths. The law says that we should do so, but the pennies in the provisional twelfths do not follow. That is why we had tabled an amendment to ensure that funding was made available. There too, the Minister for the Budget has been able to reassure us on several occasions: there will be an arrangement that will effectively finance the statute and therefore there will be money for our police officers in this area. You have also made a commitment, Minister, that you will certainly follow the matter further technically for the next provisional twelfths, if there is one. We will certainly keep your word so that we can guarantee that the pensions of our police officers will be paid and that they will be paid effectively by the federal government, the government that will have to cover those costs. I'm gonna take a look at our voting position. In view of the commitment to provide additional resources for the Foreign Office for the control and useful follow-up of work and residence permits; and in view of the declarations to provide sufficient funds for the pensions of our police officers, we will abstain from the final vote today; because it includes a number of measures that are important to us. We have done so in committee and will do so in plenary. I will conclude with a comment on our voting position. The last two times we voted against the provisional twelfths. Today we shall abstain. I hear in the corridors that this vote against is being abused by several politicians, that it is being qualified as an absolute proof that the N-VA would not want to enter the federal government. Nothing could be further from the truth. We have every ambition to weigh on the formation of government. We have every ambition to give the Flemings the policy they have voted for. Our chairman, Bart De Wever, has also been very clear in this regard. We are ready to take initiative when asked. In any case, we are available. There was already a meeting yesterday with the new informers on the formation of a federal government. We are ready to assume our responsibilities and we are also ready for a more respectful and correct approach to every issue in Parliament. That means two things. Firstly, stop performing a circus around the provisional twelfths and bring them back to what they really should be, namely: a technical, neutral political policy instrument and not a method of doing politics along the back door. Secondly, put your job on the committees. Jan Spooren's package is there and the first priority can reach EUR 5 billion by 2024. Let's all get to work on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u126	Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in order to prepare for this speech, I have gone back to the last discussions on a real budget. It was December 2017. It was in December 2017 that we were able, for the last time, to seriously debate a budget in this Parliament. A party decided to leave the government a year later, just before the vote on the 2019 budget was voted. The same party is teaching all the others today. Budget discussions in a democracy, in a parliament, are essential. This is the time when choices are made, depending on certain opinions: the opinion of the European Commission, an interesting indicator, even if we do not always agree. The opinion of the Court of Auditors, which since the beginning of the last parliamentary term, has pointed out very regularly poorly assessed measures with regard to their budgetary impact, with poorly substantiated revenues. The Court of Auditors' lighting has not been available since December 2017. Budget discussions are, first and foremost, the time to make policy choices: more resources for health care, healthcare staff; investments in mobility compared to real emergencies; fairer taxation; effective fight against tax fraud; new initiatives in all areas requiring urgent responses, such as climate, solidarity and mobility. So, since December 2017, we have been deprived of this real political and democratic debate. No public institution can live seriously and indefinitely in a system of provisional twelfths. No communes, no provinces, no regions, let alone the federal state. It is therefore becoming urgent – and it is an appeal that we make to all reasonable parties – to have a real budgetary debate in which we could deal with key issues. Ministers, what are the reasons for this fiscal drift, the deterioration of our state's structural balance? Are these past measures that have not been properly funded, such as the shift tax or corporate tax reform? What are the urgent steps needed to correct the shooting and ensure adequate funding for the essential functions of the federal government and for the emergencies that we face? At what pace and at what level do we decide to correct the fiscal trajectory to leave room for investment policies and the support of measures now needed? We are ready to have this debate seriously and we are asking for it. I would like to express my hope here that it will be the last provisional twelfths that we have to vote at the beginning of this Parliament and that, finally, a serious, full budget will be presented to this Parliament. On the content of the text to be voted on earlier, I would like to make three substantive remarks. The first concerns the choices made by the minority and current government not to follow strictly the logic of the provisional twelfths, but to increase or decrease certain allowances according to needs. This choice was strictly controlled by the Court of Auditors, which states that all the choices made by the government and different from strict compliance with the provisional twelfths were justified, including the additional investments for Fedasil. Indeed, reception needs must be met. Moreover, artificially, budgets had been presented as lower in 2018 by the use of reserves. The choice had also been made to close structurally necessary reception facilities. We therefore support the choice of the minority government in day-to-day business on this issue. My second point of substance is the following. I would like once again to express my satisfaction at the inclusion in the budget, in accordance with the vote expressed by this Parliament, of the means for the so-called White Blouses fund. The means are passed on to the first three quarters. We are asking, but it makes sense, that they be passed on throughout the year. These means shall be reinstated. You know that a few weeks ago our Parliament adopted, thanks in particular to the work of our group and my colleague Laurence H annoyance, a way of allocating these funds to all sectors: public hospitals, private hospitals, independent nurses. We are all aware that the mechanism decided upon will have to be evaluated, adjusted and improved in the dialogue with stakeholders in the field: health operators and workers' representatives. There's an appointment clause to do it. In fact, it seemed to us essential that the amounts be re-registered. We are counting on our colleagues in the Committee on Health, who have worked very well on the subject, to be able to adjust the mechanism. This was not a rush, either to confirm the mechanism as decided, or to change it. It will have to be done without delay, but without haste either. We also support the proposal put forward by the government, in particular by the Budget Minister. A third question was rightly raised in committee by the colleagues of the N-VA. This can happen. This is the question of the continuity of the financing of the pre-pension non-activity plan for police officers. Following the amendment tabled and the ensuing debate, the Budget Minister gave an explanation and made a political commitment: the situation could be corrected by the end of 2020 and he wanted to be able to do so, regardless of the exercise of the provisional twelfths. We have taken note of that. There is no reason not to trust this word. He is bound by what he said in committee. I'm sure he'll repeat it here. And if he is not the minister for the budget in the future, I think there is a majority in this Parliament (in any case you can count on the Ecolo-Groen Group) to find a fair solution in this area. That is why, while considering that the question was properly raised, we did not support the amendment tabled on this subject. But we will be careful that it is transposed in a legal way. In conclusion, although we have challenged the 2018 budget as its predecessors, we will again vote on these three provisional twelfths, hoping, as I said, that they will be the last. We will do so because we are a responsible group and parties and seeking solutions. This is an attitude that we have adopted in the last few months, in contrast to those who are responsible for the crisis and who devote all their energy to trying to blame others and trying to further aggravate the crisis. This will never be the choice of environmentalists. We are on the side of solutions and will therefore support these provisional twelfths, hoping that they will be the last, and that by March a real budget will be presented by an authentic majority, composed of reasonable and resolutely forward-looking parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium is becoming more and more Greece on the North Sea. The Court of Auditors recently came to the destructive conclusion that the figures of the federal budget are totally unreliable. According to the Court of Auditors, the budget is so sloppy that some items are up to EUR 25 billion. So Belgium excels not only in ungovernability, but also in maladministration. The European Commission, for its part, gave a heavy blow to the incomplete budget last month. The Commission also clearly demonstrated how things started to go wrong in 2017. According to the Commission, the derailing budget is indeed the legacy of Charles Michel and his Swedish government with Minister of Finance Johan Van Overtveldt. Already in 2017, there were fewer revenues and rising expenditures. In 2018, the Michel government still pretended that the budget would be in balance from 2020. The Monitoring Committee even officially endorsed this in a report. According to members of the same Monitoring Committee, the chairman was pressured to present the figures in a rosy manner. That is a Greek tragedy, colleagues. A number of members even openly rebelled and stated in the report that they did not agree with the conclusions. The rebellious experts of the Monitoring Committee were right. The budgets of the Michel government were hot air. It is just on those quaducary figures, the last approved budget, that the provisional appropriations are based. Those kaduke figures form the basis of what we are discussing here today. That creates very little confidence. As in Greece, the responsible politicians are completely free. In Belgium it is even worse. The responsible politicians even get promoted. In the meantime, the failed minister of the total derailed budget was promoted to Prime Minister of this country. That's the way it is in Belgium. The fellow ministers who are all responsible were given a golden parachute towards Europe or towards the Flemish government. That's the way it is in Belgium. The deficit is now close to EUR 12 billion, ladies and gentlemen. Imagine that. This is more than what this country spends on the army, the police, the justice system and the SNCB together. That is the huge problem we face. The politicians here in the hemisphere seem not to be awake. Mr President, you can see it. During the debate on the budget, the plenary was half empty. Apart from the climate denial, which some hysterics in Parliament are killing and burning, there is also the budget denial. The leaked notes of informant Paul Magnette also showed this. He had absolutely no idea where he would land with his budget, regardless of whether it turns purple-yellow or purple-green. The tax denial has no political color. The frivolity has been baked into the formation table by all political parties today. All traditional parties lack the courage to tell the people what the real problems are in this country. All traditional parties lack the courage to put the scissors into what is no longer affordable. However, a serious budget is the essence of any policy. The correct application of provisional appropriations is the basis of a government in current cases. At this point, the draft financial law before us is in a very bad way. Colleagues, it must be clear that the Flemish interest that exists here will not approve. At the end of November, the Immo Royal file made it painfully clear that the taxpayer must pay for the royal property. That is an unacceptable preferential treatment. Now we see in the draft law that the civil list and the donations to the royal family are already paid out for two quarters. It's legal. In other words, the provisional appropriations apply to everyone, but apparently not to the royal family, which means unacceptable preferential treatment. Moreover, more and more money is being spent on the reception of illegal immigrants and asylum seekers. Mrs De Block not only hopes to pass the register again, but also asks for more and more money. We already invest EUR 260 million too much in the asylum shelter. Today, Mrs De Block hopes to double her budget for the first quarter of 2020. For the first quarter, it is now asking for an increase of EUR 87 million on top of the EUR 65 million budget. This is more than a doubling and an increase of 134 %. In the budget figures alone, it seems crystal clear: the asylum crisis has never left. The Flemish Interest is convinced that the only way to save significantly in this country is to reduce the flow of asylum. Less inflow and more outflow combined with stepped access to social security for newcomers will lead to huge savings and healthier public finances. The provisional appropriations are also being negotiated with the Court of Auditors, which means that there is actually some margin for negotiation. That margin is always used to take the edge off, that margin is always used to spend more and more. Last week, for example, the government was not shy at all from extending State aid for the distribution of newspapers and magazines for two years in current cases. The 2018 budget involved a grant of 178 million euros. In current cases, therefore, EUR 178 million is earmarked for a grant which is completely obsolete. Moreover, this State aid constitutes unfair competition for daily dealers and modern, exclusively digital media. The government is clearly unaware of this and neither is the traditional parties. The only people who are concerned today are the Flemish voters, especially now that they have seen the plans of the new Flemish government. That Flemish coalition agreement was a barrel of broken promises, unannounced savings and hidden tax increases. That makes us fear the worst of the federal government agreement. It makes us fear the worst of the round of savings and the flood of new taxes that awaits us. In the Magnette note there was already a first taste, a flight tax, nothing more or less than a plague tax. Anyone who wants to travel once a year with his carefully saved money will be charged extra. Thank you for your service. In Belgium, there is only one certainty, ladies and gentlemen, that the PS, with the support of all the Walloon parties, wants to forward the invoice to the Flemings. The tax burden in this country is among the highest in the world. Seventy percent of it is paid for by the Flemings. That is the reality. Some Flemish politicians in the hemisphere have clearly not yet understood the message of 26 May. They will have big eyes if they are punished once again in the next elections, which we regard as speeding up. The question is clear for the Flemish parties. Are they going along the path of the southern countries, with more shortages due to less work, more public spending and more profit-making, or are we following the northern countries and opting for economy, efficiency and sustainability?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u128	Mr President, I hear and am concerned that the three-quarters of the budget debate is on migration issues and that these issues come from you, sir, and your colleagues at the N-VA. I would therefore like to recall one thing: of course, I hear the stigma that you are constantly developing and it becomes difficult to hear. I am no longer surprised, but always so shocked when – whether you or your colleagues – you go up to the gallery and use this political speech. I regret that you are instrumentalizing Parliament as a forum for other parties, which was done before the N-VA. This is not the place, Mr. President! We are tribesmen and here we defend values on behalf of all Belgian citizens as well as programmes that we do not necessarily share, I am convinced. But Parliament is certainly not a media forum to talk about the future rainbow coalition or any other coalition. If you want to talk about it, ask to meet the informants present, try something and then we'll see. On migration – I'll come back again if I can afford to, but it's terrible to always have to remember the same thing – you're always stigmatizing the stranger. I see a situation that is very real. Today, there are people on the street. I see in people not their skin colour but their situation. They are on the streets at the gates of winter because at some point, the former Secretary of State, whether he likes it or not, has not assumed and made bad choices that are now being carried by the government in day-to-day affairs, by Mrs De Block, and by them alone. I also want to say that these choices, they make them. These choices are human. There are laws and we cannot leave people on the street who come to seek asylum. Find me a legal solution! I don't see any. Whether for or against, there are signed agreements, including the Geneva Convention, and Belgium must honour its commitments. When I hear that the solution is to increase the number of forced returns, to close our borders, etc. – if it is a solution for no more migration tomorrow, it is your option but not mine or that of the Socialist Party, but in any case I do not see there a very short-term solution to reduce the situation we are going through, situation with people on the street and in difficulty. I would also like to recall that the cost of Mr Franken's mismanagement amounts to EUR 100 million linked to arrears in the asylum procedure because we have dismissed staff. I am surprised, in this case, that the N-VA is now asking for staff from the OE and CGRA when it is the same N-VA that has asked for a reduction in the framework, which is now costing EUR 100 million estimated for 2020 because the infrastructure is saturated. I think it's time to change the debate. We have responsibilities as parliamentarians, as governments, to take on what we have signed, including the Geneva Convention, by welcoming those entitled to be welcomed. After that, the other debates will involve speeding up the procedures and it will be beneficial to all, humanly first and to show that Belgium is a country that takes its responsibilities. I hear your speech and I find your withdrawal incredible. You are announcing that all the Belgian difficulty today is migration. First point. Second point: the difficulties are also due to Walloons, to Walloon precariousness. The third point of your speech, sir, and here I am addressing the Flemish voter, it will be the Flemish prejudices, which you will also put on the bench! That's what you'll do!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u129	I think that the PS should make it clear to its voters that in the end we do not have the money to help the Waal or the Fleming in need, but that, apparently, we always have the money in the proposed budget to help newcomers. I also belong to Mr Rigot to ask for a debate on the cost of migration. We accept the outspoken hand of the PS to conduct the debate on the cost of migration. We want to have that debate to the full. In the Netherlands, for example, this calculation has been made. It has been calculated that an ordinary Dutchman contributes about 43.000 euros to the Dutch state during his lifetime. A newcomer costs 76,000 euros to the Dutch state during his lifetime. That is the reality. Those are the figures we are asking for in Belgium. We have been asking for the figures on the cost of migration for a long time. Let us then have the full debate on the cost of migration here in plenary, in our sitting, because migration has a huge impact on our budget. That is also something that should be told to the Walloon voters. As always, the Flemish interest has tabled a number of amendments to the draft provisional appropriations, which ultimately involve savings. We certainly invite the Flemish parties to be consistent and to approve them with us. The public is well aware that today's deficits are tomorrow's taxes. We have the impression that many politicians still do not realize the enormous responsibility we have. By the way, we just heard about the colleague of the PS. Something must be done quickly and there are actually no dozens of scenarios, colleagues. It is known how the cards are in this unmanageable country. There are only two possibilities. Either they decide to rule eventually, or we go to new elections. Let us follow up on what was proposed last week by Marc Uyttendaele, not unknown to the PS, to hold a referendum on the future of Belgium. Let us organise such a referendum on the preservation of Belgium, but in the form of early elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u130	Colleagues, what is ahead is a technical budget, the provisional twelfths prepared by the public authorities, validated and approved by the Court of Auditors. It will ensure that we can continue until March next year. In substance, the provisional twelfths are based on the last approved budget, that of 2018. As the current government party and as the government party of the Swedish coalition, we will of course approve those provisional twelfths. Nevertheless, there are a number of concerns, a number of challenges. The economic engine's sputtering. Brexit's coming up. There are the challenges of ageing. The amounts paid to the Communities are increasing by 1.2 billion as a result of the special financing law. Last but not least, we got a yellow map of Europe. If you get a yellow card, you have to be careful. We need to raise the bar much higher. We must aim higher, not only because we have committed ourselves to this at international level, but also for future generations. It is therefore a bit of an open door kicking in: it is time for action, it is time to find solutions. Not on Twitter with tweets, but around the table. In the first instance with the informators who have been appointed. We hope, for example, that a new government will soon be established with a number of parties, so that the new government can take the necessary measures. Then this is the last time we have to approve the provisional twelfths here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u131	Mr President, I would like to speak on a particular aspect of these provisional appropriations: the White Blouse Fund. The Budget Minister had committed to enter an amount of approximately EUR 100 million for the three months. The commitment has been fulfilled, we wanted to report it. This will have an impact on our vote because we are going to vote in favour while we have regularly abstained on these provisional appropriations. That said, the work is not over, as a series of modalities have yet to be worked out to see how this money will be allocated. That is why I call on colleagues to meet us in the working group, if possible at the beginning of next year, to implement a definitive solution for this white blouse fund. Some colleagues say that it is easy to spend, but that it is also necessary to be able to finance these expenses. In this context, the PTB has funding proposals for health care. One of our proposals, aimed at finding money in health care, will be taken into consideration today and we will ask for urgency for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a calm statement in peace and serenity. We are effectively standing here for a new disc provisional twelfths based on the last approved budget. That is indeed a budget of 2018. That was not our budget, but it is the legal basis that we must use for the provisional twelfths. I agree with everyone who says that we should be able to have a thorough, in-depth discussion of our budgetary situation, a state of affairs on revenue and expenditure, on fair taxation, on the reduction of debt, on what necessary investments we must make and on what expenditure we want and do not want to do. The real budget debate is needed. Unfortunately, we're not there yet. Sp.a is a responsible party. Those provisional twelfths, the appropriations for the first three months of 2020, are necessary for the country to move forward. Our state must be able to continue to work, the administrations must be able to work and pensions must be able to be paid. Pensions for pensioners in Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia and the German-speaking Community must be available. For the Fleming in distress, the Waal in distress, the Brusselser in distress and the German speaking in need, for everyone in our country, the state must be able to continue its work. I have already said it to the colleagues of N-VA in committee. These provisional twelfths also ensure that the Communities and the Regions of Flanders, Wallonia, the Brussels-Capital Region and the German-speaking Community receive their contributions. These provisional twelfths ensure that a large part of the money goes to the sub-areas where it is to end up on the basis of the Finance Act, to those sub-areas. In a period of ongoing business, too, public institutions must be able to carry out their basic tasks and citizens must continue to be able to rely on these public institutions. The Court of Auditors was ready and clear. It's been mentioned here for a while. The legislation on provisional appropriations has been correctly applied. The justifications of the deviations, in plus and in minus, are correct compared to the mathematical deviation of the three twelfths. That's what the Court of Auditors attested. We cannot add much to that, we can only see that the legislation has been correctly applied. In short, I would like to raise two substantive points. Firstly, as the government has committed itself in current cases, the funds for the care staff fund for nurses, care professionals and nurses have been correctly included in the first draft of provisional twelfths for 2020. With the working group, we have indeed committed ourselves to ensuring, as in 2019, that these funds can be properly spent by 2020. We will look for the best possible techniques to achieve the objective that we all share: more hands on and around the bed. The working group will take this task very seriously in the coming weeks. Secondly, as far as the amendments are concerned, I refer to the extensive discussion in committee. One point that we raised in committee, and which Mr Vanrobaeys has already asked the Minister for Pensions, is the end-of-life system for the federal and local police, mentioned in the jargon NAVAP. We will check whether the government is correctly applying the implementation to which it has committed itself in current cases. Several ministers have committed themselves to ensuring that municipalities will receive their finances in good time. We will ensure that this is done, but I trust the ministers with their word on the correct compliance with that commitment in the first few months of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u133	Mr President, I shall be very brief. Bis repetita non placent, repeat bored. I think we have already dealt with these concerns in committee meetings and in previous plenary sessions. I should just like to say that the Court has already approved provisional twelfths for the fifth consecutive time that this is no longer healthy. That is not really the intention of provisional twelfths either. What worries me the most is a certain desperation, disinterest and fatalism that occurs among the population. She feels like we're not here anymore. I therefore hope that today will be the last time that there will be provisional twelfths. Our group naturally approves the provisional twelfths in the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u134	Does any of the Members still ask to speak? [[No.]] I give the floor to the government, in particular to the Minister for the Budget, Mr Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u135	Mr President, I would like to thank all the groups that have participated very constructively in the debate in committee on this finance law. Several questions are asked here. Some have already been tabled in committee, but, as I am asked, I am quickly repeating the elements, so that there is no ambiguity. Mr Loones, as far as Fedasil is concerned, the budget is increasing, simply because we have taken into account the volume effect. As there are more applicants, it is necessary to adapt the credits to Fedasil in order to accommodate the applicants with dignity. I can only see a volume effect. The credit is therefore adapted to the volume effect. As far as returns are concerned, as I have already explained to you in committee, more than before, the services of Frontex, which is a European service, are used. As a result, credits are lower for returns, as a vehicle partly paid for by Europe is used. Therefore, if I may say so, the savings on this post have been directed towards other purposes, including closed centres. It is simply the use of a European tool rather than a Belgian tool. We must not see this, I believe a change of policy. It is simply a relevant use of European resources. As far as the EUR 3 million is concerned, as I have already done in committee, I confirm that these are well provided for in the interdepartmental provision. There is €2 million for the Aliens Office, which manages the files, monitors and performs repatriations where appropriate, and €1 million for the CGRA, which manages the files a little faster, as there will be a little more resources. I therefore confirm that the EUR 3 million is well provided for in this interdepartmental provision. For the civil list, the government applies article 5 of the Act of 27 November 2013. We can all imagine changing things for the civil list, but in our day-to-day affairs, the government applies the law that is in place and, as far as I am concerned, I do not intend to amend the civil list law. This may be possible in later reflection, but it is not in any case a debate that must take place during current business. That is why I do not agree with your amendment to amend the civil list. With regard to police pensions, NAPAP (pre-pension non-activity compensation), I confirm that there is no need for a budget at the beginning of 2020. Besides, I told you the numbers at the beginning of the week. I recall that NAPAP payments are often executed in the second half of the year. It has even been shown that this year they were paid faster than in 2018. I hope we can feed the credits for NAPAP in the second half of the year. However, the problem in this regard is neither the law nor the budget, since NAPAPs will be provided either in a regular budget, if a government is formed, or in a Q2 if necessary. On the other hand, there is a small piece of legislation missing that would simply make it possible to use the pool reserves of the municipalities to make a transfer. Clearly, there is a missing link between NAPAPs and these reserves. That is why I would like to inform you that the MR Group has just tabled a text. I think, Benoît, that it is subject to the signature of all colleagues who wish to do so. In this way, this technical aspect of the file can be resolved so that the NAPAP procedure can be concluded quickly. The addition of this piece will help solve the problem as quickly as possible. Mr Gilkinet, thank you for your comments and will answer the question of white blouses, particularly put by you and Mr. Van Hees. Indeed, we have planned EUR 100.5 million for the first quarter of 2020. Here too, a law will have to be drawn up in order to be able to use these credits. As indicated during the committee discussion in recent weeks, my office and that of Maggie De Block are at the disposal of the working group in order to find the best formula for this purpose. Of course, if day-to-day business continues, we will expect a second quarter in Q2. Mr Vermeersch, as I have already said, the Court of Auditors has not made any comments on the draft budget. On the other hand, it has made very clear criticisms of the accounts. We agree on that. But this is about the budget. Let's not confuse the accounts with the budget. Any communal representative has already realized the difference between the two. In this case, therefore, it is not the budget that is criticized by the Court of Auditors, but the accounts. Mr President, I believe that I have answered all the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u136	Mr President, Minister, the accounts are not correct and there are EUR 25 billion on certain items, and you say here that you have absolute confidence in the accuracy of the budget. I can hardly believe that. The Court of Auditors was devastating about accounting. It even said that if the report had to be submitted to the European Commission in 2018, it would not give a positive report. And you dare say out loud in this sitting that you have absolute confidence in the budget. I take note of that, but I wouldn't put my hand in the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u137	We have received the Court of Auditors' report. We have agreed that the report will be discussed in the Sub-Committee on Audit and that the various sections will be discussed there, in the presence of the various members of the Government responsible for this matter. That is the agreement we have made internally, Mr Vermeersch. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u138	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (793/41+1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (793/4+1) The bill has 44 articles. The draft law contains 44 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u139	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 20 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) 21 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 22 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) 23 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 24 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 25 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 19 Sander Loones cs (793/5) • 26 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 17 • Sander Loones cs (793/5) • 27 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5) • 18 Sander Loones cs (793/5) 28 Wouter Vermeersch cs (793/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u140	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u141	Sustained: the amendments and Article 17 and the annexed tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u142	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 16 and 18 to 44.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments, the article and the reserved tables as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the article that has been retained and the tables that have been retained and the whole of it will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u144	By letter dated 27 November 2019, the President of the Flemish Parliament sent us a motion for a declaration of discrimination on ideological and philosophical grounds (Art. 4 of the Act of 3 July 1974 on the distribution of members of the Legislative Chambers into linguistic groups and on various provisions relating to cultural councils for the French cultural community and for the Dutch cultural community). By letter dated 27 November 2019, the President of the Flemish Parliament sent the Chamber a motion for a declaration of discrimination for ideological and philosophical reasons (Article 4 of the Law of 3 July 1971 on the classification of the members of the legislative chambers into language groups and laying down various provisions concerning cultural councils for the Dutch cultural community and for the French cultural community). This motion concerns the proposal for a decree amending the decree of 7 July 2017 granting and approving the sociocultural animation of adults (Doc. Talk. , Parl. Fl., 2019-20, No. 155/1). The motion concerns the proposal for a Decree amending the Decree of 7 July 2017 on the subsidy and recognition of socio-cultural adult work (Parl. St. Vl. Parl., 2019-20, nr. 155/1). On December 4, 2019, the Presidents of the Chamber, the Senate, the Parliament of the French Community and the Flemish Parliament, sitting in a college, declared the motion admissible. On 4 December 2019, the Presidents of the Chamber, the Senate, the Parliament of the French Community and the Flemish Parliament, sitting as a college declared the motion admissible. The decision of the College was transmitted to the Chamber by the President of the Flemish Parliament on 5 December 2019, No. 863/1. The decision of the College was transmitted to the Chamber by the President of the Flemish Parliament on 5 December 2019, No. 863/1. Pursuant to rule 164, No. 3 of the House's Rules of Procedure, the motion is forwarded to the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission, which is responsible for reporting by January 22, 2020. In accordance with Article 164, No. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall be forwarded to the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Commission, which shall be responsible for reporting by 22 January 2020. The House shall rule within 60 days of the day on which the motion was transmitted to it by the College. The Chamber shall deliver its opinion within 60 days of the day on which the motion was transmitted to it by the College.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u145	The next item is the appointment of a first Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee on Police Services. The next item is the appointment of one first Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 18 November 2019, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held the hearing of the candidates. Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 27 November 2019. On 18 November 2019 the candidates were heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019. Two nominations were submitted for this mandate. Given that Mr Wouter Benoit was appointed as the second alternate to Mr Jack Vissers during the plenary meeting on 5 December 2019, there is no longer a need for a vote for this term. Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. I therefore declare Mrs Ariane Braccio elected, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, as the first alternate of Mr Jack Vissers. Two applications were submitted for this mandate. Since Mr Wouter Benoit was appointed second alternate to Mr Jack Vissers at the plenary session of 5 December 2019, we should no longer vote in favour of this mandate. Indeed, there is only one candidate left for this mandate. As a result, Mrs Ariane Braccio, pursuant to Article 157 of the Treaty, 6, of the Rules of Procedure, appointed as the first alternate member of Mr Jack Vissers. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. Since a second Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee P is vacant, I propose that you publish a new call for candidates for this term in the Belgian Monitor. Since a mandate of second Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee P has not been filled out, I propose that you publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for this mandate. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u146	At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer the following proposals to the Committee on Justice: - the bill (Ms Darya Safaï, MM. Christoph D'Haese and Theo Francken, Ms Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Koen Metsu) amending Programme Law (I) of 24 December 2002 on the guardianship of unaccompanied foreign minors, No 247/1; - the bill (Ms. Vanessa Matz) amending Programme Law (I) of 24 December 2002, with regard to the guardianship of unaccompanied foreign minors, No. 280/1. At the request of the applicants, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposals to the Committee on Justice: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Darya Safai, Mr Christoph D'Haese and Theo Francken, Mrs Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Koen Metsu) amending the programme law (I) of 24 December 2002 on custody of unaccompanied minors, No. 247/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz) amending the Programme Act (I) of 24 December 2002, as regards custody of unaccompanied minors, No. 280/1. These proposals had previously been sent to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters. These legislative proposals were previously sent to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u147	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u148	Mrs. De Block, this morning we took action in your cabinet for the kiwi model. I read in the press your statement that the kiwi is not ripe. Well, I have good news: the kiwi is ripe! There's even a new variant, it's a variant that doesn't just come from New Zealand. The Netherlands, Denmark and Norway have also inspired us to put in place a new medication policy. As you know, one must reap a fruit when it is ripe. That is why we are asking for urgency. Given that the Monitoring Committee has calculated that maintaining the current policy will increase the cost of reimbursement of drugs by 30 per cent in the years to come, we need to find 1.4 billion. The press has also revealed that public support for research and development by pharmaceutical companies has increased from 14 per cent to 44 per cent in recent years. With the kiwi model, we propose a combination of policies in the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark or New Zealand that make medicines cheaper and a more rational and qualitative prescription based on the needs of patients. INAMI published this Friday the list of 25 medicines that cost it the most in 2018 and by applying the kiwi model to these 25 molecules alone, it would generate 400 million euros of savings. During the discussions on the white coat fund, we were told that we also needed to find recipes. So here is a proposal for smart savings for which we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u149	What is the proposal, Mrs Merckx? Can you repeat it, because I do not see it on the list of recitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u150	Mr President, this is the proposal for a law establishing an efficient, effective and accessible drug policy through the application of the kiwi model, No 848/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u151	You are therefore asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal to introduce an efficient, efficient and accessible pharmaceutical policy by applying the kiwi model, No. 848/1, tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u152	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be referred as a bill to the Senate. (734/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be sent to the Senate as a bill. (734/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u153	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly explain why the N-VA Group will abstain on this motion for a resolution. Of course, the N-VA fully agrees with the first two questions of the proposal, the question of dividing social security. That is also what I indicated in committee. It is and remains our deep conviction that who should pay must also determine. It is therefore only logical that we should call with great conviction for the social security of this country to be split up. However, the second question raised by the Flemish interest in the motion for a resolution is problematic. After all, the question is at odds with the adage 'who pays, determines'. We cannot agree to the question of making Flanders simply competent for social security in Brussels. In fact, this would mean that the Flemish families would have to pay for the socio-economic misery caused by the choices made and still being made by mainly French-speaking parties in Brussels. The N-VA wants to get rid of the transfers from Flanders to Wallonia. The Flemish Interest wants to organise transfers from Flanders to Brussels instead, where the same French-speaking people swing the stick. I must confess that we are somewhat surprised by this attitude. The proposal is bad for Flanders and the Flemings. That is why the N-VA is abstaining from the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u155	I have already heard your explanation of vote in committee, but I am sorry. It's a missed opportunity. I expected more courage from the N-VA... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u156	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u157	If you scream, you don't listen to me! I said that the debate would not be reopened, that it was a justification for voting. I said it and Mr. Laaouej shouted it, but it's the same! Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: an explanation of vote can only be about the voting behaviour of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u158	Mr President, we are, of course, going to vote against rejecting this proposal. After all, we believe that Brussels is and will always be the capital of Flanders, even in the future. I expected more courage from the N-VA, especially after my request to do something together, to show courage for the division of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u159	Mr President, I do not wish to interrupt the joint group meeting between Flemish Interest and N-VA. Mr Francken is already gloating. It's an idea he clearly dreams of. Our group will vote with great conviction in favour of rejection. Mr Anseuw, I would like to thank you for your explanation of vote. After all, there are colleagues in this hemisphere who still believe that a project with N-VA is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA has taken the floor today to say that social security needs to be split up and that the demands of the Flemish Interest are still too soft. That gives the benefit of clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u160	Mr President, I just want to say that the PTB will vote in favour of rejection because we believe that social security remains a "national cathedral". As far as I am concerned, as Brusselsis, I will vote all the more in favour of this rejection because Brussels remains Belgium's capital with its national social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u161	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Is anyone else asking for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u162	Yes 92 No [[17]] No. Abstentions 23 Abstentions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 464/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 464/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u163	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs to Article 18. (791/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs on Article 18. (791/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 63 Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs to Rule 31. (791/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs on Article 31. (791/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u164	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs to Article 33. (791/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs on Article 33. (791/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u165	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 33 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 33 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs to Rule 47. (791/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Joris Vandenbroucke cs on article 47. (791/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u166	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 47 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 47 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u167	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[113]] Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 132 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (791/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (791/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u168	Mr Wouter Raskin voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u169	Mr. President, I was wrong. I voted no when I wanted to vote yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u170	That life is simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u171	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (766/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (766/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u172	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[18]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u173	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u174	What's going on? Aren't you focused?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u175	Mr. President, you're too focused on your notes. I've been giving you a sign for a long time, but you don't see me. I would like to correct my vote. I voted against and not in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u176	If there is a little silence and everyone is concentrating a little bit, we may be able to vote correctly. It's "yes," "no," or "abstention." It's not that hard. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u177	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u178	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 17. (793/5) Vote on amendment No 24 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u179	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u180	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Sander Loones cs on article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Sander Loones cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[19]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 131 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u181	Soon everyone will raise their finger again to say that they were mistaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u182	Mr President, would it be possible to repeat this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u183	The previous vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u184	The one on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u185	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u186	There was some confusion and some members did not vote properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u187	No, we're not. May I ask for the third time that we are equally focused? I think it is a terrible picture that the Chamber is unable to vote correctly on an amendment. I'm not gonna repeat the vote. We're moving on. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Sander Loones cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Sander Loones cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 23 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Sander Loones cs on article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Sander Loones cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 17. (793/5) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 17. (793/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[17]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 and the annexed tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 17 and the annexed tables were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u188	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 93 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 133 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (793/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (793/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-12-55-plenair-ip017x.u189	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, December 19, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 19 December 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
