ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u1	I welcome the Minister and her associates. We will begin this sitting with a topical debate on the RIZIV. Last week we heard Mrs Christiane Hubin from the RIZIV and Mr Jean Hermesse from the National Intermutualist College. We'll start with the questions immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u2	Madam Minister, I will integrate Mrs Depoorter's question, because it is an exchange of views. The proposal of the Insurance Committee excludes EUR 182 million from the budget. We were wondering whether this was the case in your proposal. If so, how will that be paid? If not, in what areas will this have an impact? We also wondered whether it was the first time that the proposal of the Insurance Committee was not accepted by the General Council. Couldn't the cabinet have known there were problems before? In that case, did the cabinet make an alternative proposal to the General Council? Will there be room in your proposal for new initiatives? The proposal of the Insurance Committee would provide for EUR 101 million. Is that still possible in your proposal? Have the care providers approved the proposal of the Insurance Committee? The dentists would have abstained. Was your proposal taken into account the concerns that exist in the area of oral care? We know that in our country only a limited part of the healthcare budget goes to oral care. This would be 3% compared to 5% to 10% in most other European countries. This budget is estimated at EUR 1.6 billion, while only EUR 1 billion is foreseen. This also means that EUR 600 million will have to be paid out of their own pocket for oral care, which, of course, also involves the problem that oral care will be difficult to afford and that there might even be selective access, with the risk that it will become increasingly difficult to reach an agreement with the dental services. It also mentions savings of EUR 65 million or more in the pharmaceutical sector. Can you confirm that? If savings are proposed for the pharmaceutical sector, were the concerns about the accessibility of innovative medicines taken into account? Can you confirm that this plan will also stimulate the prescription of biosimilary medicines? We were also wondering whether such a proposal, which will shortly be submitted to the Council of Ministers, could be made in a government in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u3	Mr Bertels, as usual, I have first given the floor to the N-VA, in the order we are used to. Mrs Gijbels, you asked a question from Mrs Depoorter. Normally, that's an individual question. I return to the order of questions as they were asked. Mr Bertels was the first to ask about the budget for medical care insurance. We plan about an hour before this exchange of views, then we continue with the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u4	Mr President, apart from everything else, you need to think again about what good habits are, to make sense. I combine my two questions, so there would certainly be no overlaps. First, something more general. Everyone knows that on 21 October the General Council of the RIZIV could not unanimously approve the budget proposal submitted by the Insurance Committee because the delegation of government abstained. It has blocked the RIZIV budget and it can lead to chaos, Madam Minister, even if you have denied it. This can lead to chaos in health insurance because patients and healthcare providers will no longer know what rates they can work with from 1 January. You have more or less admitted this, because you yourself say that thanks to your budget proposal, which you will hopefully explain, good tariff arrangements can be made, thus avoiding chaos. That is a circular argument about chaos that threatens or threatens. Secondly, and I am concerned about this point, on 13 November we heard in the Committee on Health, as it were, that the Minister would hold an inter-kabinets working group on that day, in order to present a proposal of his own budget for health care for 2020 at the Council of Ministers on Friday 22 November. We have heard this in the context of the discussion that was taking place there. Stakeholders would then be informed, which is still under discussion. Mr President, I have to say that I am surprised by the following. If one communicates to the health insurance stakeholders who have also been informed to Parliament, that is a few steps too far. Parliament has been told that there would be an inter-kabinets working group, but I know that Parliament has not yet seen a single piece on the content. Then the stakeholders write that MEPs were informed, goes a little too far in terms of choice of words. Madam Secretary, I come to my questions. After last week's inter-kabinets working group, the question is who you discussed your proposal with. Who was your proposal discussed with in last week's Interkabinets Working Group? Is there support for this by the health insurance operators, or is there only a potential proposal communicated? It appears that the relevant documents are not yet available, either for Parliament or for the actors. The next general question I have asked you before. Given the limited democratic support given by the outgoing government in this Parliament, you know as well as I do that only a quarter of MEPs still fully support the government, does the Council of Ministers and yourself not consider it advisable not only to inform Parliament, but also to know before you make such a heavy decision on more than EUR 27 billion? I come to the substantive comments. I assume you will explain the differences between the proposal you will submit to the Council of Ministers and the comprehensive proposal of the Insurance Committee? From the echoes we receive from the terrain, it seems that there are not insignificant differences. For example, all new initiatives in favour of patients have apparently lost obesity patients, psychiatry patients. Can you confirm that? Can you also explain why it is best to be technical in relation to the ESA neutrality, which you have now accepted for certain expenditures? First, you argued to the Insurance Committee that some of the expenses they include are not ESA neutral for you and now you have apparently made some elements relating to exogenous factors themselves ESA neutral. I'm getting a lot of worried reactions from the hospital community because you've just estimated an amount compared to what the Insurance Committee proposed. For example, you have reduced an amount relating to the commission for judicial measures. I would like to draw your attention to what we hear from the site, since we do not have the texts. Who will take that to heart in the future? Madam Secretary, I have one more general question. There was also a broad text, which we do have, from the stakeholders of the Insurance Committee, also on the transversal nature of the budget. There had to be more transversality, which differs from the partial budgetary targets. However, the law still needs to be amended for this purpose. Do you retain the overall text on the transversal nature and on the removal of multiple divisions between the partial budgetary objectives in the overall budget objective of the RIZIV? Those were my questions. Other remarks follow, I hope, in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u5	Mr Bertels, if I am correct, you have thus put both your questions together, which is very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, I have already asked you in plenary about this budget last week. I recalled your understanding of the consultation that I do not share. I also recalled the balanced proposal of the Insurance Committee and the almost unanimous nature of the proposal. I was finally telling you that it was time to look to the future and bring solutions. At the time, you challenged the proposed budget, arguing that it did not propose sufficient measures for patients. It appears that, given the extremely narrow margins available to the Committee, such measures were indeed planned, particularly in dental care, for chronic patients, for hearing aids and for the improvement of medical guards. You also wondered about the performance of the measures decided. The same performance issues will now arise in the context of the budget that you are going to present to us, especially since new estimates of expenditures have been taken into account in the design of the budget by yourself and the transmission of this information to the Insurance Committee would probably have allowed the budget to be considered from a completely different perspective. We are talking about a disagreement over 100 million euros. It is true that this may seem a lot, but it is a budget of more than 27 billion euros with a contribution in both cases of the pharmaceutical industry, with the granting of the indexation mass for the providers. Why not have opted for calming the situation by giving priority to consultation? You have confirmed – and this is very good – that we will implement the text voted in March, on the extension of the reimbursement of contraception. Minister, what are the next steps? For 2019, the budgetary target for proprietary medicinal products is exceeded by EUR 162 million. I will not go back to the blatant increase in budget overruns in recent years. A specific contribution from the pharmaceutical sector is foreseen. Have any agreements already been concluded? What about greater accountability in this pharmaceutical sector? Economies seem to focus mainly on old medicines and generic medicines, while the bulk of the excess comes mainly from innovative medicines. We have talked enough about this this morning, during the hearings on the difficulty of innovative medicines and their cost. Within the framework of the Insurance Committee's proposal, a unanimous call for the raising of the standard of legal growth and a stable multiannual budgetary framework was launched. It states that the savings achieved have had and continue to have indirect effects on the model agreement and convention, while at the same time leading to tariff security that appears to be weakened. The report notes the worrying increase in the number of unconventional dentists and physiotherapists and the consequences in terms of fee supplements charged to patients, as well as the sharp increase in fee supplements charged. It states that these savings also weigh on the care staff, who are at the service of the patient, and therefore on the quality of care. Minister, do you consider it necessary to review these parameters in the future? Difficulties can be expected with claimants. I am thinking, for example, of dentists and physiotherapists, where requests were met in the proposal, leaving the negotiations more likely to succeed in tariff matters in particular. Is it not likely, Madam Minister, that the number of deconventions will increase further? Finally, according to the Monitoring Committee's estimates, maintaining the 1.5% growth standard would mean additional savings of more than €2 billion by 2024. Could our health care system really resist? Jean Hermesse, whom we heard at the hearing last week, explained that 22 per cent of the total cost of health care was now borne by patients, nine tenths of a billion. He also said that a large part of the population had supplementary insurance and that, as a result, we were seeing a drop in the privatization of our health care. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u7	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, in a hearing on Tuesday, November 12, we learned in stoemelings, as Mr. Bertels said, that your firm would present your draft health care budget for 2020 on Friday. What fundamentally changes between your proposal and the Insurance Committee's proposal, which has been agreed with the players in the sector? What has justified, in practice, on your part, the rejection of their proposal? We have not had any further details of your budget proposal, but we have been able to read in the press that your budget proposal is in balance. That of the Insurance Committee too. You're offering savings on pharma. The budget proposed by the Insurance Committee also. You have therefore refused, without the possibility of negotiating, a budget which is the result of consultation and in which you are involved: your Chef de Cabinet is still present and the Committee meets twice a month. It is therefore a disagreement of 100 million out of 27 billion, or 0.37% of the budget. You have provided the Insurance Committee with new estimates of expenditures that allow this budget to be balanced. Why could this information not be made available earlier, since it was so essential? This would have allowed us to maintain a serene climate, a climate of confidence that this country so much needs. My question is very simple: why didn't you provide this information to the Insurance Committee before? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will not repeat the whole of my question, which broadly joins the questions of my colleagues. The first question we all want to ask the minister is the method. The INAMI Insurance Committee was unanimous and they were ready to discuss. Why didn't you continue the dialogue there, when today's government in day-to-day affairs has an increasingly narrow base and this could have contributed to the stability of our country? Secondly, can you explain, in substance, the differences between the two proposals which have remained very vague so far, since we have only a few answers, whether in the press, in plenary or through the various interlocutors who try to see it clearly. As far as the pharmaceutical sector is concerned, I have heard twice, in both proposals, of 161 million, but in the present proposal I have heard a figure of 120 million which would be retained as an economy. Can you explain the differences clearly or is it the same thing? At the level of the new initiatives, are the 101 million envisaged in the proposal which had been made concerning, inter alia, revalidation, logopedia, dental extractions etc. foreseen in your proposal? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, I had already questioned you last week. It is, of course, extremely important to have an agreement, and it also means that tomorrow there will be a negotiation of agreements and conventions, which is a major issue. So we need to be careful, in order to allow for better tariff security for patients. That was the positive side. On the other hand, I have already regretted last week that you decided to block the budget decided in the INAMI Insurance Committee: I am concerned about this and I wonder why. First of all, because you found it, by the magic of numbers...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u11	Yes, but the days have passed. Since then, Madam Minister, I still have information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u12	You do it for me. All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u13	No, I will address very specific issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u14	I propose that Mrs Fonck continue to ask her question. Mrs De Block, you can then say whether she gave the right answer or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u15	Mr President, that was not the question, that was the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u16	You'll say whether that's the right answer or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u17	Mr President, it is normal for us to update. Minister, this is not a reading exercise. These are debates. At some point, the political debate must be taken on board. Since then, water has sank under bridges and information has reached me. You clearly gave the Insurance Committee estimates of expenditures and revenues that were not correct, whereas they had asked you earlier to report problems. You said no, that it was correct, that it was macro envelopes, etc. The fact is that now that you've blocked the budget in the Insurance Committee, you've changed revenues and expenses. So you recovered an envelope of 250 million euros. Nothing but this is not serious. This clearly shows that you wanted to sabotage the work of health actors in the Insurance Committee. Madam Minister, I regret that. In my opinion, it's a posture you're interested in. If I'm a little tough today, it's that, in addition, you've accused the health workers in the Insurance Committee. You told them – you spread in the press – that you had blocked the budget because there were not enough advances for patients. That's shocking. Now, I have the numbers in front of me, with the ventilation, and I know what you're really going to do, compared to what they proposed. Frankly, nothing had been done against the patient. On the other hand, you are taking a step backwards (you should call a cat a cat) on the accessibility of dental care, on the reimbursement of hearing aids for children, on growth retardants, on the visually impaired, on the accessibility for patients with refractory epilepsy and for patients requiring kidney transplants, on reimbursements of in-house feeding, on the continuity of care for obese children and children with mental health problems, on additional reimbursements of speech therapy after multidisciplinary rehabilitation for chronic patients or on aspects of optimising treatment results with the pharmacist. I would add one more point: you have decided, where all the health actors had also advanced on an economy in the pharmaceutical sector... Moreover, should it be recalled that in recent years you have imposed savings and that all the health actors have been responsible and respected, except for the pharma sector? It was therefore all the other health actors that had to compensate the pharma sector. On this point, you are reducing the savings imposed on the pharmaceutical sector and changing the type of economy, since you are now dealing with non-patented medicines, contrary to the reality of price developments in the pharmaceutical sector and, above all, the evolution of the pharmaceutical budget in recent years. Madam Minister, I do not have a question because, since the tabling of my question, time has run out and I have in the meantime obtained the information. However, you would have done better to give the correct figures to the Insurance Committee, to work with it and to reach an agreement with it, rather than to do the cost of brilliance, which for me is a pure blow of media brilliance. In this way, you are undermining the trust and work of health actors. What is important in this area is that there is first and foremost an agreement, a balance found by the health actors, therefore through consultation. You have not only undermined consultation with health actors, but, in addition, the accusations you have made against them are heavy and particularly unfair in view of the final results of this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u18	Mr President, I would like to join the questions on behalf of the CD&V Group. Madam Minister, your proposal is in line with the proposal of the Insurance Committee of 7 October. I therefore wonder why you did not submit your proposal at an earlier meeting of the General Council on 21 October. You explained your proposal in separate groups, but not to all members of the Insurance Committee. Later that week we were informed that Members had not received the proposal on paper. Madam Minister, why is there no more transparency about this budget proposal? The budget proposal does not contain any resources for new initiatives or for better reimbursement of some healthcare providers. What are your views on the problem of the low degree of training of dentists and the high level of supplements? What suggestions or solutions do you make in this regard? Finally, how do you respond to the physiotherapists' questions for a better remuneration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the government has taken note of the opinion of the Insurance Committee to create a health care budget for 2020. The Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV has examined and analysed the opinion of the Insurance Committee on legal and budgetary compliance, which the Government has also taken to heart. The government decided that it should be improved both in terms of content, budget and legislation. Firstly, following the advice of the Insurance Committee would mean that the budget deficit would grow sharply. The government also had some legal concerns, also mentioned in the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV. We could not just accept that an invoice of more than EUR 300 million would simply be passed on to the public authorities and social security, without taking into account the fact that this amount is supposed to be financed. In other words, that amount was transferred to next year, to general funds or to global management, depending on who would find the money for it. For example, there was the non-maintainment of the structural blocking established by the General Council, while the Insurance Committee does not have the power to remove it. The proposal did not provide for the financing of the removal of structural blocking. Even if it could lift it, it would have to face up to funding at the time of its abolition, if not, it would be ESA neutral and would increase our debt. This was also about a few tens of millions. The Insurance Committee also proposed to increase the budgetary objective by spending on the fees for the professions, registered by certain hospitals and hospitals, without any funding. Moreover, there was also a double count by the Insurance Committee, which we assume was the race route, of 50 million euros at the hospitals. In fact, a structural technical correction to the commissions was not taken into account. By definition, therefore, there was another deficit of 50 million in that budget proposal. Secondly, the proposal was not very solid either. Several measures had not been developed. For example, they offer 57 million savings for hospitals, but the measures are not developed at all. Others were very optimistic about the entry into force: to achieve a proposed savings measure of 95 million on the pharmaceutical industry, legislative amendments are needed before 1 January 2020. These are the partial objectives that should be changed. That must be on 1 January, otherwise it cannot go on. There we also had EUR 95 million on a timetable that was pratiquement impossible. This timing was practically impossible. Instead of EUR 95 million, this measure is likely to bring nothing back – certainly in 2020 – while it represents more than two thirds of the total savings package. It goes without saying that this budgetary uncertainty also calls into question investment in new policies. How do we intend to fund this new policy if the measures that are supposed to generate money do not do so or do not do so sufficiently? In other words, we were talking about a virtual budget of EUR 101 million, with no funding or savings. So it was really a budget that probably couldn't be included. So I do not want to take the risk that by 2020 all the wells created and extended would be redirected by the new government and thus harm the patient. In any case, these wells should be paid for. What was included for the patient was indeed not enough for me. In the proposal, only EUR 19 million of the proposed virtual non-covered envelope of EUR 101 million came for new policies and investments for the benefit of the patient in the form of new or additional care, which is far too little. Let us look at the measures in this respect. Ms. Fonck, you were talking about improving dental care, especially about a higher honorarium for tooth extraction. The dentists and dental care are today rather focused on maintaining the teeth rather than getting more refund to make them pull. When we looked at the new policies and investments in our health care proposed by the Insurance Committee, we noticed that they would mainly go to structures and institutions. For example, the Insurance Committee had provided more than 33 million euros for the increase in certain fees, in addition to the indexation of 1.95%. Nearly €47 million is for structures, e.g. electronic records in hospitals, the reform of day hospitalisation, the global electronic medical file, the case management. A measure adopted in Parliament, on which Mrs Tillieux asked a question last week, concerns the extension of the reimbursement of contraception for young adults to the age of 25. This was nowhere to be seen in the proposal of the Insurance Committee. However, there was a large majority for this in the hemisphere. So there were still many questions, including the multiannual budget. The proposal states that an overrun of 1% of the partial objectives is possible and does not need to be compensated if compensation is to be made in the following year. However, exceeding the health budget by 1% in the partial targets means that a further EUR 275 million could be added, without any adjustment. How will this be financed and who will be responsible for this additional expenditure? This would mean that the deficit to be compensated will increase significantly in the following year. The proposal is actually too premature to apply at this stage and still needs to be worked out. The risk of an overrun without any compensation is far too great. On the basis of that analysis and the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, and in view of the budgetary and legal concerns, the proposal of the Insurance Committee left the delegation of government with no choice but to abstain. The law stipulates that if the General Council has not approved a budget on the third Monday of October, the Council of Ministers will be in the competence of the General Council and will establish the health care budget. On Wednesday 13 November, an Inter-Kabinette Working Group met on the proposal on the healthcare budget for 2020. In the meantime, there had indeed been consultations with the hospital domes, the insurance institutions and the medical syndicates. The theme was also explained at the meeting of the Insurance Committee last Monday. From there it was spread out. I cannot anticipate the decision of the Council of Ministers. But there are the following main lines: no increase in the financing system for global management or the federal government compared to the figures in the Monitoring Committee report. Moreover, these are the figures in our, although technical, budget submitted to the European Commission. The growth standard of 1.5 % is granted in full, without application of structural blockage. We will compensate for this structural blockage, instead of making the hole bigger. The index mass of 1.95 % shall be made available in full to all care providers and institutions. This means that 1.5 % of the legal growth standard and 1.95 % index mass together form the basis for the tariff agreements to be concluded in the various consultation bodies, including the medicomut, the dentomut and the kinemut. On the issue of savings in the pharmaceutical sector, I hear all kinds of sums circulating here. In reality, it is EUR 161 million. However, I would like to remind you once again that the pharmaceutical sector will have a further EUR 65 million to cover, which would otherwise have to be paid by the patient. There are no savings measures in this respect, because this is actually a loss for the sector. There are therefore savings measures of EUR 161 million and at the same time costs of EUR 65 million will be reduced for the patient. This is certainly a structural amount, but we have taken account of the fact that savings may not be possible until 1 April. So we have kept some margin, because some measures still have to follow the legal path. They will be settled from 1 April, while all this will be carried through in a structural manner from the year after. As I said, the patient's invoice will be reduced by EUR 65 million. Part of it refers to the extension of the refund of contraception for young adults. In addition, the pharmaceutical specialities sector finances €58 million. So that amount flows directly to the patient's wallet. In total, we have an amount of EUR 65 million. We ensure the financial resources for the implementation of the medical care budget. If we add up everything for industry for a full year, we will achieve a structural effort of EUR 220 million per year. This means that the present proposal provides for an additional €65 million for the patient and a structural saving of € 161 million on an annual basis for the medicinal products in the health insurance scheme. So that is a balanced budget, which will not increase our debt. As mentioned above, these measures were tested by the main stakeholders within the consultation model of health insurance. These guidelines were also presented to the Insurance Committee on 18 November. Now I come to a few specific questions. Mrs Gijbels, you are asking whether this EUR 182 million is outside the budget. The answer is no. It is about EUR 61 million in compensation for revenue and expenditure outside the budgetary objective, but not the EUR 121 million, because that amount is obtained by reducing expenditure, as it will not happen in 2020. That is a better and more correct budgetary technique. This was applied in this way in the last legislature, namely in 2016 and 2017, and already before. If we add the growth standard and the index together, we will indeed have to take a decision within the dentomut. As always, discussions within that consultative body should begin. Mr Bertels, I have explained the differences between our proposal and the proposal of the Insurance Committee. With regard to ESA neutrality, we have only followed the Monitoring Committee, in particular the EUR 61 million, which the Monitoring Committee says is about a shift of expenditure, which is an ESA neutral operation, which we could use for that reason. For the rest, the ESA neutrality is preserved. We have looked at the fees for judicial measures on a line-by-line basis. For all the court cases that could follow a ruling in 2020, commissions will be retained. We have not retained provisions for court cases that cannot reach a judgment by 2020, for example because those cases have only just been opened, as there is no expenditure on them in 2020. The fact that these commissions have been rather increased over time also plays a part in this. Adjusting the partial budgetary targets is a good idea, but it is not feasible before New Year. I have already indicated that there will be 95 million euro savings in this area in the pharmaceutical sector. If she is not there on 1 January 2020, she cannot continue. As you know, I have always been in favour of transversal action and long-term vision, such as removing silos. We have had enough debates with each other. It's gonna stay that way. Mr Bertels, what are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u20	Madam Secretary, we may agree on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u21	Mr Bertels, we absolutely agree on that. It is important to develop a long-term vision of the future of Belgian healthcare. To this end, strategic exercises have already been undertaken within the RIZIV and with the involvement of stakeholders in 2018 and 2019. A vision paper will also be issued in the short term and will be communicated to the management bodies of the RIZIV. On the basis of these analyses, the government considers it desirable to make concrete proposals with a longer-term approach, including a more transversal approach. That's what the text says. So much preparatory work has already been done in this area. However, we are not yet here. Mrs Tillieux, the responsibility of the pharmaceutical sector is greater than in the other proposal. Measurements were developed with the pharma.be and MedAccess cupola. These measures are concrete and well quantified, which was not the case for the other proposal. Regarding the amount of EUR 101, I call it a virtual budget because there is no financial cover. The representative of Ecolo asked why the technical estimates had arrived so late. It is necessary to follow the legal path: the technical estimates – second session – arrive the third week of September. This legal path has its reasons because in order to make the comparison, one must take the same technique at the same time. Mrs Merckx, the figures on pharmaceutical savings are now clear, I suspect. You said EUR 61 million, but that was corrected. Mrs Fonck, thank you for your questions and your answers in the debate. You may have your own reasoning, but don't make me say what you want. I'm too old to notice. Mrs Farih had a question about the supplements. A working group has been installed at the RIZIV, which, together with the stakeholders, has already done a lot of work to bring down the supplements. Thus, at the beginning of the legislature, we abolished them for day hospitalization, double rooms and, in certain cases, for single rooms. There is still work to be done, but it is not done in a budget; it is done in the contexts of it. The work on supplements certainly needs to be continued, because they raise the price of what the patient has to pay from his own resources. We will have to continue to fight this together. Once again, a solution to this cannot be included in a health budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u22	Madam Minister, thank you for your statement, but I do have some questions that I hope you can answer. You mention as one of the reasons for the refusal to approve the proposal of the Insurance Committee, the increase in the budget deficit, compared with the figures of the Monitoring Committee. Firstly, can you compare the budget proposal of the Insurance Committee, including the EUR 101 million in new initiatives, which is right for almost everyone, with the new figures you have used on the basis of your budget proposal? If I have understood you correctly, I have heard you say that there are new estimates of revenue. You have a new estimate of revenue in relation to Article 81, the current Article 111. You have a new estimate regarding the insurance tax. Wasn't that insurance tax in the Monitoring Committee's estimate? Secondly, what new technical estimates have you used? The procedure is that, following the initial technical estimates, new technical estimates will be made in the third week of September. You are now saying that new technical estimates would have been used to revise a number of expenditures. Thirdly, you also said that a number of expenditure was excluded from the budget. Would you mind specifying that? I am asking these questions, Madam Minister, because, according to my calculations, the proposal of the Insurance Committee does not seem feasible to me with all your figures. Perhaps you'll contradict that. In fact, you yourself have developed a method which is related to the dates of entry into force of the measures for the pharmaceutical sector. I'd like to take a look at that exercise. Secondly, do I understand that you are going to save EUR 220 million on medicines, since patients will have to spend less than EUR 65 million by rightfully abolishing the EUR 5 supplement for an original if there is a generic one? You count both amounts as an effort by the pharmaceutical sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u23	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u24	This is a new way of calculating the efforts of the pharmaceutical sector. I thought I misunderstood, but apparently I didn't. You add both amounts as structural savings in the pharmaceutical sector. That's a total novelty for me. Do I understand that you are actually transferring the efforts of the pharmaceutical sector to off-patent medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u25	Yeah, always.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u26	You can also ask for an effort from the innovative sector and not just from the manufacturers of off-patent medicines. That seems to me to be worth a discussion. Thirdly, with regard to the fees for the judicial measures on the hospital budget, have I understood correctly that you have been examining on a regular basis what rulings might be made by 2020? That means that you will actually wait for every individual ruling and that hospitals, even if there are generic statements, which apply to the whole of the sector, will still have to wait for a ruling in their own process. For me, this is not an example of process economy. In fact, you're going to have everyone sued individually and you're not taking decisions for the whole hospital sector into account. I understand your explanation in that way. I think that is absolutely impossible for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u27	Mr Bertels, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u28	Then you'll have to explain that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u29	Mr Bertels, on the whole, there has been a line-by-line review of whether a ruling can be expected in 2020 or whether there is no way to reach a decision by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u30	Madam Secretary, a ruling for an individual hospital can apply to all hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u31	All cases have been read line by line.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u32	Madam Secretary, most of this is a matter of individual lawsuits. But if there is an individual legal ruling that is wider than just one hospital, will you apply it to the other hospitals, or will you also force the other hospitals to sue? It's a purely informative question. However, you must check what you have said on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u33	It doesn't work that way. I didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u34	Madam Minister, I have two comments to make just for the sake of clarity. First of all, your proposal must go to the Council of Ministers. But I understand that a party colleague of a member of the resigning government is proposing a number of improvements, including on kine and dentists. Does this mean that there is still discussion in the government about the proposal, which you have explained to some actors? Finally, I would like to make a general comment. Madam Minister, you indicated that the proposal would allow for the agreement of convention rates in the various convention committees. You also refer to the general risk of deconvention. We must be absolutely attentive to this. Some of the necessary measures in the proposal of the Insurance Committee were intended precisely to avoid further deconvention, which we do not want and which, I assume, you do not want. In this context, it is interesting that you and the government once again value the consultation model that our health insurance has been expanding for many years, and is still growing. Madam Secretary, those were my questions, to which you have not given me all the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u35	Madam Minister, I heard you. You tell us that the accountability of the pharmaceutical sector is more important in your proposal. When you look at the figures, you're talking about 161 million euros a year. However, the Insurance Committee's proposal referred to EUR 195 million a year. So I just see the opposite. Could you explain to us what's going on? Nor have I heard an answer to the question on the extension of the reimbursement of contraception. The INAMI from which we requested an evaluation of the measure referred to EUR 6.9 million. Is that the amount that is included in your budget? On the question of the risk of deconcentration, I also did not hear your answer. Finally, it is true that I am extending the debate to the question put to us by Jean Hermesse de la Mutalité chrétien on a competition of circumstances which means that today the citizens have additional assurance and that, finally, this could be translated as a step-by-step step towards the privatisation of health care. I know that we are getting a little out of the budget, but nevertheless, I would like to hear your reaction on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u36	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers or rather for your non-responses. I am new to the debate. You have given a listing of very technical budget reasons without an encrypted basis. I am therefore unable to see what is correct or, at least, to compare. But my question was mainly about the method. You're telling me that these numbers are in the third week of September. I therefore do not understand why this data has not been provided to the Insurance Committee in a timely manner, if it is so essential in the construction of the budget. If they still arrive in the third week of September and are not communicable in time and time to the Insurance Committee, then every year there will be a problem. I really don't understand the method. Why were these data not provided on time? Thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u37	Minister, thank you for your response. As I understand it, at the level of the pharmaceutical sector, there is still a difference between the proposal made by the Insurance Committee and the one under discussion. I also note, and above all, that you reject some interesting leads, particularly for technical reasons. But how can we save on drugs by saving on drug classes? This is about the 95 million. There were interesting avenues to better control the budget. And you didn't say anything about the idea that more biosimilar drugs should be prescribed. I'm not reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u38	Madam Minister, I had indeed asked whether the prescription of biosimilar medicines would be encouraged, but I have not heard an answer to that. Maybe I didn't listen properly. However, I have a more pressing question. You just told Mr Bertels that the amount of EUR 161 million would be saved on off-patent medicines. I would like to hear confirmation of that, because we heard the National Intermutualist College in committee last week. It was very clear from that meeting that the overrun of the budgets in the pharmaceutical sector was caused by the innovative medicines in the hospitals. There was an overrun of more than EUR 200 million, if I recall correctly. I therefore believe that the structural problem is more there and that is what we must work on. However, we will continue to work on the off-patent medicines, but we will not do structural interventions in this way. We need to find a sustainable framework for keeping medicines affordable, not cheese-shaving methods that we have been using for years, because they do not appear to be working. I would therefore like a clarification on the EUR 161 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u39	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I started earlier by telling you that one of the main points was to move forward to validate agreements and agreements, thereby ensuring the patient's tariff security. I'll take the example of dentists since you've talked about it. Only 60% of dentists are contracted, on average, throughout the kingdom. It's a little more in some provinces, and it's necessarily much less in others. Other examples could be taken, but dental care is unique. Force to reach a medico-mutualistic agreement, with the highest possible rate of agreement, since the rate of 60% is not acceptable, is a major issue first and foremost for the patient and for tariff security. You're moving forward in the area of contraception. We don't have any details yet. I hope that all types of contraceptives will be involved. Unfortunately, you do so at the expense of other measures, which you have removed. I made a list of them earlier. It had the dental part. You're not saying anything about the children's hearing aids, or the list I mentioned earlier. You could've done both of them. I do not know what the future will be about, but what is certain is that the technique of changing the framework, revenue, expenditure and figures after the fact that you know them - the opposite is not imaginable - raises a very important question. You could have provided the correct figures to the Insurance Committee and the General Council. I hope this is the first and last time. The most important thing now is to plan for the future. I hope that this is not the choice to undermine the whole procedure, not the bilateral consultation and information of each other in their own corner, as you have done, but rather the consultation, and above all the co-construction of the budget by the health actors. I really hope that this way of doing things, applied this year, will not become an extremely bad habit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u40	Mr Bertels, we have taken the same figures as the report in the Monitoring Committee and the technical estimates of September. This makes a difference when it comes to Article 111, because the monitoring committee's report used June's estimates, not September's. This led to a difference of 63 million euros. We took those from September because they are more accurate. There is therefore a difference in time, but for the rest we have taken the same figures as the Insurance Committee and the Monitoring Committee. As far as the pharmaceutical sector is concerned, we are keeping the savings in this sector separate, with concrete measures being taken. The 5 euro that the patient does not have to pay anymore also means less income for the sector. We are keeping that aside, because there are no measures to this end, while others are being compensated by measures. Nevertheless, the patient should not cough it up anymore, which means that the sector has less income. The savings are all on off-patent medicines, which means it's always about a distribution. For each measure, we know what is covered by innovative means and what is covered by generic means. In the past we have always tried to have an 80/20 ratio: 80% innovative and 20% generic. That is calculated in all transparency, with everyone around the table. If pharmaceutical.be, Medaxes and we come to the same numbers, then we assume that they are correct. So that's where the key comes in. As far as hospital fees are concerned, you ask what happens when a decision is taken on an individual measure. When something is destroyed, an article, for example, an adjustment happens. The Council of State rejects or destroys something. If that is an individual ruling, then there is case law and that is the case for the whole sector. You say the others will have to wait. That's not true. That has been calculated and therefore the need to go through with it. The next question is from Mrs Tillieux. Mrs Tillieux, you are talking about 195.7 million measures for the pharmaceutical sector on an annual basis in the Insurance Committee's proposal. In our calculation method, we do not take measures for contraception into account. We see EUR 161 plus EUR 58 million for the pharmaceutical sector, which means that we get EUR 219 million on an annual basis. So there's a difference of over 20 million. With regard to Mr Hermesse's statements, and the fact that he is concerned about additional private insurance being taken out, that is indeed a phenomenon that is becoming more and more common among us and which forces people to be paid against some out-of-pocket. I follow Mr Hermesse, who says that health insurance itself must ensure that the share of out-of-pocket remains affordable for the people and that it should not really affect only the people who have supplementary insurance. We've been working on that. If you look at our patients' out-of-pocket payments, and last week there was a new Health at a Glance, you will see that it has fallen to 14.9 % in recent years. There is a great deal of attention to this. The technical estimates take place in June. We are already beginning to work on these figures, but the law provides that the second technical estimate will take place in September. When the September figures are available, we take the changes into account to recalculate. I told you, it's the law and it's important that it be respected. Otherwise, we would make comparisons with other dates. September can't happen faster in the year!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u41	That's not what I'm saying. They're coming in the third week of September. Starting in September, this is being discussed with the Insurance Committee for a concerted budget. If, systematically, these figures arrive after the concertation, then stop the concertation! It is not the date, it is the method that is problematic. You do not respect the consultation by arriving with figures after the consultation. It's a matter of agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u42	The consultation already begins in June, when the first figures are available. There was only 28 million euros of difference between June and September. Sometimes they're good numbers, sometimes they're not. The numbers are then adjusted. Otherwise, the second technical estimate should not be made unless it is taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u43	I did not say that we should not make other technical estimates. But if that's essential and that's one of the reasons you rejected the budget – that's what you said – then it has to be integrated at the time of the consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u44	As I told Mr Bertels, we have taken the same basis of numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u45	So I do not understand the role of your Chief of Staff in the consultation, if all this is not concerted. You are now acting as if this budget were coming as a fait accompli, in which you have never been able to take part.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u47	But that's not true, since your chief of staff...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u48	Yes, I do. This was presented to the Insurance Committee without us being involved in the 23 sessions they held. That is also the law. The Insurance Committee shall make a proposal which may or may not subsequently be accepted by the General Council. That proposal must be legally and budgetaryly sound. The proposal must not add to the burden of public debt. It must not go over to global management and that was all the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u49	Your firm is still part of the Insurance Committee. It can therefore communicate information, discuss and consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u50	That was the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u51	You just told me you didn't do it at all. I don't understand!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u52	There has been no prior consultation with the cabinet on whether these are the correct figures and whether the measures are feasible. They have done so, but that is their right: they can make a proposal. If that was a good thing, that should be said. By the way, the things that were in it that were good were also taken with us, but the budget must be tight and the public debt must not be increased. That was not the case; it was simply not sufficiently substantiated, either on feasibility, on legality, or on non-obtrusive government debt. The Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV, which has proved its worth, felt the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u53	There's still a method problem. It will have to be reviewed in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u54	Mrs Merckx, the therapeutic classes are interesting, but to take these measures we need to change the partial budgets. INAMI did the calculations. They have looked at what this could generate in terms of savings. There will be no revenue in 2020, as the sub-budgets will have to be changed by 1 January in order to take this into account. It is not possible to get this done by then, but this discussion will certainly come back because these partial objectives have grown historically. However, the question is whether we should stick to this. I believe that the debate should be held on this subject, but this cannot be done at one and a half months before the deadline. After all, this is a discussion that will not take place without a hitch because all stakeholders are involved. The necessary attention has also been paid to the biosimilars. We have found that the uptake of these biosimilars in our country is rather low. In addition, there are differences between regions and between hospitals. This is a chapter in which we, together with all stakeholders, bring together a number of things. We have already taken measures to bring about some take-up in our country, but we need to get it started. This is important because for nine oncological medicines biosimilars are in the pipeline. This is about large volumes and if we miss the boat in that respect, it does not look good for our patients who need those innovative products. This has therefore also been given due consideration and measures have already been taken. Mrs Depoorter, you say that the budget for medicines in hospitals was exceeded by EUR 200 million. There is no specific budget for medicines in hospitals. It is a global budget for the officialna and the hospitals. The increase due to the higher consumption of medication and the higher prices occurs mainly in day hospitalization. There is also innovation just there. The immunological therapies are almost all given in daily hospitalization. Oncology treatments are also given in daily hospitalization. We see an increase there, not in officials or in hospitals. It is true that it represents a new challenge for the future to continue to pay for innovation. The starting position through the Future Pact, launched in 2015, was the so-called patent cliff for medicines or patents, which should lead to a large decrease in the account. In a similar sense, we also made the volume cliff. Everything was aimed at lowering the patient's bill. The Future Pact also means that the government invests that money for patients in innovation. The calculations in this respect were carried out until the end of the Future Pact. At the time of those calculations, a train was expected to be innovative, but it turned out to be a high-speed train. For example, the immunological medicinal products were initially used for only a few indications, but their volume has been greatly increased as immunotherapy has been shown to work for an increasing number of indications. In addition, we have generally received a lot more medicines. For example, of CAR-T medicines, which were not predicted to be on the market at the outset, there are now several species. This issue does not arise only in our country, but all countries are faced with the question of how they can respond adequately to innovation. The point is that innovation must be able to be brought to our patients. I refer to the symposium in the Chamber on innovative medicines. Figures from Professor Lieven Annemans on the treatment of melanomas indicated how many people were saved, how many people have a future again. That's what we're here for. I do agree that it should remain affordable. That is why I call for our patients to have access to innovative medication, if available, in their own country. In this respect, we have already taken several measures, but more will be needed in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u55	Madam Secretary, that is just what I was talking about. Of course, we must ensure that patients have access to innovative medicines. It is a pity, however, that you are taking back old measures in your proposal. We have seen this morning that the total use of current medicines is decreasing and therefore the total expenditure on them is falling, while spending in the innovative sector is rising explosively. We must find an answer to this trend. That is what I was talking about. Up to that point, we agree. Now we will have to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u56	Mrs Depoorter, you are absolutely right. The WHO and Europe are working on it. That is why we have launched cooperation initiatives in Europe. When we look at other countries, we find that each country is looking for them. After all, the problem is an immense challenge everywhere. The strange thing is that everyone thinks that we have found the solution, which is certainly not yet the case. So we will certainly have to work further on the dossier. However, we are being looked at because we are the only country that has made a future pact in this area. Anyway, all countries are struggling with that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u57	Minister, I still have a very specific question. How much have you planned on the budget for free pill up to 25 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u58	This is the amount calculated by INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u59	6.9 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u60	As Mrs. Fonck said, it covers the pill and the next day's pill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u61	Madam Minister, you have not answered the question of expenditure which you have excluded from the budgetary objective. You mentioned it in the explanatory statement, but you did not mention it anymore. There is also a tax on insurance expenditure. You refer to the Monitoring Committee. The taxes on insurance services relate to RIZIV's own income, and I would be surprised if the Monitoring Committee had already estimated them; yet you now subscribe tens of millions. I would like a technical clarification, because I fear that that is not true.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u62	Madam Minister, does your proposal have an impact on the needs sheets submitted by the various sectors and on the priorities they have given to them? If they're completely out, I'd like to hear it from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u63	Mr Bertels, the Monitoring Committee used the June figures and we used the September figures. There's a difference. As far as expenditure outside the budgetary objective is concerned, there is a difference of 47 million for hospitals. This has to do with the reduction of fees for hospital court cases. It has a reason why part of it falls inside and part of it falls outside the objective. My associate will explain it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u64	Indeed, it is true that the BFM, i.e. the hospital budget, is partially wound up within the budgetary objective and partly out of it. I use rounded percentages: 75% is wound up within the budgetary objective, within the partial objectives; 25%, or 22,77 %, with a correction, outside the budgetary objective. As a result, a number of expenditures, except B7 and B8, are spent within the hospital budget according to that key. In other words, 75% of the commissions are within the budgetary objective and 25% outside the budgetary objective. That's a legal division, and that's what the C.B. is all about. As a result, if fees are reduced within the budgetary objective, they can also be reduced outside the budgetary objective. The reduction or liquidation of the structural blockage was largely eliminated in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u65	Mr President, I have not yet received an answer. Have the need sheets, the new initiatives, submitted by the various sectors all been wound up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u66	It's about EUR 1.5 billion. That's not all filled out. It's gonna be Santa Claus soon. When they tell children to tick whatever they want, they tick everything on every page. I did that once. We don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u67	Then there won't be any new initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u68	Yes, it is, but that is discussed in the conciliation committees. The committees will examine the full indexing and the growth standard and incorporate the new initiatives there. That's what they've been asked to do. That's 1.95 plus 1.50. They can work on that, but it's up to them to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u69	Minister, comparing health actors to children who want everything and anything in front of a Saint-Nicolas catalogue is offensive to the sector! Mr. President, that will be my last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u70	I think the last word has certainly not yet been said in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u71	Madam Minister, this question concerns the post-mortem examination to be carried out by a doctor before a body is cremated. The local authorities call on an sworn physician to carry out an additional check on the cause of death prior to the cremation of a deceased person. The aim is to verify whether the person in question has actually died of natural causes. The presence of defibrillators in the body, for example, should also be investigated. They need to be removed because they can explode during the cremation process, with all the consequences of that. Now it appears that in some cases the sworn physician does not carry out the check, but simply signs the paperwork. This sometimes causes bodies to be cremated with a defibrillator, which then explodes. Writing the crematoria to doctors asking them to take these kinds of controls seriously confirms that it is a common practice. The sworn doctor gets an amount per determination ranging from 30 to 100 euros. At an amount of 75 euros, as in our municipality, the total amount of 109,000 cremations that was the figure for 2017 would amount to 8 million euros, for an act that is not carried out in many cases. Madam Minister, how does the Public Health Office control the activities of sworn doctors in the context of the conscientious conduct of such investigations prior to the cremation? Does the federal government or any other superlocal government intervene in any way in the payout of those doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u72	Mrs Gijbels, the coronership rules have long been part of the powers of the federated entities. In view of the definition of medicine in the coordinated law on the exercise of health care professions of 10 May 2015, the determination of a death is an effective medical act. So it's done by a doctor. Further checks, prior to cremation or burial, relating to the safety of the funeral procedure applied may indeed be carried out by sworn doctors, but this is also within the competence of the federated entities. This is mainly about research into the presence of implants such as pacemakers, which in the case of cremation may pose a danger, but also about research into other risks, such as the presence of therapeutic radionuclides. The National Council of the Order of Doctors has also considered the responsibility of doctors for removing implants such as pacemakers. In its opinion of 24 January 2009, the council states that doctors are not legally obliged to remove a pacemaker from a deceased person. The law stipulates that pacemakers should be removed for cremation, but does not tell who to do so. In its opinion of 12 May 2007 on the removal of post mortem batteries from implants, the National Council considers that a battery should be removed by a doctor who is competent to do so. If the treating doctor or the doctor who determines the death does not consider that he has that competence, that task must be assigned to another competent doctor. This may be done, where appropriate, by the sworn doctor appointed by the civil status official. A doctor who removed the batteries can certify that with a certificate. Finally, in its opinion of 12 May 2007, the National Council did not have the power to develop a procedure for removing a battery from an implant after death. They assume that this is not a deontological but a purely organisational matter. In view of the above, there are no checks by the Public Health Office on the body delivery. The federal entity intervenes only in the context of sanitary disasters and crises as far as funeral services are concerned. This is because it is a question of the possible infectiousness of the corpses. You will have to pass on your questions on to your colleagues in the Flemish and Walloon Parliament on the funding of the sworn doctors and on the regulatory and operational aspects of funeral care, since these are the powers of the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u73	Madam Minister, I believe that there is a deontological problem, since apparently documents are signed frequently without the body in question being investigated. I do not know to what extent this can be followed up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u74	We simply do not have the authority to do so. You can report that to the Order or in the Flemish Parliament, but we are not responsible for that. We are only authorized when it comes to people who have died of an infectious disease. Otherwise, we cannot intervene in terms of either deontology or control.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u75	This question deals with mobile applications within healthcare. According to the website mhealthbelgium.be, the federal platform for mobile health, there are already several apps with a CE label that recognise those apps as a medical device. In many cases, the app can only be obtained by prescription. Some apps are intended to be used by doctors, but most are integrated into a treatment or prevention framework. One of those medical apps is FibriCheck. The app can detect various types of cardiac arrhythmias. In this way, in accordance with the 2019 Action Plan, such an app can form a simple, accessible and valuable link in a larger prevention or treatment plan. A while ago, however, the FibriCheck app was offered by some newspapers, without any prescription. Based on measurements made with the app in readers, the newspapers were able to extract figures of heart rhythm disorders. Moreover, the press release did not clarify how a medical follow-up was associated with begging the app and processing the results. At the same time it appeared that only 37% of people with heart rhythm disorders had actually consulted a doctor. The database of companies that develop such medical apps is potentially very large. Sometimes pharmaceutical companies also market those apps themselves. Do you think that medical apps that fit in a general medical framework are the best prescription? If so, how is it possible that the FibriCheck app was made available to the readers of Het Nieuwsblad and Het Belang van Limburg for a certain period of time without a prescription? Do you consider that commercial actions for prescription medical apps should be possible? How does the FPS monitor whether companies that develop medical apps correctly deal with the personal data they collect through the apps and, for example, do not offer personalised advertising? In what way does the FPS Public Health monitor whether companies that develop medical apps pass on the collected data to pharmaceutical companies? Even if the data is anonymized, big data can provide interesting information for pharmaceutical companies. Do you think there's a role for the pharmacist to explain when using those medical apps?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u76	Thank you for your question about FibriCheck and by extension also about mHealth, Mrs Gijbels. Certain medical apps fit perfectly into a general medical framework, but they should not necessarily be prescribed. We cannot restrict the freedom of enterprise. There are also apps that encourage people to move more. Those apps are useful, but of course they won't be refunded. They're not considered a medical app either. Only when a medical app is tilted in our compulsory medical care insurance will it have to be done by prescription. To streamline all this, a validation pyramid was developed to guide the patient and the doctor in the landscape of the medical apps. Funding by medical care insurance means that the app was positioned at the so-called M3 level. The M1 level at which all mHealth apps are located now monitors the safety of the application and checks whether an app has a CE marking. However, with the action in Het Belang van Limburg and Het Nieuwsblad, citizens should still purchase the app themselves. FibriCheck only provides a measurement and registration. There are no strict medical actions involved. There are therefore no immediate problems for citizens in this respect. If certain mHealth applications can make a positive contribution to the entire mHealth ecosystem, this may be communicated. The aim of the mHealth validation method is just to give care providers a handle so that they know which applications have been validated by the government, so that we will find fewer and fewer pseudohealth apps. Something has a medical added value or not. Sometimes it's nice to have, but I can't track the number of apps anymore. On the website mHealth Belgium an explanation is given about the policy of mHealth in general and about the different levels in detail. You ask for specific monitoring of the handling of data. This is done within the framework of a validation pyramid at level M1. Hence the framework mHealth Belgium that we have created. We want to get the credible companies within that framework, so that the prescribing and consulting care providers will prescribe or advise such apps to their patients. The data resulting from this must comply with the strict GDPR privacy rules. Safety must comply with the CE marking rules. These two aspects are also included in the M1 level. Of course, it remains difficult to control all software processes. A GDPR statement is therefore always recorded by means of a so-called self-declaration. However, should there be an infringement that is notified to the Belgian Data Protection Authority, the European GDPR rules on fines apply. These fines are high. This also applies to all types of applications in all sectors. As for your question about the role of the pharmacist, in some applications that would be possible, in others not at all. It is intended that healthcare providers may prescribe or advise apps that they are aware of. With the validation pyramid we want to offer a handle to the healthcare provider to bring those valuable apps to the attention of the patient. What is being repaid is another question. For this reason, there is also a requirement for any reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u78	Mr Rigot, I see that you have taken up Mr. Ben Achour. As for Mrs Jadin, she is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u79	Mr President, this question was tabled by my colleague Malik Ben Achour. She is particularly close to her heart, since she concerns her borough. Given Malik's urgency and unavailability today, it was decided that I would take it back on my own, in the interest of all the general practitioners in the Verviers district. Minister, medical guards operating in this district are becoming more and more difficult to organize. Of course, on weekends and public holidays, they are centralized at the departure of several posts spread over the borough territory, via a unique number that makes it possible to filter calls. This system is recognised and funded by INAMI. However, on weekdays the borough does not benefit. The doctors then organize themselves on a communal basis, resulting in a lack of custody in some municipalities and a significant workload in others. 13 day-care areas are recorded for week-nights throughout the country, with very different organizational arrangements. Thus, some small municipalities such as Lierneux can only rely on two doctors, who may find themselves having to take over more than 100 guards per year. For other municipalities - such as Verviers, Dison or Pepinster - it is an individual or group system of patient care. Only the patients of the doctors concerned are taken care of, the others must turn to the emergency services. Since it is a tourist area, tourists must turn to these services. The result is probably unjustified congestion. To remedy these shortcomings, it could be envisaged to extend the effective system from weekend to week. However, INAMI refuses such a possibility and does not want to bear the additional costs associated with this extension. In the Verviers district, it is estimated at EUR 300 000. Minister, why does INAMI refuse this extension? How can the situation be improved, while the Verviers district has 55% of general practitioners over the age of 55? How do you explain that it is the municipalities that have to take over these important budgets? Do other boroughs have the same situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u80	Mr Rigot, under the previous legislature, one of my priorities was to reorganize unplanned care. A new policy on day-care positions in general medicine was part of this policy. Indeed, in my view, these positions can contribute to the improvement of the working conditions of general practitioners. I did it in my commune thirty years ago. Now it's here. The objective of this new policy is to develop a uniform system of general medical care positions by standardizing both the organizational model and the funding of on-call positions. The legal basis for the reform has been laid down in the Law on Quality of Practice of Care, in which the permanence of care providers is explained. The patient must have access, at any time, to a general practitioner for unplanned care. A specific provision has been made for this occupational group. It provides that the general practitioner shall be required to participate in the medical service which is organised by the functional cooperation of the general practitioners, which shall lay down arrangements for medical permanence in the area concerned. An inter-administrative unit bringing together the staff of the Public Health FPS and INAMI has been set up to develop the organizational and funding model. Within the "guard" accompaniment platform, ideas are discussed with the stakeholders who are also represented. The on-call coordinators and project coordinators 1733 for Wallonia and Flanders are working closely with the field to best support those involved in these developments. With regard to funding, the initial focus was on the reform of the childcare system on weekends. Once the concept of this reform is sufficiently developed, with the guarantee of optimal use of resources and a coherent and uniform organisational model, the concept can be extended to night-to-week guards. The problem of the guards of general medicine on weekdays is a concern which is reported in various places in the Walloon Region and sometimes also in Flanders. I would like to reassure you: the organisation in a uniform and satisfactory way in the evening and at night on weekdays for the population as well as for general practitioners, is taken into account in the work. The Inter-Administrative Unit is preparing a new funding model for the general medical care system, which will be introduced from 2020 onwards. First of all, we tried to have enough visibility for duty stations so that patients would know that it is possible to consult a general practitioner on the weekend, Friday evening at 8:00 p.m. to Monday morning at 8:00 a.m. We did standardize this because, in some guard stations, the permanence was not always clear. This has taken place throughout the country and is in the interest of regions with few generalists. It is reported that for young general practitioners, the attractiveness of a municipality is improved. I didn't know that in Verviers there was also a problem, but it is true that the number of doctors is sometimes too low. In my commune, this was a bit the case, but we are now working, with eight communes, through a guard post. I know that distances are sometimes different in some areas and that this is not possible everywhere. However, we are moving forward and the inter-administrative unit is about to succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u81	Minister, thank you for all the general practitioners. I am very pleased with the response you are giving us today and with the deadline for the future implementation of an extended guard. I can only confirm the sense of the ground on the effectiveness of 1733 for patients and for doctors. It allows for a better orientation of situations that require a real move to the emergency services of Verviers, Malmédy, Eupen or Saint-Vith and, on the contrary, to de-bureaucrat them when this is not justified. Thank you for taking Verviers' problem into account in terms of the shortage of doctors, but also of the reality of the field in terms of languages. It is indeed a commune where French and German are spoken. It is also complex for this area, which includes doctors almost 60 years of age and whose 14 communes in the Francophone part of the borough out of 20 are in a shortage of doctors, 5 of whom are in serious shortage. I thank you already for the follow-up you will bring and for your commitment in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u82	Questions Nos 55000619 and 55000638 by Mr Creyelman are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u83	Madam Secretary, I would like to raise three issues. The first is about psychological care in general. Recent research by the KU Leuven and the CM shows that 14 percent of our teenagers have psychotic complaints reported. One in four adults face psychological problems sooner or later. In many cases they have already arisen in adolescence. Talking about mental problems, depression and so on, despite initiatives like red noses, remains taboo. These are alarming figures where doing nothing is not an option. In our hectic society, the pressure on young people is very high, with psychological problems as one of the consequences. Madam Secretary, will you do anything to address this problem? What initiatives are being taken on prevention? Experience experts in psychological care consider that their sector is often treated stepmotherly. What do you think of that? How much of the health budget goes to psychological care? What is the relationship with other sectors within the department? The second theme is about not using the budget for cheap psychology. Since April, adult Belgians who have moderate to severe depression, anxiety disorder or alcohol problem can go to a conflicted psychologist at reduced rates. They pay up to 11 euros per session, instead of 50 euros or more, provided a prescription from a general practitioner or psychiatrist. The federal government paid 22 million euros for this for 2019, but a large part of that money remains and is not used. How come this is used so little? Where do you think it's limping? What steps will you take to clarify this? Was this measure sufficiently communicated to the sector? Will the evaluation of the system be carried out in consultation with industry experience experts? The third issue concerns the reimbursement of psychological aid. The OECD estimates that the social costs for mental health problems in our country are over 20 billion, representing more than 5% of GDP. By comparison, that's almost half of what we spend on pensions every year. In 2017, the latest year for which data are available, according to studies, more than 10,000 Flemings tried to get out of life, 28 per day. Only in four other OECD countries is the number of effective suicides comparatively higher than in our country. Getting the right specialized mental assistance in our country is apparently still a matter of paying a lot. The reimbursement is considered to be totally inadequate by specialists in this area. The amount refunded is far too low compared to the usual price of a session with a psychologist. The maximum of eight paid-back sessions is not enough to make a difference to who really needs it. That's why I have the following questions. First of all, is it true that psychological care is currently financed only within the framework of the funding of the outpatient and residential care? Secondly, why is there a distinction according to statute and setting for reimbursement? Are you aware that such a distinction can encourage class medicine? Thirdly, why was a maximum of eight paid-back sessions set, while some patients often need longer therapy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u84	Mr President, Minister, on 27 August 2019 De Standaard published an article entitled "Budget for cheap psychologist barely used." Since April 2019, the partial reimbursement of psychological assistance has been in operation. The federal government paid 22 million euros for this. The Standard states that a large part of that money has remained. In June and July 2019 three quarters of the budget were not addressed. In the months before, that was even more. Psychologists, patient associations and experts have been criticizing your partial reimbursement project for a long time. Most psychologists therefore did not subscribe to the project on the basis of substantive criticism. The compulsory referral of a general practitioner or psychiatrist, the limited number of diseases eligible for reimbursement and the amount of the amount of the benefit remaining at the patient's expense are only some of the obstacles mentioned. These obstacles are not insignificant. On the website of the RIZIV one does not find out which psychologist one can contact. General practitioners who have to refer are also poorly informed. My questions are as follows. Do you know how many psychologists are enrolled in the project? What is your analysis of the evolution of the situation in 2019, possibly even the months after June and July? Today we are already in mid-November 2019. So I'd like to have your analysis of the months after that. How many consultations have been reimbursed in total? How do you evaluate the project yourself so far? Psychologists, patient associations and experts have been critical of the project you have launched for a long time. Did you get that criticism? Are you prepared to revise the project? A study by the Socialist Mutualities calculated that between 324 and 473 million euros would be needed to achieve a qualitative supply of first-line psychology. You provided EUR 22.5 million. Do you also think that this amount is too little? Are you willing to work out another slope?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u85	Mr President, Minister, a while ago a lot of articles were published about young people who have had psychological problems in recent years. In 2016, the Federal Health Knowledge Centre recognised that the current offer of psychological care does not meet the needs. Nor does the plan you have drawn up for the reimbursement of first-line psychologists achieve the desired result. A group outside the reimbursement system includes young people. However, many young people also have psychological problems. Knowing that a visit to an expert doctor costs between 50 and 70 euros, I should not draw a picture that many families cannot afford this. That way, their children cannot be accompanied. However, Belgium is at the top when it comes to taking antidepressants. I have already put a written question to which I have not yet received an answer. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions, Madam Secretary. What measures do you take against the use of antidepressants? Do you have any figures on the use of antidepressants in young people? Is there a drop to be seen? Do you have an overview of the budgets released by the reduced use? Will you use the funds released as a priority to broaden the reimbursement system for psychological care?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the research figures on mental problems in adolescents are in line with previous data that led to the Guide to better mental health care in 2015 and to the realisation of healthcare circuits and healthcare networks. This guide is the basis for a new policy and is a joint initiative of all ministers at that time nine ministers responsible for public health. To sum up very briefly, I shall be dishonoring the great work that has been done on the subject. We have set up networks that each cover an area of activity and which contain all the essential health components in a complementary and coordinated way. For children and young people, our country has eleven such networks. The implementation of the guide is a responsibility of all levels of government in our country. In this respect, I myself provided financial support for the outpatient and residential psychiatry of children and adolescents for some 350 full-time equivalents, amounting to some EUR 29 million. For investments in the other levels, which of course were of a different order of magnitude, please contact the Regions and the Communities. Now I come to the questions about the reimbursement of psychological care. The government agreement stated that the government was going to investigate to what extent the reimbursement of psychological care could be developed in the first line. At the start of this study, I said that I wanted to take a first step, given the legitimate demand to pay back psychological care in the first line too. It has taken a great deal of effort to release EUR 22.5 million in the 2019 budget. Perhaps that amount is small, Mrs Merckx, if you compare it with the amounts that some people think should be available, but it was a first historic step, because it had been allocated EUR zero over many years. Of course, I asked for a much higher amount, but I didn't get it. So we had to row with the belts we had. The reimbursement was started on 1 April and is governed by an agreement between the RIZIV and each of the total 20 mental health networks for adults. These networks, known as the Article 107 networks, have developed well and functioned well, giving us the opportunity to implement it more quickly. The 65-plussers fell off the boat because they did not originally belong in those networks, so the measure did not apply to them. However, it is not a question of developing separate networks for people over 65, but simply of extending the measure. That concern was clearly positioned on the first line. These were generic psychological concerns for problems that are not yet advanced, but are still at an early stage. We want to act more quickly to prevent escalation. The sessions are provided by clinical psychologists and in a minority of cases by clinical orthopedagogues. With this budget, approximately 575,000 sessions can be reimbursed annually for the whole country. To avoid exceeding the budget, a maximum number of sessions per network has been set that can be reimbursed per year. Each network is responsible for distributing that capacity among clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues within its region. Within the FPS Public Health two psychologists have been appointed to supervise the implementation of the reimbursement in the field. In addition, the six-week execution is discussed jointly by the executives of the FOD and the RIZIV. The last full figures for the networks relate to the first four months of reimbursement, from April to July. In that start-up phase only part of the capacity was used: in July it was only 25%. We will then see an obvious increase in the use of the budget, but this will only be re-established after four months. A significant part of the repayment capacity remains unused, especially in the first four months. This is, of course, regrettable, because there has been a long and hard call to make it possible, but this is not exceptional in the introduction of completely new measures. What else have we done on the ground to make the new measure known? Each network had to organise a recruitment for the clinical psychologists from its region in the short term, so that they could apply. Of course it was also new for psychologists to conclude a contract with a relatively unknown network for them, but in the meantime it is running. There's some syndical opposition to the rates we're using, but that's localized. In any case, we get emails from people who first doubted to take the step. They should not do it full-time either. It can also be partial, for the desired number of patients per week or per month. Psychological care is, after all, one of the most delayed needs of care. Nevertheless, until June, more than 400 clinical psychologists have convenited, as have a minority of the clinical orthopedagogues, which are also less numerous. The networks were called upon to continue active recruitment. It is expected that psychologists who have good experience with the reimbursement and working with their network will be able to increase their number of sessions. The capacity utilisation rate will then also increase. Work is also under way to increase awareness of reimbursement among patients and, in particular, potential referral doctors. Patients should be referred to a prescription by their general practitioner or psychiatrist. Several initiatives have been taken to provide more information, such as brochures and information sessions for general practitioners. We shall continue with this work. Since the decision to make a budget available, my cabinet and the administration have held several consultations with the professional associations of psychologists and orthopedagogues, as well as with the sickness funds, medical associations and hospitals. That does not mean that we can respond to all the wishes there again. The referral by a doctor is difficult in some patients. Clinical psychologists say they have an autonomous profession and can receive patients directly, without referral. That is the case, and it will continue to be the case, but the referral is necessary for reimbursement. It is also said by the professional associations that the rate is too low, but these are calculations that had to bring some reasonableness into the rates. There is, of course, a tariff for which no refund was provided for. It was therefore an almost free fare. There's no tax chip. You understand it's a sensitive point, although not for everyone. These principles, which have been established by the government, are justified by the concern to provide as many people as possible with primary care while remaining within the envelope allocated. The reimbursement will be evaluated by a scientific team after four years. This evaluation will also be preceded by a survey of the participating psychologists and orthopedagogues. A guidance committee has also been set up, in which all the actors involved are represented, including psychiatrists, hospitals, health insurance funds, general practitioners, clinical psychologists and orthopedagogues. Mrs Merckx, you say that it has been calculated that 400 million is needed. I'm sure it is. After all, there is a great need for psychological support. It is incomprehensible that there has never been any reimbursement in this country. I have advocated this in the run-up to the elections. There must be an extension to the 65-plussers, because psychological problems do not stop at 65 years. Much more money must also be provided for this. That is a first step that is being taken here. Despite the fact that this was not provided for in the coalition agreement, funds are still being allocated for this purpose. I am curious to see how further that will be built. Another sigh was that one wants a nomenclature number and thus wants to be able to act autonomously. Working within a closed envelope with a nomenclature number is simply not possible. I also think that the GP has its role to play in the decision to refer someone to a particular psychologist for a particular complaint. Sometimes we do not have time to do so, or we are dealing with too serious problems and we need to take other measures. We come from a situation where our primary mental health care has been given very little or no resources in recent years, and where there has been a reverse organization of our mental health. There was a lot of super-specialised mental health care, especially in the hospitalization sphere, but very little attention was paid to primary care. The GPs went to the trouble of trying to take care of those patients. There are group practices that attract psychologists to refer to them and there is cooperation between GPs and individual or small group practices with psychological care providers. Well, if one did not go through those centres, it was actually an expensive business and therefore not accessible to everyone. At the CAW's they saw long waiting lists. Those were real thresholds. We have been able to shorten the waiting lists at the CAWs thanks to the use of that budget. If one thing is to be done in the next legislature, it is to build on it. It will have to be done step by step and it will cost money. You will find a partner in me for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u87	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are also aware that clinical psychologists may receive a little more funding. I hope that your successor or yourself, if you succeed yourself, will act in that regard in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u88	Madam Minister, I would like to add a number of elements to the debate after your reply. You have chosen to make the referral by the general practitioner to the psychologist compulsory. This contrasts with the fact that the reference to the specialist is still not linked to a refund, while we are sure that this method could be cost-effective. Is it necessary, in the context of first-line psychology, for everyone to pass through the general practitioner? One has to pay the general practitioner. Moreover, there is sometimes a big taboo to go to a psychologist with a particular problem. Will the doctor be told? That can sometimes be an additional threshold. The fact that you impose all kinds of criteria, including age, between 18 and 65 years old and the type of pathology, makes it very complex for the general practitioner, like me, to refer. By the way, unlike Belgium, where there is no refund, in Germany the sessions "a family member of mine is psychologist "a doctor" is fully reimbursed by social security. And Germany, as a country, isn't doing any less well than our country? Finally, 95% of general practitioners say they will prescribe less medication if the psychologist is refunded. That argument is quite important. The RIZIV spent 68 million in 2017 for the eight most prescribed antidepressants. Our country is the frontrunner in this matter. A refund can therefore work cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u89	We were campaigning against the use of benzos and antidepressants. However, there had to be something against it, especially the reimbursement of the psychologist. I repeat, someone can also go directly to the psychologist, albeit without reimbursement. That is why it is a pity that in the past no funds have actually been allocated for it. Health is holistic to me. Physical and mental health are a whole. One affects the other. They're inextricably linked. I'm not saying it can't be done otherwise, but it's useful that the GP is also aware that someone is going to a psychologist, just to know that he or she has a mental problem as well. After all, this can affect the physical symptoms. For example, abdominal pain in a child can have several causes. It can be an ailment in the abdomen, but it can also be a child who is really not feeling well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u90	Madam Minister, in that case it is important to listen to the psychologists who make that argument. Often patients will go to a psychologist for things they tell no one else but the psychologist. It is generally better that the GP is aware, but from my experience of twenty years of GP I can say that my patients do not tell me some things. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u91	I'm not saying the patients have to tell the doctor everything they tell the psychologist. Each has his skills. I also referred patients and then just asked if they'd been to the psychologist. They answer in the affirmative, but I didn't ask what the psychologist or what the patient said. I agree that a patient has the right to entrust matters to the psychologist alone. We have also taken this into account in the dossier. Not everyone wants such matters to be in their review. I agree with that. We must take a more holistic approach to human health. What's a healthy person? That is a person who feels good in his skin and in whom everything functions normally. We haven't done that for too long. For too long we have focused on physical and organic diseases alone, while one can catalyze the other. There is absolutely no need to tell the general practitioner what is being told to his or her psychologist. That's another story. I just think that the general practitioner should know that help is being sought and that he should be able to advise the patient to seek help, because that is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u92	I see you're finding each other. Now all you have to do is find the means.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u93	Madam Secretary, I heard you talk about the distress campaign on antidepressants, but I have not yet received an answer to my question. Were there any signs of a decline after that distress campaign and do you have any idea of the budgets released? As a result, have you taken initiatives to use these budgets as a priority for reimbursement systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u94	(...) but also for anxiolytics. The antidepressants are in our numbers, the anxiolytics aren't refunded, so they're not. You can get those numbers. I really don't remember that one right now. As with any detachment campaign, we have made modules for general practitioners. These can be explained by others, for example at meetings or round tables with general practitioners. Like all derailment campaigns, they need to be repeated. We've got the GPs on our side. A number of general practitioners will teach others and so the knowledge always goes on. We're champion pills, of course. Those distress campaigns will certainly have to be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u95	Madam Secretary, following the Week of the Heart, the Belgian Cardiological League warned about the excessive use of sugar in our diet. With 30,000 deaths a year, cardiovascular diseases are the main cause of death in Belgium. Eating too much sugar leads to obesity and long-term diabetes. A Belgian at 12 is already diabetic. By 2030, it will be one in ten. Half of the patients with diabetes die from cardiovascular problems, according to the BCL. The actions relating to salt consumption, which allowed you to force an agreement with the bakers to use less salt in their products, prove that such measures do indeed work. Since the salt content of the diet fell enormously without the introduction of a salt tax, we are in favour of abolishing the so-called sugar tax. We call it a hidden tax. Instead, one must make one hundred percent of the effort to prevent and raise awareness. Madam Minister, will you focus on preventive actions to particularly point out to young people the dangers of eating and drinking too much sugar? Will you cooperate with schools, youth clubs and youth associations? How much has the sugar tax paid for the government since it was introduced? Has there been a significant reduction in the consumption of sugared soft drinks since the entry into force of the sugar tax? Will you negotiate with the food sector to also reduce the sugar content of our diet? What specific plans do you have for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u96	Madam Minister, I would like to know how the government is going to ensure that there is less advertising for unhealthy food in public. Will there be a system whereby healthy products can be offered cheaper to groups in a difficult socio-economic situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u97	Ladies, it's really about the combination of taking a lot of calories with a sedentary life, with too little movement. Both intake and consumption are therefore important. If these are not in balance, this can lead to the emergence of so-called nutritional non-transferable diseases. In international jargon this is called nutrition and diet-related noncommunicable diseases. We are talking, among other things, about cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and cancer. The consequences of an unbalanced diet and lack of movement are great for both individuals and society, as this increases the pressure on healthcare spending. We therefore have every interest in preventing the development of these diseases. The only way to do that is through cooperation. The prevention levers are, to my great regret, the responsibility of the Länder, not because they are organized in the Länder, but because they do not have enough resources and do not have enough resources to do so. I invite you to look at the budget for prevention, Mrs Sneppe. Then you know enough. There must also be more awareness about balanced nutrition, already at school and also through the Flemish Institute of Healthy Life of l'Agence pour une Vie de Qualité, l'AviQ, and by encouraging movement, especially through sports at school and building the bicycle infrastructure to be able to go to school safely by bike. There is a great deal of awareness there, Mrs Sneppe, especially at the level of the Länder. I have worked, without touching on the powers of the state, with the tools I had to make the healthy choice for food products also easy. I have opted for the introduction of the Nutri-Score in Belgium, a five-colour food label and five-letter label, which allows consumers to easily assess the general nutritional quality of the product. We have followed the French and we are now being followed by other countries. It is true that more and more food companies start using the Nutri-Score and place the label on their home brands. In order to improve the composition of food products on the Belgian market, I closed a Covenant Balanced Food with the food industry and distribution during the past reign in 2015. You can find that on the site. That covenant contains quantified reductions in calories of products in our store shelves, for example for dairy, for biscuits or for chocolate products. We had set targets for the reduction of calories, sugars, fats and salt, but also for the multiplication of fibres that play an important role. It is now necessary to make a follow-up agreement on this and my services are already looking at it, but for that there must be a new government with full powers. We have already carried out an evaluation of this and the results were good. Let me give you the example of cereals. People often leave their sandwich with chocolate for breakfast cereals, but that is not always healthier, because there are also breakfast cereals that contain a lot of sugars. Mrs Farih, you mentioned that advertising for certain things can be tempting. Our initiatives have focused primarily on advertising for which children and young people are susceptible. That happens both in cinemas and on TV. There we want to limit advertising to products that meet certain nutritional standards. That was actually a follow-up to the covenant, the Belgian Pledge, one of the most progressive in Europe. You can find this on the website. At the time, more than 40 companies participated, including large hamburger chains such as McDonald's. So it is not just about the industry that supplies the raw materials, but also about the course, how this gets to the children. We have reached a maximum number of companies, but this should continue at European level. Mrs Sneppe, you are well placed for the demand for the proceeds of the so-called soft drink tax. In fact, this falls within the competence of the then Finance Minister, who is now in Europe, but you can ask the current Finance Minister, who remains competent to do so. Mrs Farih, we have had talks in the past ten years about making healthy food cheaper with the then Finance Minister, Mr Van Overtveldt. He said that a reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables, for example, from 6% to 0% was not possible for the sake of European regulation. This turned out to be the case. I assume this is still true, although it would be a good lever to make fruit and vegetables cheaper. As far as inter-federal cooperation is concerned, a permanent platform for the exchange of information on nutrition and health has been created at my initiative in the framework of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. For a joint plan of approach on nutrition-related non-transferable diseases it appeared too early. In fact, during the previous period of government, the Länder still had to develop their own policies through the powers they inherited from the sixth state reform. For some specific dossiers, such as the organisation and financing of the next food consumption survey, which will identify whether or not the Belgian eats in a balanced way and what developments there are to see, we have been able to cooperate well with the Länder, which will organise this survey. Therefore, excessive sugar consumption remains a focus of attention. The emphasis remains on sufficient movement. Consumers must, of course, also check what they buy in the shop. Those who do not buy unhealthy things cannot eat them at home or not give them to their children. That's actually the foor's trick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u98	That's how we learn tricks here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u99	Madam Minister, as far as the revenue from the soft drinks tax is concerned, I do not know if I am well placed to appeal to the previous Finance Minister, but I will, of course, do so. I have another question about the Covenant Balanced Nutrition. You are suggesting that the next government should build on that. What will be the content of that covenant in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u100	For each of the objectives in the first covenant we know where we have been hit. Some of the targets have been achieved well, but we have remained below the advanced target on chocolate. Apparently, it is very difficult to reduce the sugar content in the Belgian chocolate without making the taste too bitter, so it was not possible to achieve that objective. For products such as chocolate, we have therefore asked to offer the portions less large, for example by selling smaller bars. I am also thinking of the ready-made salads, for which we have obtained that dressing is added separately and in which the quantity of vegetables offered has increased, so that these bowls contain less other foods, such as croutons or pasta. The question of the Belgian food industry was to work in a way where the consumer continues to like it. After all, in our shelves are not only Belgian food but also foreign food. Our bread is the least salty. When one goes to France, one has the impression that one eats salt bread. And it is. We dropped that little bit by little. Soft drinks are also being worked on. We come there from high sugar levels. But that's where the sugar content drops, without anyone noticing it. We are very sensitive about sugar; if things are too drastic, we don't like it anymore. We know how far we have already fallen and where we can go in four to five years. New targets need to be set there. We'll have that checked. Measurements are checked at the Scientific Institute of Public Health. There's an auto check, but we're also doing a check on their readings. They accepted that. That is an objective way of working, otherwise one can say what one wants. That's a good way to work. Also in chains one must offer healthy things and not just fatness, salt and sugar on a lot. We have also given the JEP, the body that assesses advertising for children, more power, because children are very sensitive to advertising for cookies, chips and so on. It has been a good way of working and I would recommend that you continue it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u101	I would like to remind Members that they are supposed to ask a question or several questions, after which the Minister can answer and they can replicate. If new questions are asked each time, then the Minister has to answer again. She is happy to do so, and that is all interesting, but of course we are not getting ahead of ourselves. Mrs. Sneppe, you have no further comments? [[Assent]] Mrs Farih, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u102	Mr President, I will save some time. I don't have any extra questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u103	Mr President, Minister, there has been a lot to do recently about rare diseases. Let's think about Pia and Maxime. According to data from the Flemish Patient Platform, between 6% and 8% of the population is affected by a rare disease. This is accompanied by heavy medical costs, which often means that it is no longer financially feasible for such patients. I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. What is the Minister's policy on the recognition of rare diseases? Does the Minister have figures relating to the number of rare diseases in terms of the type of disease that occur in Belgium and the number of persons with a rare disease? Can the Minister therefore calculate what it would cost to recognise these rare diseases? Will the Minister amend its policy so that all rare diseases can be recognised and recognition facilitated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Sneppe, I believe that one thing needs to be done is that our health insurance system should be based on the recognition of diseases. I read all the time that I have to acknowledge this or that, but that's not how it works. Our system is based on the assessment of the needs of all patients and the answers that can be given to them. A rare disease can lead to the same needs as a non-rare disease. In general, this does not cause problems, as the benefits of our health insurance have been developed to help the population to the maximum. In other words, recognition simply does not exist. We don't work like this. There are specific needs in the field of rare diseases. A Plan for Rare Diseases was developed for this purpose. This plan came about in 2013 after meetings between various experts and recommendations by the King Baudouin Foundation. This plan sets out the priority measures for better diagnosis and follow-up of rare diseases. This plan was implemented on 1 January 2014 and several measures have been implemented. Let me give you a summary: a reimbursement of specific tests on clinical biology, quality criteria for laboratories for human inheritance, recognition of functions, reimbursement of medicines for 23 indications for rare diseases, the ETA/ETR scheme for rapid access to innovative resources in particular needs. This plan also developed a Central Register of Rare Diseases, which allows a better follow-up of the number of patients to better assess needs. Thanks to this registration in national patient registers, about 700 different rare diseases are currently known. These are diseases that suffer at least one of our Belgian patients. For this purpose, the introduction of appropriate rare disease codes into the information systems will also be used. In Belgium, 10,000 individuals with rare diseases were already collected in the national patient registers. For mucoviscidosis and neuromuscular disorders, data are also collected annually in the specific reference centres for those diseases. On the other hand, genetic centres provide data to the Central Register Rare Diseases. Patients who have been consulted and have been diagnosed with a genetic disease shall be recorded prospectively. For example, the version of the information obligation imposed by the privacy committee can be complied with. The list of rare diseases and the number of patients in that registry are growing steadily. Since most rare diseases are also chronic diseases, patients whose health costs reach the established ceiling enjoy different benefits, such as a reduced MAF. Patients with a chronic condition for whom the doctor fills out the certificate for rare diseases will receive that recognition for five years instead of the usual two years. So they do not fall out of the MAF scheme as quickly as other people. Our policy is also aimed at a cross-border approach, in particular for the consultation of experts in other countries. We actively participate in the European weird disease networks. We also started it in Belgium. Numerous scientists have been involved in these European weird disease networks. A few months ago, I started speaking to the European Commission for 600 participants involved. Our health insurance system is indeed not based on the recognition of a condition, but the Plan for Rare Diseases does allow for a faster and accurate diagnosis of undiagnosed diseases. The development of genomic medicine is certainly an important step forward in the diagnosis of rare diseases, most of which have a genetic origin. We knew diseases that were described, but they didn't know what their origins were. Now it turns out that often a genetic dislocation or another genetic defect is. That has helped us map them, because sometimes they are rare mutations, of which perhaps only one can be found in our country. Better and faster diagnosis and the development of adapted care paths should make it possible to better meet needs. There is a working group, consisting of the recognised functions for rare diseases in each university hospital, several experts on rare diseases and the RIZIV, which proposes the resources and the budget for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u105	Madam Secretary, I understand that it is not a question of recognition. However, there must be a certain system to determine which disease is rare and which is not. I may have misspelled it out of ignorance, but there has to be a certain measure to determine if something is a rare disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u106	If the diagnosis results in a disease that occurs only a few times in 100,000 people, that is a rare disease. That group is known. It may be one person or there may be more patients, as in the case of cystic fibrosis. Now, however, we can already make associations at genetic level between the things described in those people's disease. Because we can now do this genetic analysis, there are also cases of high speed trains. Often it is only one case or three in all of our countries. We are therefore obliged to work together at European level, with larger patient groups to determine more quickly what these people need and how their disease develops during their lives. For example, if you take stacking sickness, you see an analog gradient. However, if we only know two cases, we cannot know what their consequences will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u107	Madam Minister, I had put my question in the summer following the story of the two boys who died in Italy by a combination of alcohol and opioid painkillers. It was probably more lucrative use, but in the same period there was also a publication in the Dutch press on the higher number of opioid painkillers prescribed. More are prescribed and they are also prescribed for more indications: while opioid painkillers were previously reserved for terminal cancer patients, they are now prescribed more often, especially in the Netherlands, in chronic pain or after surgery. I feel that this is also the case in Belgium, but I do not have any figures. Hence my questions. In the case of long-term use, these substances are highly addictive. Withdrawal symptoms are observed when it is discontinued, which keeps patients taking them. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Is there also an increase in the requirements for opioid painkillers in Belgium? Do you have any figures on that? If there is an increase, will you take measures to limit them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u108	Mr President, Madam Minister, opiate drugs are painkillers derived from opium, causing an unprecedented health crisis in the United States. They are believed to have been responsible for the deaths of more than 300,000 Americans since 2000. According to a report by the Agence nationale de sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé, the prescription of strong opioids increased by around 150% between 2006 and 2017 in France. The number of hospitalizations increased by the same proportion, affecting nearly 2,600 people in 2017. It is estimated that four people die every week from an overdose of opioid painkiller in France. Minister, if these drugs have an undeniable medical interest, they also tend to lead to certain dependence on patients, with important consequences: risk of respiratory depression, coma and even overdose deaths. Because of the rapid increase in the number of poisonings, hospitalizations and deaths in other countries, it seems to me that we should be vigilant on this issue. Do you have figures on consumption of opiates in our country? What is the evolution of the prescription of opiates? Does an analysis of this seem necessary? Are there figures available on the consequences of their use in terms of hospitalizations and deaths? Should measures be taken to limit consumption and avoid dependence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u109	Thank you, colleagues. I refer to a recent study by the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. This study mapped the consumption data of five opioids between 2006 and 2017. These include tramadol plus combinations, oxycodone plus combinations thereof, tilidine, fentanyl and piritramide. Through its Pharmanet database, INAMI has figures on the reimbursement of medicines sold in public clinics. These statistics represent only part of the drug use. In the case of opioid analgesics sold in pharmacies, a comparison with the IMS database (resuming all deliveries) shows that the Pharmanet source covered 83% of the defined daily doses (DDD) treatments in 2018. When we look at the evolution of opioid refunds in pharmacies over the past 13 years, we see an increase of 73% in the DDD volume of this class of drugs, compared to 60% for all other drugs reimbursed. The number of patients who received at least one pack in this class during the year has almost doubled and now exceeds one million. The increase in reimbursements in hospitals is more limited, with a 13% increase in DDD volume over the same period. The data show that there is indeed an increase in the number of prescriptions for opioid painkillers in Belgium. The number of DDDs increases from 43.7 million to 79.4 million over this period and the number of users also doubles. An additional analysis of the data also found that a small percentage of patients are responsible for a large proportion of consumption. Three percent of patients taking opioid painkillers use 34% of all opioids. You can see there's a disproportion there. For example, when the drug analysis is done, 2.8 % of patients use 55% of piritramides and 11 % are responsible for 63 % of use of tilidine. When one uses it, one uses it a lot. That is, of course, the danger. If we look at the large consumers, with more than 700 DDDs on an annual basis, we see that 0.8 % of insured people use 15% of all opioid painkillers. It is significant that there is abuse by a small group with high usage. At the initiative of the RIZIV, there is a consultation between Sciensano, the FPS Public Health, the FAGG and the RIZIV. This working group closely monitors the situation and looks at several options to address the abuse. It's all prescribed. One could limit it to prescribing in certain specialties, postoperatively and closely monitoring patients with high consumption. However, we know that patients with high consumption do not meet their requirements in one place and do not get everything from the same pharmacist. In Belgium, we do not have data on direct consequences in terms of hospitalization and death. However, over the past 10 years, AFMPS has received 135 reports of opioids for which hospitalization and fatal development have been reported. These are 103 cases with hospitalization and 38 cases with fatal development. The two consequences have been notified six times. This involved the opioids buprenorphine, codeine, fentanyl, morphine, oxycodone, pentazocin, piritramid tapentadol, and tramadol. However, it should be noted that the causal link between hospitalization or death and opioids is not necessarily established for all of these notifications. Finally, the European Medicines Agency has proposed the establishment of a working group to monitor, share information, develop and coordinate strategies on abuse, misuse and dependence on opioids. In addition to this European reflection, awareness-raising among our health professionals on the rational use of these medicines is important. In addition, INAMI organized a consensus conference on the rational use of opioids in December 2018 in case of chronic pain. It made recommendations for the appropriate use of these drugs. In 2016, the Belgian Centre for Pharmacotherapeutic Information reported on the use of opioids in chronic non-cancer pain and the risk of abuse, addiction and, in 2019, on the use of opioids in chronic pain, osteoarthritis and back. AFMPS has put in place a strategy to limit the sizes and types of narcotic packaging. The information is available on the website. Opioids have a stupefying drug status. This means that health professionals who abuse the prescription, administration or delivery of these medicines by creating, treating or aggravating an addiction can be punished. Strict controls are carried out, both at the prescribers and at the delivery. Any doctor, veterinarian or dentist who has already prescribed these addictive medications may have to answer to the Provincial Medical Commission. Other measures have been implemented, such as the prohibition of publicity for this medication. The distribution channel is also regulated, the register must be kept at the pharmacist's premises and it can be checked who prescribed it and whether someone is shopping. It has already improved a lot with the map on which one can see that shopping is being done, but it remains a challenge. If we see what is happening in America and how it is made into recreational cocktails, I think it is right that we continue to work so hard on it. It is a small part of our population that suffers from excessive use, but we also see it emerging as a recreational drug. Those two boys died from the use of a combination of alcohol and very heavy drugs, delivered without prescription by a benevolent colleague of yours in Florence. He's being prosecuted for that, but that's not gonna bring these guys back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u110	Mr President, Minister, we do not approve of this. I suspect that such a risk is lower in Belgium, given the controls that exist in our country. You referred to the pharmaceutical file you shared. It is good that we can look at this as pharmacists. You have listed the measures. There are, and that's good, but I would argue that within that working group we should look at a pilot trajectory or a pilot project. There are pilot projects to guide the reduction of anxiolytics, but we should also include these opioid painkillers. Those small groups of patients who use excessive should be helped. You know that opioid derivatives are really addictive. There really is a path to be drawn up for this. You can do that perfectly through the pharmacy as part of a pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u111	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, the figures we are hearing are not such as to reassure us of what could become a health crisis. We will therefore remain very attentive to the various avenues explored by the various working groups set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u112	Madam Minister, we have just talked about biosimilars in a previous discussion. So I shall be brief, because we are running out of time. What interests me, however, is the programme manager who has been appointed for biosimilars. He would map the use of biosimilars and also propose measures and advice. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What actions has the Programme Manager taken since his appointment? What types of advice is he supposed to bring? Can we expect advice on specific incentives or quotas? Or are we talking about the impact on hospital funding that has to do with it as well as the vision and approach of the CTG? You said just now that the 2020 budget also includes measures to stimulate biosimilars. Is this concrete and part of the programme manager's task? Within what period do you expect concrete answers, solutions and recommendations from the programme manager?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u113	Madam Minister, we have started the day with medicines and we may end the day with medicines as well. Indeed, we have just spoken about biosimilars on the verge of discussing your budget proposal, Madam Minister. I will come back to that later in the questions. However, the reason for my question was a little more specific, namely that there is an investigation by the Belgian Competition Authority (BMA) into several pharmaceutical companies. The BMA investigates whether agreements have been made between hospitals and pharmaceutical companies for the purchase of their more expensive medicines by means of "unlawful practices," i.e. the creative use of, or some even cheat on, the public procurement procedure. With that creative use or cheating, one can push cheap white products, biosimilars, out of the market. We all know that Belgium scores the worst in Europe when it comes to the use of generic medicines in hospitals. As far as the use of biosimilars is concerned, it is even worse. It has also been stressed by many earlier, in recent years there has been a significant increase in RIZIV expenditure on medicines in hospitals, while some argue that other segments of the pharmaceutical sector, non-hospitals, are stabilising or even declining. These figures have been repeated by some here this morning. Madam Minister, we both know that the purchase and use of medicines in hospitals is driven by several factors. These factors relate, inter alia, to the internal functioning and financing of our hospitals. That has already been explicitly referred to. Although such an approach can be understood from the hospital's point of view, many hospitals use the margin on their pharmacy to keep their hospital out of red figures, this practice is not congruent with an approach that seeks maximum cost-effectiveness for our health insurance, and that is what we must strive for. In other words, this situation is not sustainable in the long term. Medaxes, the umbrella of companies of generic medicines and biosimilars, proposed in a memorandum some of the savings that could result in the sale of generics and biosimilars for health insurance, a good 270 million euros, to be returned to the financing of hospitals. The hospitals will see that on the margins on their pharmacy. Moreover, these financial incentives could be linked to the cost-effective use of medicines in hospitals. This could be further supported. I have two questions for you, Madam Secretary. Firstly, more generally, what measures will you take? You have announced that you will continue to promote the use of biosimilars with a view to the 2020 budget, which means potential savings for health insurance. Are you thinking of hospital quotas, which were discussed in the exercise following the proposal of the Insurance Committee, although with a view to the 2020 budget? What do you think of the idea that dome organization Medaxes is proposing to redirect some of the savings generated by the sale of generics and biosimular medicines in the hospitals back to the funding of hospitals, whether or not together with the imposition of a number of KPIs to support cost-efficient use of medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u114	The role of the Programme Manager for Biosimular Medicines Policy is to create a landscape that promotes the use of biosimular medicines, thus ensuring the sustainability of the organic market segment. This can be done, among other things, by further developing and sharing academic expertise on the further development of biosimular medicines policy. When I started, we were nowhere on the map with regard to the use of biosimular medicines. We had an uptake of 0 % everywhere. We have worked hard on this. We see an uptake, but of course it remains below the percentages in the countries around us. An important tool is the realisation of a study which should provide important answers regarding the justification of the prescription, the concerns of doctors and patients, the time spent providing information to the patient and other relevant elements for policy making, in collaboration with the scientific association of the prescribers concerned and with the patient associations. You know that Belgium is a country where the choice of therapy is rather high. We are faced with doctors who are not convinced that it is safe for the patient or who do not know and therefore do not use them. The aim is to come up with an action plan. Currently, the Programme Manager for Biosimular Medicines Policy is working with the various stakeholders involved in the initiatives implementing the national agreement between doctors and health insurance funds of 2017. The programme manager's assignment is over a period of two years. It is about setting up, developing, guiding and analysing the study. The policy recommendations should also be drawn up within this period. We have already used the plan to reinvest realised savings through the use of biosimilars in the covenant that I concluded in 2016 with the hospital sector and scientific associations to promote the use of biosimilar medicines. The key there was 90 % for the hospital and 10 % for the government, but a generous distribution. The same philosophy was also used in developing an incentive for physicians if they reach a certain threshold of requirements for biosimilars of the molecules adalimumab and etarnecept. After all, switching to starting a treatment with biosimilars requires a doctor's effort that can be compensated by the incentive, funded by the savings resulting from the use of the biosimilars. We will continue to evaluate this measure, we may need to refine it or expand it further. It has already been mentioned that we have included a heading for this in the budget proposal, taking into account the results we have seen with regard to the uptake of biosimilars in both the outpatient and hospital sectors. We then see that there is a very large variation in the uptake, but with our average we are still lower than abroad. For this purpose, a mixed task force will be set up in the lap of the RIZIV and will have to develop concrete proposals. We ask for a first report by 28 February 2020. We give three months to do the first things. Those people know what it's about, so it should be possible. A number of new measures are also being taken to this end. I think it is indeed important that we continue to work on this. Mr Bertels, it was always a mystery to us why, despite all these incentives, in some hospitals the uptake of biosimilars was done so little or evolved so slowly. In that respect, the current investigation may unravel the mystery. It is a judicial investigation, of which we must of course wait for the results, but I am curious to see the outcome, although I do not think it will be so soon. So we are not going to wait for that either, but we are going to continue our work. As I said, through the round tables in the lap of the RIZIV we know what's coming to us about innovative oncological medication in the biosimilars. In the next period nine such funds will be placed on the market in large volumes. We really need the money that we can save in order to pay for the other innovations. So there really is a challenge for us. Moreover, many countries are faced with this. For example, in Norway, hard work was done to invest the money saved in biosimilars. We have made a strong effort to encourage the use of generic substances. For biosimilars, we have made similar efforts. For some biosimilars, use has increased, which was not so difficult, as use was previously zero. However, we do see a big difference in uptake. For example, Filgrastim has 40% uptake in our country, but if we look more closely at the distribution, we can see that 72% is in Flanders, and much less in Wallonia and Brussels. Well, if the use in Flanders is already at 72% and in Wallonia and Brussels is barely increasing, a result for the take-up is more than 40% for that product hardly feasible. This is also the case with very large hospitals, where there is almost no uptake. In this case, we can do what we want in small hospitals; the figure will not increase. It's a mystery to me, but I hope the investigation that's going on can help. I don't know where it's coming from, but I think it's gonna give us a hint of the veil.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u115	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief. I am also looking forward to the results of the research and to the figures that will be given. After all, it really stands out. When Humira or adalimumab came onto the market, everyone in the sector thought that the boat had left and that patients would be switched massively or that the biosimilar would be started immediately. That will not happen, however. So there is something very wrong with the changeover. I'm curious to see what will come out of the bus.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic054x.u116	Mr President, Minister, as regards research, we will have to wait and see when the results will come. We do not know that. We will also have to wait and see what results will emerge. The study mainly covers prepared workbooks and conditions which may or may not be linked to worksheets. Those are things we need to take with us. Madam Minister, a second point is more important. The first point is also important, of course. The second point, however, is a little more in your hands. We must effectively pursue a proactive policy. After all, you yourself point out that the take-up is far too low. There are also inexplicable differences between parts of the country and between hospitals within the same part of the country. That's not normal. The exercise is probably also ongoing, but this has to do with global hospital funding, which will have to be taken into account in this respect. You're right. There was an exercise with a key in 2016. From a distance, a 90/10 key seemed reasonable, but the key didn't work. This means that for some the 90/10 incentive is not even sufficient and, as you yourself have announced, will need to be refined, evaluated and certainly adapted. Now we're not getting there. Following on from the previous medicomut agreement and the forthcoming medicomut agreement, which I hope can be concluded this year, will you support measures that are moving towards quotas for hospitals? You have implicitly referred to the importance of the free choice of therapy, in this case the doctors for what they prescribe. Are there any incentives for the prescription behaviour of doctors? That exercise has been going on for quite some time. In this respect, too, there is a great difference between prescribers. We have to work on that, too. I hope that the report, which Parliament will receive at the beginning of 2020, will contain concrete actions and cost-effective measures for our health insurance, otherwise we will continue to follow the facts as our neighbouring countries progress.
