ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u1	Minister, I am pleased that we are able to hold a further questioning session with you today, which originally looked different, but European affairs are as they are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u2	Mr President, my question dates from a while ago. I am therefore pleased to see the Minister here in committee to answer our questions. In mid-September 2019 an emergency centre for asylum seekers was set up in Kwartier Moorslede in Leopoldsburg. This is the result of the ongoing asylum crisis in this country and the growing need for asylum shelters. It would be a temporary initiative, as it is usually announced, and the reception centre would be an open reception centre. I will not ask you to explain the asylum crisis here. There are other places in this house for that. However, I have some specific questions relating to defence. Can you provide more information on the number of on-the-spot reception places and the planned time limit for reception, of course the time limit communicated to Defence? What is specifically expected of the Defense Department? Are there any additional tasks for military personnel and what do they entail? What is the expected impact of this decision on budget, staffing and so on?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u3	Mrs Ponthier, the emergency shelter for asylum seekers in Kwartier Moorslede has been hosting the first refugees since Monday 23 September. A total of 500 reception places are provided. The period for reception shall be 18 months. No additional duties were requested from the Defense Department. As a result, Defence should not intervene in terms of budget, material or personnel. This is a task for other departments and organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u4	Minister, that is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u5	Mr Minister, we are thinking of extending the third-grade training in security to include an option for defence. We heard this in the media. People of Defense themselves have also given reactions and suggestions on this issue. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Until a few years ago, young people could go to the barracks of Saffronberg, Namur and Zedelgem for the third degree of secondary education. That's how they got a D.O.D. degree at defense's expense. These young people eventually graduated as skilled petty officers. Many later even became officers. The great advantage of this way of working was that the boarding school system allowed young people to be made fully-fledged soldiers. As far as we are concerned, this system may be revived, but you may point out your vision and that of the Defense Department in your reply. The training for 16-year-olds, the so-called level 3+, was divided into different disciplines. For example, it could be formed in military sciences. They were able to specialize in aircraft techniques. Is the DOD also thinking of re-training technical profiles? What concrete benefits will there be with regard to the influx into Defense for young people who have been trained in Security and Defence? Can young people also obtain certain licences? Will they be given driving training, as can be done within the Defense Department? Will the diploma be linked to a service degree? In which occupational category will young people eventually enter? What influence will the diploma have on subsequent promotions as military? Will the pupils be favoured in this? Will some of the young people be diverted to the reserve framework? Following the extensive debate within the Ministry of Defence on the retirement age, do we also wonder whether the number of years spent in secondary education will have a positive impact on the calculation of the retirement age? There are many parties involved in this development. In Flanders, the Flemish government will be competent to deliver the diploma. In September we were allowed to visit the staff and Evere. That's when we talked about this. Where are the negotiations on this matter with the Flemish government and other partners? What will be the effective value of this type of diploma in the broad labour market? If the diploma was not recognised by other employers, this could have a detrimental effect on the influx of potential candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I agree with a number of these questions. First of all, where are we with the training? What stage of the training are we at? Secondly, project manager Colonel Delhaie states that the young people who graduate in this direction can take the basic course of Defense in a much shorter period of time. Do we interpret this as giving enough insider knowledge to the students to succeed faster or can the diploma have the value of a so-called fast track within Defence itself? Thirdly, is training also being developed with other opportunities in mind in the labour market than in the defence sector? Has there been consultation with other players such as firefighters and police, on which the current third-degree training in Safety is now focused? How does Defense ensure that it does not only contribute to better training for other sectors? Fourthly, will the training allow specialization for a particular component of the Defense Department? Is the training rather focused on a future within the army or rather generic? Fifth, about 15 schools would be interested in organising the training. How many students does the Defence Department want to attract and is the geographical distribution of the schools sufficiently taken into account? Do you have an overview of the schools where this would be offered? Sixthly, soldiers would vouch for giving a number of courses. How many soldiers does the Defense intend to free up to give this teaching? How does it view the division of tasks within the curriculum between military teachers and civilian teachers? How does the Minister estimate the budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are many questions, while we are still working on the draft and on negotiations with the Communities. I'll give you some elements. Secondary education is one of the Communities' responsibilities and does not constitute a core task of Defence. The education of young people in secondary education within Defence was therefore abolished many years ago. After several reorganisations, only the Royal School of Petty Officers in Saffranberg remains responsible for the basic military formation and professional training of the Petty Officers of Defense. From the time of incorporation, i.e. after completion of compulsory schooling, the Department of Defence will further train the candidate officers, officers and volunteers in various fields, including purely military, but also a whole range of technical profiles such as electromechanics, computer science, aircraft or vehicle technology, armament. The talks on the establishment of a Defence and Security Training Programme are held in parallel with the French and Flemish Community. The file is at the stage of the development of the subject area and the preparation of a professional qualification dossier. This is done in close cooperation with the competent department of both communities and the various interested partners. The aim is to offer the course in different schools from the school year 2021-2022. Young people who will receive training under the Security and Defence option of secondary education will have a good overview of the different professions they can practice in the Defence Department and will be able to provide a better picture of the specific aspects required for a military job, inter alia through internships during training. In addition, they will be prepared for physical access tests and for the military basic formation, which immediately follows the incorporation. They will also be able to enjoy a shorter basic formation, as a number of modules of this formation will be included in the training package of the third degree. The fire department, the police and the prison guards, along with the Defense Department, are involved in the consultation. Students will receive common lessons, which are important for all security professions and Defense, such as lessons related to behavioural competences and the use of violence. There will also be specific lessons per actor. Defence plans to teach military basic training during the third degree by sending military personnel to the schools and organising internships at Defense. The training will be generic, regardless of the later component or the later occupation with the Defense Department. The orientation in the Defense Department takes place in the selection, as with any other candidate who offers. Our first target group are the schools where today the seventh year of Integral Safety is offered. These are about 15 schools in Flanders and 15 schools in Wallonia and Brussels. We believe that the interest in this discipline will grow progressively and hope for a few dozen students per organising school. The military teachers in the schools are chosen on the basis of the training to be given. The workload will depend, among other things, on the practical implementation of the curriculum, the number of schools participating and the contributions of the other partners in the training. At present, we estimate the workload for Defense at three hours a week for thirty-five weeks per school year. They also include internships in the units. The organisation, division of tasks and budgetary impact will only be discussed in the next phase. In any case, the defence will cover all costs incurred by the organisation of the internship, in particular transport, nutrition and insurance. Depending on the learning objective and the curricula, graduates will indeed receive a number of licences, such as the first aid award, as well as one or more professional qualifications. The discussions are ongoing, both with the Flemish and with the French Community. Driving training will not be included in the education package of the third degree secondary education. The diploma is also not linked to a certain military degree. The aim of training in the third degree of secondary education is to allow the candidate to enter as active military personnel under the status of limited or unlimited duration. graduate young people will be able to apply to Defense as a candidate volunteer, a candidate officer or a candidate officer. Those categories of staff are subject to different admission tests. The diploma of secondary education does not in any way affect the promotional opportunities of the military. The years spent in secondary education do not affect the calculation of the retirement age of the military. We will continue to prepare for the new formation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer to a number of punctual questions. The plan has been well developed by the Defense Department and by all other security-related partners. That's just us. The ball is now mainly in the educational sector, with which cooperation is needed. In July 2019 I also had a question put in the Flemish Parliament. That's how old my question is. The answer to that question shows that the Department of Education is far from ready to integrate everything into its courses. Much remains to be done in this area in particular. For us, this is a very valuable proposal, which deserves to be deepened and which deserves our appreciation and every chance of success.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u9	Minister, I am satisfied. I think it's getting better. I can certainly help you with contacts with the Flemish Minister of Education, whose good friend I am, for many years, Mr Weyts. He will receive that with a great deal of goodwill. I will address him personally on that. I'll see him today. That way that can also start in Flanders. I do not know who on the French-speaking side is the minister responsible. There may be several of them. That is the way things are going there. I do have one more question. Could you get us that list, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u10	It's gonna be okay. We will ensure that this is included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u11	Minister, an article published in the media in mid-August stated that King Albert's 4.6 million euro luxury yacht is flying under military flag. I was not aware of this, as it turns out once in a while the media are useful. In practice, this means that the royal couple would enjoy a number of privileges. Can the royal couple still count on the deployment of military personnel on board their luxury yacht? If so, how many staff are we talking about and what is the cost? If that is no longer the case, when was the last time? How much did that cost in the years in question? Is there any other form of staff employed for that yacht, for example for maintenance? Mr Minister, can you confirm that the yacht is registered as a warship, which means that no VAT has to be paid? Can you confirm that the fee for the yacht concerned is financed by public funds? If so, what was the cost for the years I have referred to in my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u12	Minister, I would like to add my voice to the questions that have already been asked. It is nice to call his ship Alpa, referring to the romantic couple Albert and Paola. It is difficult to describe it as a military ship, it is rather a luxury yacht by the royal couple, which received the necessary attention in the media during this summer. In the past too, written questions have already been asked by colleagues Wouters and Pas. The fact that a king's pleasure boat is still under the flag of the Navy and bears the military registration number A982 raises a number of questions. The same applies to the fact that military personnel served on the ship, that the fees were paid by the State and that there was an exemption from VAT at the time of purchase. Minister, in the past, your predecessors and yourself have always made it very clear in response to written questions and have confirmed that there has been no contribution in respect of staff or any financial intervention from Defence in recent years. That reassures me. Can you confirm that orally here? Hopefully there's no changes on the way. Secondly, on the question of why the ship remains on the official Navy list, it seems to be argued that, in addition to a custom, it is for identification and security reasons, so that appropriate measures can be taken in the event of possible risks. It is not entirely clear to me how we should interpret that. Since the DOD doesn't take care of security, what exactly are these identification and security reasons? What risks do you see in a standard registration of this pleasure boat in the ship register? In addition to a VAT-free purchase and a fee exemption, what additional tax benefits can result from the registration of the ship as a Defence ship?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u13	Colleagues, since the king's change in mid 2014, no soldiers have been made available for the Alpa yacht of King Albert II. The Alpa is registered in the shipping register as a royal yacht, and so certainly not as a warship. The ship is also registered on the Navy's list of sailing units. No invoices have been paid by the Navy since mid-2014 in the name of the Alpa. There are no costs borne by the Navy today in connection with the Alpa. This will also be maintained in the future. However, the royal yacht remains on the Navy's list, for the sake of discretion in favour of the royal family. After all, a military ship does not have the same identification obligations as a civilian ship. Since the Navy has not paid an invoice in the name of the Alpa in the last five years, no additional tax advantage is generated from the Defense Department, and that remains the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. To be honest, it would kill me, for the simple reason that there is a budget deficit of more than EUR 11 billion and that in these times a lot of people are having a hard time making ends meet, should the former head of state still be sponsored for all kinds of privileges, especially for his luxury yacht, for his pleasure boat, as Mr Buysrogge rightly called it. I am therefore pleased that this is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u15	Minister, you make it very clear that there is no tax benefit from the fact that the yacht is registered with the Navy. Discretion is the argument to keep it under Navy flag anyway. It is not entirely clear to me whether that criterion cannot be maintained without the yacht being registered with the Navy. I'd like to look into that myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u16	Mr Verduyckt has informed me that he must also be present on another committee, but that his question could certainly be dealt with, even though he is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u17	Mr Minister, the need to work on a proactive recruitment policy within the Ministry of Defence is not new. The reduction of the age pyramid and the attractiveness of a career in Defense are major challenges for the near future. Because of the huge retirement wave of the coming years, Defence obviously has no choice but to be creative in attracting young people. It sometimes also targets specific target groups. For example, the Defense Department recently launched a video campaign that wants to draw Muslim young people across the line to become military. The video explains, among other things, that the army gives Muslims the opportunity to separate themselves from praying when the service allows it. It is also pointed out that Defence sends so-called representatives of different religions on missions abroad. So there would be an imam who only works for the Defense Department. I have the following questions. How many Muslims are serving in the Belgian army today? Can you indicate the evolution over the last ten years? How are those data kept and updated? How does the screening of applicants take place? How do you evaluate the diversity policy pursued in the Belgian army in recent years? A few years ago it was reported that a dozen Salafists would be active in the army. One of your predecessors, Minister De Crem, wanted to address that problem at the time, but he immediately stumbled upon a number of legal problems to point the soldiers involved at the door. What is the current state of affairs in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u18	Minister, I would like to come back to the issue of diversity in Defence. Indeed, in an open society, a sovereign power such as the army must set an example in terms of equality and non-discrimination. This example must be reflected not only at the recruitment stage, but also throughout the career of both civilian and military personnel. Diversity within Defence must also be respected in all respects: gender, origin, sexual orientation, philosophical and religious convictions. In addition, this policy of non-discrimination must be applied vertically to all ranks, so that everyone can aspire to an evolution of his or her career in the army. Therefore, a Defence in accordance with its time must be the mirror of our society, whose protection it provides. As such, my group has tabled a motion for a resolution along these lines. Minister, what steps have you taken to ensure the greatest possible diversity within Defence? Given that more than 12,000 people will need to be hired by 2024, have there been any guidelines for recruitment and policies targeting new target groups? Finally, what internal complaints mechanisms are in place to combat all forms of discrimination within the Defence, from recruitment to promotion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u19	Mr Bayet, I had not received your question, but I do not know for what administrative reason. Something didn't work in the system, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u20	This is the parliamentary system, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u21	Probably. This can happen. Still, I share your analysis. So, as far as your presentation is concerned, I have no difficulty, but I have only one answer in Dutch. Then I'll come back to your question. Figures on culture and any associated religion are not kept by the Department of Defense because they belong to privacy. Nor do we have any figures that allow us to compare ourselves with other European armies. The Recruitment and Selection Service transfers the necessary data from applicants to the Defence Security Service. This service performs a security screening and then communicates the resulting advice to the Recruitment Service. Defence bases its diversity policy on five specific themes, one of which is a cultural identity. Defence applies the legislation relating to certain forms of discrimination and to the punishment of certain acts of racism or xenophobia. Origin, birth, colour, faith or belief, national or ethnic origin, nationality, political belief, social origin and so-called race are all protected criteria. In addition to this obligation, the Defence Department is convinced that the systematic integration of the theme of cultural identity into the whole of its policy will strengthen the overall success of Defence and that of operations in particular. Defence thus undertakes to make a permanent objective of respect for the different cultural identities, both in its internal and external policies and in the performance of national and international tasks. Defence does not use measurable indicators to evaluate this policy. Legal possibilities and interventions should always be reflected in the principles of law relating to the freedom of worship and expression, as provided for in Article 19 of the Constitution, as well as in the framework of military discipline. The Constitution requires respect for any philosophy, religion or thought that anyone residing on Belgian territory may have. However, it imposes a restriction on this freedom which cannot allow it to serve as a justification for committing criminal offences. Article 27 of the Constitution also protects freedom of association. Thus, by applying these rules, in the absence of criminal conduct, Defence cannot take action against a military by basing itself solely on the membership of this military of a group considered to be extremist. However, by applying the rules of military discipline, the military status laws may be replaced where a military offence is incompatible with the status of military. For its open spaces, technical, operational, logistical functions, etc., Defence seeks to reach the widest possible audience through a range of activities such as participation in job events, info days, open-door days and social media. As far as possible, efforts are made to lay different accents in order to demonstrate the range of possibilities within Defence. Mr Bayet, I would add that there is a series of activities and contacts with young people organised with a view to as open a recruitment as possible. It will also be necessary to increase a more decentralized field presence, particularly in areas where recruitment capacity is greater, by trying to reach all the populations that can be affected and without discriminating back and forth. Of course, there are internal procedures for filing complaints or petitions in cases of discrimination. We want to work in the broadest and most open recruitment logic possible, without, however, keeping statistics on certain criteria, because we have neither the intention nor the legal authorization.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Equality and diversity and non-discrimination in the field are noble concepts which deserve all the attention and recommendation. In this case, the Defense Department specifically targets a certain group of young people with a particular religion, which I found strange in itself. The challenges that Defence faces in terms of staffing and recruitment are great. There is a letter addressed to the employees of the Defence Department in connection with that call, which highlights several points of interest in dealing with colleagues in the context of recruitment in general. However, given the circumstances in the past, as I pointed out in my question, I would also have liked to see the defence staff also call for vigilance for signals that might indicate radicalisation. This applies in general and especially to Muslim young people. Experience teaches us that, we should not faint about that. We have seen it here in the past and recently in France with the police, where cops testified that a colleague of theirs was gradually radicalised without them noticing. It was a very friendly colleague and there was no dirt in the air, until suddenly there was a fact of a knife attack. I just want to warn you about it. Within the Defence Department, extra vigilance should be shown specifically for that target group. Additional alertness is needed for signals that can present themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. Let the army be in the image of our society, that is, diverse and open, is something appreciable. I would also like to thank you for stressing the importance of this concept within the army and for decentralization. I live in the Charleroi region and it must be noted that historically the army is not very present because of the location of the barracks. However, there too, the army could very easily recruit by conducting concrete operations. I therefore welcome the idea that we will be able to address this issue in the context of the discussion of the resolution that we have tabled. Indeed, this is an important subject for the army and for our young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Lacroix's 55000349C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u25	Minister, in the defence magazine Janes, a captain of the Belgian Special Forces Group stated on 16 April that our special forces are looking for C-UAS capacity. Counter unmanned aircraft systems need to defend our troops against a whole new series of threats based on drones, so-called killer drones and unmanned swarms. I'm sure you've seen the videos on YouTube about killer drones and unmanned swarms. It's really scary what's being made these days. Many analysts expect defence to increasingly face these threats in the future. That is no longer a far-off bed show when we see how far countries like China, the US and Israel have progressed in the development, even the development, of suicidal drones. Our northern neighbors are certainly not going to be in the right place and have set up a C-UAS Test Center this year, which should give the Dutch defense the capacity to detect and combat drones effectively. Is it true that our special forces aim to develop a specific C-UAS capacity? If so, what are the objectives? Does the Defence Department have knowledge of the Dutch project and have there been discussions about any coordination or cooperation between the two countries? Does Defence see bones in a specific knowledge centre, such as that of the Netherlands, for developing its own defence strategies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u26	Mr Francken, Defence aims to protect all its units and installations, both at home and during operations, from the threat posed by unmanned aircraft. However, there is currently no counter unmanned aerial system that provides a closing solution to the full spectrum of drone threats. The ideal solution is a mix of available systems in different sub-domains. The Belgian Defence has followed the various development phases of the Dutch project, from the beginning. In addition to the exchange of information and knowledge, joint tests are also organised. Belgium is not currently pursuing its own knowledge centre, but knowledge is shared with the main NATO and EU partners around us. We participate in the C-UAS working groups and we are observers in the newly launched PESCO project C-UAS. In addition, there is cooperation at national level with the federal police, skeyes and BIPT. In short, cooperation is aimed at protecting our units and installations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u27	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u28	Minister, the Leuven City Council decided on 24 June to expropriate part of the Heptinne barracks in Heverlee in a friendly manner. In particular, it concerns the buildings and sites of the former firing range, which have been in disuse for several years. The infrastructure of the barracks, due to the lack of suitable alternatives within the city itself, has been made available to Leuven sports associations in recent years. The university and the municipalities also liked to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the barracks. In 2013, the city of Leuven and the province of Flemish Brabant concluded an agreement with Defence to plant a provincial cycling centre on the domain. In this case, however, it is not an agreement on the use of the military's sites but a transfer. The land and buildings, regardless of their current state, will no longer be able to be used for military needs or exercises. That is why I have the following questions, Minister. The city of Leuven understands to have an agreement with the Defense Department on the transfer. How does the rejection of these surplus areas fit in with the Defense Department's vision of the future of the barracks in Heverlee? Was the possibility of granting the city, instead of expropriation, only the use of the buildings or land, in line with the example of the cycling centre examined? The housing of youth associations in the domains of Defense could have kept young people warm for a career in the army. Will the DOD use the proximity of youth associations to strengthen the relationship with the community? Will the 283 000 euros that should be transferred from the site be used to upgrade the barracks of Heverlee itself, which, like many barracks on Belgian territory, could use some upgrading?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u29	Mr Francken, the sale of surplus defence sites, including the former firing range and associated military buildings in Heverlee, is part of the process of rationalizing the infrastructure implemented in 2007. The former firing mode no longer met today's military standards to allow shooting to move and was put out of service. On a punctual basis, the cycling centre uses a part of the practice domain, which is also used by the military as a training spear for vehicles. However, the former firing mode no longer has any military use, which transferred that land for alienation to the FPS Finance. Defence has been pursuing an active policy for years to strengthen its relationship with the civilian community. Youth associations, schools and sports associations may, subject to certain conditions, use, inter alia, defence bivouac sites and sports infrastructure, provided that there is no impact on their military use. This policy is continued, including for the military domain in Heverlee. The revenues of the sale of real estate from Defence flow back to Defence as an investment budget in the year of sale. This budget is used to carry out the much-needed investments. That is an exception to the general rules, as in the case of the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u31	Mr Minister, in the previous legislature, our committee visited Poelkapelle, where we were able to see how much work was left on the shelf in connection with the decommissioning of the explosive material present there. It surprised me that DOVO announced in August that it disabled its five thousandth projectile, with a liquid toxic content, in the specially developed annihilation chamber by Dynasafe. As a result, the delay, which occurred between 2012 and 2017, following an internal explosion, has been completely eliminated and the investment of EUR 16.8 million in a static detonation chamber in Poelkapelle has proved its worth. At the same time, the number of orders for DOVO is increasing. In the past, I have already asked questions about this and obtained figures. Among other things, due to terrorist threats and the recent drug war in the province of Antwerp, the number of interventions by DOVO is increasing. In the first seven months of this year, DOVO had 16 interventions, while there were only 18 for the whole of 2018. Apparently, a quarter of the calls come from the province of Antwerp. Mr President, what are the consequences of the rapid dismantling of stocks in the Poelkapelle areas on the use of the extermination chamber and the division of labour at DOVO? Will DOVO change its priorities and resources in the coming years, now that the backlog in Poelkapelle has been reduced and there is a greater demand for interventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u32	Mr Bayet, for the record, we have just received your question of 6 November in the system. So it's direct! The tasks of DOVO are described in the Protocol Agreement on the deployment of DOVO on the national territory of 30 June 2014. For the tasks described, DOVO has several sub-units: Meerdal, Poelkapelle and Zeebrugge. They each have their specifics. The processing of World War I chemical ammunition is an assignment of the Company Poelkapelle of DOVO. It has adapted resources in staff and equipment for this purpose. The mission in the context of the fight against great banditism and terrorism is a mission of the Compagnie Meerdaal of DOVO. The rapid dismantling of the remaining chemical ammunition in Poelkapelle does not affect the division of labour at DOVO. The installation in Poelkapelle is further used to process the chemical ammunition, which is collected daily. Every year DOVO receives an average of 3,500 applications for the collection and destruction of war munitions from both world wars. This results in an average collection of 220 tons of ammunition. Ten percent of that ammunition may have a chemical content and should be processed in the company Poelkapelle of DOVO. The delay in the processing of chemical ammunition in the static detonation chamber will be overtaken by the end of 2020. The capacity released by phasing out will continue to be used for the processing of the other chemical and non-chemical ammunition. So there's definitely still work on the shelf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u33	Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u34	Mr Minister, the arrival of the A400M aircraft seems like a long-distance flight. The arrival of these planes has been announced for a long time. Hopefully they'll land on the territory by 2020. The A400M will be the workhorse of our Air Component in the coming decades to replace the old C-130. In April this year you visited the Airbus assembly plant in Seville, where the aircraft builder is gradually finishing the first new aircraft to arrive in Melsbroek in May 2020. It was a joint visit with your Luxembourg colleague, in view of the joint acquisition and operation of the strategic transport aircraft. Of the eight A400M devices delivered between 2020 and 2022, one will operate under Luxembourg colours. Mr President, first of all, what timetable does the Defence Department have for the retraining of both pilots and ground personnel for the transfer of the C-130? When will the A400M really be operational? Secondly, how are the adjustments to the Melsbroek airport, in particular the construction of a new maintenance shed to receive the A400M? Thirdly, our country will be responsible for the logistical support, training, adjustments and support equipment of the Luxembourg aircraft. What are the challenges that Defense expects in essence in creating a new foreign air force, which will operate from our territory? Finally, after the problematic development and production of the device, what timetable does the Defense now use for the final phase-out of the C-130 and what is the fate or destination of these devices?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u35	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to go back to what has been said. Building planes takes time. This is a European project that was wanted at the time. This is something other than other aircraft that have been purchased, such as the F-35. We wanted to make a European choice. These aircraft will be delivered in 2020. This is a good example of cooperation with Luxembourg, which acquires the eighth aircraft. They're gonna replace the C-130s, we just said. The C-130s will be sold. Can't they also be put into operation through military partnerships in other countries, such as African countries? As regards the location of these A400Ms, the decision was taken to locate them in Melsbroek. This will involve the construction of new hangars. Another possibility that had been considered was to locate them in Beauvechain, where hangars can accommodate them and where the equipment that is intended to be sent in operation is located. In terms of environment, sustainability, this prevented a return trip from Melsbroek to Beauvechain. Minister, what is the situation? Will the hangars be built in Melsbroek? How much will this construction cost? Under what procedure? The military grounds in Melsbroek are also coveted by the Brussels-National airport. The only possibility for the Brussels-National airport to expand further is to take control of military land. I am not talking about nuisances over Brussels, it will be for other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the initial training of administrative technical staff for A400M was carried out between November 2017 and September 2019. The retraining of ground technical personnel to A400M has started since September 2019. The final students will begin their training in mid 2022. Three pilots have already been formed and two pilots are in the middle of their training cycle. Between 2020 and 2022 additional 10 to 12 pilots will be retrained every year. The first months after the start of the delivery of the A400M devices, work will be done on qualifying the crews and building up the necessary experience for effective deployment. The first operational deployment for logistics transport will be planned from the end of 2020. From mid 2024 plant Defense fully operational capability to achieve. The contract with Democo for the construction of a maintenance hangar was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019. The environmental permit is being developed and construction is expected to begin in Melsbroek in early 2020. According to the current schedule, the new hangar will be available in the first half of 2021, about a year after the first plane is delivered. Temporary solutions at the Melsbroek site as well as the rental of hangars at the Zaventem civil airport are envisaged to cover the period of unavailability of new infrastructure in 2020-2021. The contract for the construction of this hangar was awarded on the basis of a negotiated procedure with publicity in the form of a DBFM concept (Design, Build, Finance, Maintain). The total cost of this project is EUR 134 million over 30 years. The Luxembourg aircraft and staff will be integrated into the organizational structure of the 15th wing, which will operate for the benefit of both nations from Melsbroek airport. However, there is no question of creating a foreign air force on Belgian territory. Luxembourg will provide staff integrated into our organisation. Belgium will also be responsible for the implementation and logistical support of the Luxembourg aircraft, with the costs borne by our Luxembourg partner. The plan for withdrawing the C-130 fleet is aligned with the current delivery schedule of the A-400Ms. The C-130 devices shall be withdrawn from circulation at the time of their scheduled major maintenance or as soon as the retraining requirements of the technical staff no longer permit both types of aircraft to operate together. This will normally be the case by 1 January 2022. Two devices have already been withdrawn from circulation, in particular in December 2017 and December 2018, and have been valorised as spare parts within Defence. The remaining structural components are scraped or used as didactic equipment. The remaining nine are part of an ongoing sales contract, whereby the contractor is free to use the aircraft or to valorize it as spare parts. Mr Flahaut, we will pursue this proposed market for the sale of the remaining nine devices, looking at whether partnerships are possible. Defence is always open to partnerships, provided that revenues are compatible with the proposed market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The cooperation with Luxembourg is good, I believe. We must make this kind of international cooperation possible in this and other disciplines. As far as Melsbroek is concerned, that choice has already been made, and I share your position rather than Mr Flahaut's position. If I understand correctly, the various A400M devices are fully operational from 2024. Hopefully the remaining C130 devices will sing it out for so long. Those devices are old and I don't know if their lifespan is that long.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u38	Minister, that we disagree is not a scoop. But decisions have been made. In asking the question, I wanted to hear this confirmation and point out that this missed an opportunity to achieve savings and more efficient work. I was humorously saying that Melsbroek's planes would have to be taken off to land at Beauvechain, load them, and get them back on board. Indeed, you are not going to move all the equipment, which is in Beauvechain and which is usually used for shipments on mission, and put it in trucks to transport it to Melsbroek, in trucks perhaps bought. I just wanted to point it out. But the government, which I don't know how to qualify, made decisions at the time. That's a little too bad. My point has nothing to do with a Community dimension. I speak out of pure pragmatism. There was a military airport that could accommodate them. We preferred to continue to share the land rather than sell it to Brussels Airport to allow its expansion. It's another pragmatism that seems to have prevailed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u39	The next item is Mr Francken's question on the mission in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u40	Mr President, this question is about Afghanistan, but I also have questions about Syria. Is another meeting of the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u41	Yeah, next week at 9:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u42	After all, I heard Mr Depraetere on the radio following the incident in the Netherlands about the number of civilian casualties. This is, of course, very interesting news in itself, and I understand that further questions will be asked behind closed doors in that committee, without the presence of the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u43	I give the floor to the chairman of the committee responsible for the follow-up of the foreign missions, Mrs Ponthier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u44	Mr President, the committee meeting was indeed scheduled for Wednesday 13 November at 9 a.m., but I have heard that the Minister himself cannot be present at that time. We can also meet on another day. We may be able to record that now, since the Minister is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u45	I would like to be flexible and discuss the arrangements for the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u46	I usually have to go to Washington for the coalition around Syria and Iraq. There was a question to organise a meeting, so it's impossible for me to come to the committee. It is possible, however, that this has already happened in the past, and that my cabinet and representatives of the Defence Department will have a presentation on all operations by 2020 and will be able to answer any questions that may arise. Of course, my presence always brings added value, but I think it is possible to hold such a committee meeting without my presence. I may be able to give more details about Syria and Iraq after the Washington meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u47	Can we then agree that next week a meeting of the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions will take place without the Minister and that a new meeting will be scheduled in the near future, where the Minister can make a debriefing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u48	That's good for me. I think there will be some questions about what happened in the Netherlands about civilian casualties. It was an excellent interview with Mr Depraetere yesterday, however, that we received information on this matter. The previous Defence Ministers, Mr Vandeput and Mr Loones, and the current Defence Minister, Mr Reynders, have always provided information on this. However, it does not seem illogical to me that once again there are questions on this particular issue. It would be interesting if we could have the debate on this subject, in all objectivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u49	Now that you have announced it here, the Defence Staff can also prepare to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u50	Sure. There is certainly a whole discussion on the subject in the Netherlands, which I follow closely, because it is worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u51	Minister, the 2019 Operation Plan provided for Belgium to send a contingent of 135 men to Afghanistan from September. The shipment would consist of scouts, instructors as well as a detachment Special Forces. However, we are told that you have cancelled the mission, because the Americans would be close to a peace agreement with the Taliban and that, consequently, a reduction of all NATO soldiers in the region is considered desirable. I have a number of questions for you, Minister, because the peace agreement with the Taliban has not really come. What's the matter with the mission in Afghanistan now? Can you confirm the cancellation? Was the decision made by the government? When? What exactly is the plan with Afghanistan? Who's still in there? A detachment Multi-Sensor of about fifty men will be active until the end of this year. Is their mission being extended or not? I would like to have some more information about our assignment in Afghanistan, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u52	Mr Francken, at the end of 2018, Defense considered extending its efforts in Afghanistan further in 2019 with a detachment based on the Special Operations Regiment, complemented by supporting elements. This detachment would have been operational from September 2019, for a period of one year. The aim was to further support the Afghan Armed Forces in their development and to assist them in their efforts. For this approximately 135 military detachment the task package and the exact composition still had to be discussed with the future partners. However, this consultation and the fact-finding mission on the spot showed, among other things, that the security conditions on the spot had deteriorated and that the proposed mission was no longer appropriate. It was therefore cancelled a few months ago on the proposal of the Defence Staff. Unless new elements or new questions are asked because of the alliance, that will not change. Apart from sending the fact-finding mission on the spot, no costs were incurred for this. The proposal to deploy Belgian staff operationally in 2020 has not yet been approved by the Council of Ministers. As a result, a change of commitment cannot be discussed before 2020. A bilateral campaign plan was drawn up for cooperation with Niger. The main objective is to support the creation of Nigerese special units. In particular, elements of the Special Operations Regiment are used for this purpose. This was carried out in line with the 2019 operations file and the plan is that this will continue in 2020. There are no additional costs for specifically shifting the focus from Afghanistan to Niger. The events of recent days do not affect the mission of our military in Afghanistan for the time being. I will give more details on the operational deployment in 2020 in the next Foreign Operations Commission next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u53	Will the 2020 deployment plan be on the Council of Ministers this week?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u54	That will come to this committee first. I'll ask that a presentation be made for you, and then I'll go to the Council of Ministers. I'm trying to make progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u55	I very much appreciate your respect for Parliament, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u56	I'd rather have a real majority, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u57	It's not me. We've always worked well together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u58	Mr President, these questions have, of course, been overtaken by current events. First of all, I had a question about the security of the camp Al-Hol. I understood there was a possibility there. As a result of recent developments, I think it is less important that we should be given a Western mandate to guard that camp. I do not believe that this is appropriate at the moment, so I do not know whether I should ask that question anymore. Secondly, I had a question about repatriation from Syria. I would like to make that quite clear. I've been a little annoyed by the way in which the repatriation operation of those six orphans, or half orphans or I don't know, had to go. We do not all have the same opinion on this. It seemed more like a stunt to me, and I didn't think it wise that the operation was in the press while she was still working. I've always learned to be careful with ongoing operations. It was on a Belgian Defense aircraft and it costs a lot of money. In the beginning it was not clear who would be repatriated. The communication was unclear. Minister De Croo said one and you said something else. I didn't follow very well, and that's caused some annoyance to me. Anyway, those people are here now. I hope that they are in good hands and that they are well cared for. I understand some of the kids were in bad shape, physically, medically. I hope it's gonna be okay, let's make that very clear. My specific question is: have any further repatriation orders been given to the Defence Staff? Are there any other plans? Is there anything else running? Everyone is very concerned about what I now have to do with the IS fighters, with the women, with the children. That is a difficult issue. The Security Council has already dealt with this on a number of occasions if I am well informed. Two weeks ago, there was a Security Council meeting on this particular issue. My question is: what is the role of Defense? What is your position as Secretary of Defense on this difficult issue? What will the Belgian Government do when it comes to actively repatriating children, mothers, IS terrorists? I hope the warriors aren't actively repatriated. I don't know what to believe anymore. The issue is very topical at the moment. This afternoon there is a topical debate in the Foreign Affairs Committee on this matter. You'll certainly be caught. In short, what is your position as Minister of Defence on the repatriation of mothers or warriors from Syria? Then I have one final question about Operation Valiant Phoenix, but it's out of date, so I'm withdrawing that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I will help Mr Francken and the topicality of the matter...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u60	... As Mr Franken has just said, this issue is being dealt with in another committee; there are hearings in progress. If we ask the same questions in each of the committees, we're not going to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u61	Mr Flahaut, for the record, I tabled that question a long time ago. I have the right to ask questions or not. I'm not the master of the committee's agenda. Last time I was present, my question could not be dealt with, because there was no time left. That's not a reproach at all. It is logical that the Minister has other agreements as well. My question was postponed. I withdraw one of the three questions and I wish to ask the other. As a Member of Parliament, that is my prerogative. You have been President of Parliament for many years and should therefore know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u62	The questions were asked. I suggest that the Minister responds with all his expertise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u63	Mr President, Mr Francken has just given an introduction to the questions on civilian casualties in Iraq. In the Netherlands there has been a fuss about the fact that, contrary to what has always been claimed, civilian casualties were carried out four years ago by their F-16s, in cooperation with our F-16s. In such circumstances this can indeed happen and we are very concerned about it and we want to monitor it properly. The fact that people in the Netherlands say that there were casualties, more than 70 even, gives us some cause for concern. Moreover, some NGOs contradict what has always been said here, namely that our army would not have caused civilian casualties. Minister, does the government, first of all, still support her claim that our actions have not caused any civilian victims? Secondly, why do we excel in a lack of transparency? Countries such as the United States and Great Britain even make the flight data public, taking into account, of course, the necessary protection for the pilots. Can Belgium not follow this example? Can we make that information public or at least work with a stepped-up system, so that control is built in to avoid just ex post discussions? Today there is a debate on whether or not victims have been killed. More transparency could avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u64	Mr Verduyckt, during the deployment of the Belgian F-16s over Iraq, the subject was already given ample attention in 2017 and Parliament gained insight into all transparency in the matter. In the meantime, no new elements have emerged. There has therefore been no consultation. The Belgian Defence has always done everything in its power to avoid civilian casualties. The rules of engagement were respected at all times. The parquet confirmed that in formal terms. There is therefore no question of checking the flight data for the past few years. This has been done in committee, responsible for operations, in all transparency with Parliament. That didn't happen in a public meeting. Defense has not deployed military forces in Syria, nor has it deployed a field hospital. There are also no ongoing analyses to make a contribution from Belgian soldiers to the security of the camp Al-Hol. There are no plans to repatriate children at this time. Defence was involved in the screening of the repatriated children by the OCAD according to normal procedures. I'll give you the cost of Defense for the deployment of an airplane and the escort of the repatriations by the military. The cost of accompaniment of military personnel is €4,200. The cost for the military aircraft is 40,720 euros. The total cost for Defence amounts to €44,920. Two military pilots, two stewards and a military officer were deployed during the repatriation. At no time have these military personnel run an abnormal or exceptional security risk. The operation Valiant Phoenix was terminated at the end of 2018. At the height about seventy Belgian soldiers were involved. At present, there is no demand for the Belgian Defence Department to restart the mission. The Belgian commitment was limited to the Iraqi territory. Because that operation is no longer active, the question is to extend the operational stage to Syrian Kurdistan without subject matter. We are prepared to bring all Belgian children back to Belgium. I said the same thing to the United States. I have asked our Department of Foreign Affairs to contact the American Ambassador to find out what proposals have been made. I also said this in a telephone conversation with my colleague from the United States and the coalition partners. I will repeat that in Washington next week in a meeting with the coalition. I am prepared to cooperate with the United States, but so far I have not seen any concrete proposal. Furthermore, we continue to keep in touch with the Kurds to see what the possibilities are, but I do not need to remind you that the situation on the ground has changed since the Turkish attack. We are still in contact with the International Red Cross, as during the first operation. We are trying to see what the possible solutions are for a return of the children to Belgium. Otherwise, we will continue to work on our proposal on our operations for 2020, but, as I said, I will be able to give more details on this in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your very clear answer. As far as the repatriation of these children is concerned, we have the problem that, according to European law, mothers are not separable from children and therefore mothers will at least come along. They have the right to come, as one cannot separate a child from his mother. That would be contrary to international human rights. The children are a matter, but there are still radical elements among the mothers. More and more information about them is coming out. They wouldn't all have been stirring the pots all day. They would also have included certain tasks in the military leadership, in the organisation of the IS-state, and in religious discipline. Especially American magazines bring a lot of interesting information about this. So all this is not innocent and that makes it very difficult. For you, the children can come back and you will find out exactly what the Americans are asking. The problem is that the children cannot be separated from the mothers. Moreover, in accordance with Article 10 of the ECHR on family unity, fathers could also return. That is a security risk that our group is not prepared to take. This is very regrettable for the children concerned; we are approaching the issue in a different way. It is a difficult debate anyway, because what is being done with these children? Of course, they're Belgians. For me, we could have withdrawn Belgian nationality, but that did not happen because of circumstances. In many other countries there is a different approach. In Denmark Danish nationality is withdrawn and also in the Netherlands there is a system to take away nationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u66	It takes a law to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u67	Yes, but you may find a majority for that. After all, Parliament can work. If extra money is reserved for care, there may also be a majority to allow the withdrawal of the nationality of a number of jihadis. Many of these children do not yet have a Belgian nationality. That's the problem. There's no consular assistance. If they were born there, I don't think they have a Belgian nationality yet. After all, they are not registered. Some women have come back to give birth here and if the children are born here, then of course it is another matter. There are also children who have traveled with them. However, most of them were born there. It is about those little children that everyone says can't leave them to their fate. These are often children, of whom we do not know for 100% whether they are Belgian. DNA tests can prove that, but it's a very difficult issue. We really fear security risks and ask you to look at other options. That debate will certainly continue in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, I cannot assess what happened here behind closed doors in 2017, but we do think explanations are important, for the sake of clarity. Especially now that there is the intention to carry out such operations by 2020, I would like to give the message that we in the committee in charge of monitoring foreign missions want absolute transparency. We need to be able to check whether or not our concerns are justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u69	Mr Verduyckt, I was there at the time and we were given that explanation effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u70	Mr Minister, my question also dates from a while ago. It goes back to a resolution adopted in Parliament in July 2018. The resolution calls on the government to work in international fora to ban killer robots. What has happened to Parliament's question to the government since then? At the end of August 2019, The Group of Governmental Experts of the Convention on conventional weapons met again and agreed on a text. Unfortunately, the text is particularly weak, partly due to Russian resistance. The Russian representative then stated that there is no consensus on the point that autonomy is a key feature of autonomous weapons. In addition to that meeting, there was another international discussion, in particular a consultation between NATO Defence Ministers at the end of June 2019. My questions are as follows. Firstly, can you explain what the conclusions of the NATO meeting were and, above all, what position our country took at that meeting? What are the priorities and red lines for our country regarding autonomous weapons systems in a NATO context? Secondly, is there a NATO policy document on fully autonomous weapons? If so, what document is it about? Will it be discussed at the NATO summit or was it discussed at the NATO summit? Thirdly, do you agree that the Convention's consensus text on conventional weapons lacks ambition and needs to be strengthened? Fourthly, should, contrary to what Russia claims, a normative framework for killer robots be developed? What opportunities do we have for our country to take steps in this respect? Finally, given the Russian intention to stand on the brakes within the Convention on conventional weapons, how relevant do you still consider it to be to be able to take concrete regulatory measures on that forum in the coming years? Are there perhaps other fora, such as the United Nations, to come up with concrete policy options?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u71	Mr President, Minister, my group would like to know what happened to this parliamentary resolution adopted under the previous parliamentary term to prohibit the use by Belgian Defence of killer robots and armed drones. As my colleague has said, a number of international meetings have taken place on this subject, including foreign ministers last September. The French, Germans and dozens of other countries then approved a declaration to the United Nations. However, I was able to read in the press that 29 countries have explicitly called for a ban on killer robots but not Belgium, which seems to me to be in contradiction with the resolution adopted by this Parliament. Minister, how do you explain that Belgium appears in international forums and at the UN as a bad student in this field? Will concrete measures be taken to include Belgium in a resolute ban on "killers robots"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u72	Minister, a resolution on killer robots was adopted during the previous legislature, as my fellow Members pointed out. Our country thus made the decision not to work with it. In the resolution we asked our government to work for an international ban on this. Meanwhile, a number of initiatives were taken. What is the state of play internationally on this issue? Is there any progress in the search for an international ban? Has Belgium taken initiatives here, as stated in the resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, NATO defence ministers discussed the issue of emerging and disrupting technologies at the end of June 2019. However, the use of lethargy autonomous weapons systems (LAWS) was only one of the many items on the agenda. NATO is of course aware that some of these new technologies can lead to ethical and legal questions, which require answers regarding their use. NATO aims to ensure that the use of these technologies respects our values and our ethical standard. NATO has not yet drawn up policy documents on the use of fully autonomous weapons. Belgium's position is that weapons systems that can kill entirely independently are not acceptable. That's very clear, Mr. Bayet. Our initial objective is to achieve, at the international level, a broadly sustained political commitment, which underscores this principle. Belgium therefore takes an active part in international discussions and has already made several proposals, including via an opposition paper submitted jointly with Luxembourg and Ireland. This note clearly states our basic opposition to the LAWS. Belgium opposes the use of weapons systems capable of killing completely autonomously. International humanitarian law and human rights are fully applicable to the use of all weapons systems, and Belgium cannot therefore use weapons systems that do not conform to these principles. Totally autonomous lethal weapons systems would run counter to international humanitarian law and our ethical principles. Moreover, through the implementation of Article 36 of the First Additional Protocol to the Geneva Conventions, Belgium already has the necessary safeguards to prevent such systems from being introduced at the national level. Belgium is very active in the UN expert group on deadly autonomous weapons systems and continues to work unabatedly to create a broad international base of support around the principles just mentioned regarding the regulation of deadly autonomous weapons systems. However, as you know, there is a certain reluctance on the part of some countries, but even though the outcome of the latest round of negotiations in Geneva was not expected, it is important to continue our diplomatic action within the framework of the Convention on certain conventional weapons. We note, after all, that more and more countries are beginning to change their attitude to this problem. Therefore, Belgium will continue to play its leading role in the various working groups. We will have the same position in the various fora, including the UN and NATO. We are therefore trying to reach an international agreement on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like to thank colleagues for the attention they pay to the implementation of my resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u75	Mr President, I would just like to explain that the resolution adopted on your initiative was not sufficiently far-reaching. We had put a much better resolution text to the vote, but the majority at that time did not want to go along with it. However, our resolution would have been better for our country's position, including in international fora. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are talking about a possible reversal, which I hope you are right and which is continuing. However, the Russian position is opposed to this, which was problematic last summer. The line that NATO is pursuing is that autonomous weapons must respect our values and ethical standards. That is, of course, rather paradoxical, as it is about killer robots who can select targets and fire weapons without human input. It is therefore not obvious to bring both of these into line. Our country is opposed to such weapons, but we must of course work for an international ban, and for this reason I would ask you to put sufficient diplomatic weight on them. Our country also has a strong tradition in this area. For example, we have taken a leading role in cluster weapons and anti-personnel mines. I would ask you and your colleagues to ensure that there are no killer robots in all possible ways. In the parliamentary debate that we held during the discussions of the resolution, we have given sufficient arguments for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was not concerned about the Belgian army's willingness to comply with this important resolution. Rather, the problem arises on the international stage where Belgium's voice is perhaps a little bit shyer. But there's a momentum. We are now a member of the Security Council. You are both Minister of Defence and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please be aware that we give you our full support to ensure the after-sales service of Parliament's resolution on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u77	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The position of our country is very clear. We also leave no doubt about this in international fora. If I may believe your words, we shall also take up the role set out in the resolution. I'd like to bring it to your attention here. It's a theme I like to keep following.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u78	Minister, this question dates from a few weeks ago and I will update it. The government decided some time ago to replace the white fleet, but in the meantime we heard that that decision would be revoked. There is therefore a lack of clarity about this. The government had initially decided to hire luxury appliances from Dassault to guarantee the future of the white fleet. Your predecessor's strategic vision for the Defense Department stated that the white fleet would be studied. This study had to determine the military operational needs of Defence for this type of aircraft and consider the possible options. The study would also examine the possible distribution of costs with other public administrations. I have a few questions about this. Mr Minister, can you give the study referred to in the strategic vision to the members of this committee? Could you give some explanation, if necessary? The appliances that would initially be rented are the Rolls Royces from the range of Dassault. Has cheaper versions been considered or will they be now, now that there is no clear decision? What is the status of the file? Within what strategy for the future of Defense does the decision to replace the white fleet fit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u79	Minister, I will not go back to the details, as I fully agree with my colleague. I would therefore like to know whether you can take stock of this replacement procedure within the military white fleet via a private provider – both in human, budgetary, logistical and calendar terms. On the other hand, what specific tasks does this market have to respond to? And what is the usage pattern? Finally, is the information in the press that the federal government has brutally terminated a private jet lease? If so, what are the reasons for such cancellation and its legal and financial consequences? I suppose a public procurement contract had indeed been launched. Therefore, breaking it obviously causes some problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u80	Mr President, within the framework of the strategic vision, a study was carried out that examined the military operational needs of Defence for commercial aircraft and the possible options for its possible implementation. The study, which was finalised in mid-2017, resulted in a need for a transport fleet for the transport of mainly military personnel that can be filled in by the private market. The study is at your disposal. There are 80% of the flights that are carried out for the benefit of military clients, particularly for survey teams, in preparation for a mission; contact teams, in support of ongoing missions; detachments of security officers; close protection teams for reconnaissance during deployment or redeployment, taking into account the different theatres of operations and the areas of exercise where our forces are deployed. These are missions with specific requirements, such as discretion, speed of execution, a difficult destination impossible to reach by civilian means, as well as the transport of arms. Just over 400 missions are carried out per year, of which almost half of the flight hours are spent on flights outside Europe. Non-military flights are carried out for our European partners and NATO, as well as for Heads of State. As regards the choice of device type, three firms introduced a compliant offer. The special specifications gave only a minimum weight to the aeroplane type; 60% of the weight was in the price criterion; 32% concerned aspects such as availability, responsiveness and flexibility of the proposed solution. Only 8% of the evaluation covered the actual specifications of the proposed aircraft type, and only 2% was attributed to the cabin's interior and comfort criteria. On the other hand, the number of compliant bids ensures that competition has been successful and that the most optimal solution for Defence has been chosen. Over the duration of the contract, the leasing solution will generate a total savings of around €44 million compared to the continued maintenance and operation of the current fleet under its own management. Moreover, this solution responds to the lack of available technical staff. The allegations in the press are incorrect. The Defence forwarded the reasoned award decision to the firms involved in this contract. One candidate felt that the decision was too succinct. It was therefore decided to withdraw the decision, to replace it with a more complete motivation and to retransmit it to the firms concerned. However, an action was brought before the Conseil d'État by an unsuccessful firm. The Council of State will consider the matter on 22 November 2019. In the meantime, of course, no contract has been notified, in accordance with the legislation on public procurement in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u81	Minister, you said just now that 80% of military flights are being carried out. With regard to this other 20%, the study would also comment on the distribution of costs, possibly with other departments. I haven't heard whether this is happening in the meantime: is that 20% still charged to the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u82	No, it is the responsibility of the users, including NATO and the European Union. For example, as far as the members of the government are concerned, payments are also made. I know that because I have two functions, Foreign Affairs and Defense. Sometimes I have to pay with the State Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u83	That is important, especially in view of the budgetary situation of our army today. In any case, my group is of the opinion that the management of the white fleet is not a core task of our Defence and that there may be other options to carry out these tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u84	Thank you for your answer, Minister. We will therefore await the opinion of the Council of State on 22 November. I hope we have it, because it may last. I don't know what you're gonna do in the meantime. If this lasts and you have not issued any contracts, are you going to restart a market? We will still have to deal with the movements of our military. In any case, we can learn a lesson. The future specifications will have to be reworked to best match what is expected. As far as the economy of 44 million is concerned, I have not yet read the study and I am pleased that you will transmit it to us so that we can verify it. I guess we'll talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u85	Minister, a letter from General Thys, at the time the head of the Belgian army, to the troops of the army recently showed that a shortage of personnel would jeopardise the timely payment of the wages of our soldiers. These would mainly include premiums and allowances, such as additional allowances for shipments abroad or exercises and maneuvers in which the military participate. It would also cover expenses incurred as part of the performance of the function. I don't have to tell you that there was some reaction in the media. There was also talk of an organizational and existential crisis. I have the following questions. Do you recognise the issue on which we are dealing? Can you give me any explanation? How many outstanding files are we talking about in concrete terms? What is the total amount of outstanding payments? Can you describe the evolution over the past five years? What is the current state of affairs? What measures can be taken to deal in the short term with the shortage of staff in the service responsible for payment of wages, so that the delays mentioned are short-term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u86	Mr Minister, a month and a half ago, General Thys said that these problems arose. General Thys is now the head of the new transition team. So he's become the crisis manager of our army. The cases that came up, they prove there's trouble. This is not just a shortage of staff; there is a shortage of qualified staff in particular. I want to believe that, because I can imagine that the payout of wages requires certain qualifications. Minister, do you recognize the problem? Is the information we were given on that correct? Have the problems been solved in the meantime? How will we avoid it coming to that? Is it not possible in such situations to employ other qualified government personnel to assist the army, because it is not possible for our soldiers to have to wait for their money?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly outline the letter that was quoted in a number of press articles. A commander, such as the commander of the Land Component, shall address his personnel to reflect his intentions for the upcoming command period, identifying the challenges for the organisation clearly and openly. In doing so, he wanted to highlight one of the major challenges, if not the greatest one, especially the staff. Staff bets shall be paid on a monthly basis in good time. Fees for consignments shall be paid weekly. Those fees shall initially be processed within the units of the personnel concerned, after which they shall be passed on to the central services for payment. In some cases there is a shortage of staff in the units for a limited period, which may lead to late payments. There are therefore no large arrears in the payments. Once the unit has been processed, the payment is made within a period of about 10 days. Work is being carried out on a continuous basis to reduce processing times. During 2020, the HRM@Defence information system will be rolled out, which will automatically calculate a large part of the pecuniary rights. The intervention of different services is kept to a minimum, with the result that duties are processed more quickly. Given the specific pecuniary status of the military, the recruitment of personnel from other public services does not provide a solution in the short or medium term. I can assure you that my department will always do what is necessary to pay the staff correctly and in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You are, of course, telling a slightly different story here than we could hear from the media. We could, of course, welcome the fact that the situation is not as dramatic as it was proposed. I didn't get any information on how many outstanding files it was concrete. Can you repeat the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u89	Mrs Ponthier, (...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u90	Mr President, this could perhaps be included in the report. The automation you cite will hopefully bring solace in the future. We have no choice but to put our hopes on that at the moment. We're looking forward to it. You have indicated that she will be there by 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that the problem has largely been solved, but I think this is a symptom of what we all know, in particular that we have a major problem with our army staff. It has been said on several occasions, including by General Thys, that this is one of the challenges for which we will have to find a solution in the coming years. It is not obvious to find people who want to work in our army. You say that other qualified government personnel are not simply employed, or that this is not possible for some reason. I don't understand exactly what the problem is. Could you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u92	These are specific procedures and algorithms, mechanisms and computer systems. It's gonna take a while to train someone. However, we must also note that other public services also have deficits. Filling a well with another well is not a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u93	Thank you, General, for this subtle addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u94	Mr President, this question dates back to mid-September. On Thursday 19 September 2019 a Belgian F-16 crashed in France during an exercise. There would have been a fatality victim during the crash, but that turned out to be incorrect. This would be the result of a technical problem, but after that we could hear that it was an engine problem. Firstly, can you explain more about the circumstances in which the accident occurred and its consequences? Secondly, are the precise reasons for the accident already known? If so, which ones are these? Thirdly, if measures can be taken to prevent the cause, what are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u95	Minister, my questions are more or less similar. Firstly, what are the conclusions on the cause of the accident? Secondly, can you provide additional information on the navigation exercise in which the aircraft participated? Was there any risk associated with the maneuvers being carried out? Thirdly, what does the loss of the rarer two-seater for Defense mean? Were any measures taken for the remaining fleet of F-16B's? Will the lack of the aircraft affect the training or training of pilots, or even the operational capability of Defense, in any way? If so, how can this loss be met? Finally, the crash was accompanied by limited material damage to property in Brittany. Are there any preliminary estimates of the costs that this could entail? Does this have budgetary implications for the Defense Department or is it about an insurance matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u96	Mr President, Mr Minister, since the time has passed, I hope that we will be able to obtain more information about the investigation that was carried out following the crash in which the pilots were only slightly injured, which we can only rejoice at. Could you let us know the causes of this accident? Could you also let us know what the cost impact of this accident is?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u97	Mr President, Minister, I think there has already been enough talk of this incident, which is of course regrettable. I think it is important to look at the cause so that similar accidents can be prevented in the future. We are therefore very interested in the results of the investigation. Do they know what was going on? Could this be trouble for our other F-16s? Are the pilots who survived the accident getting psychological aftercare?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u98	Mr President, on 19 September 2019 around 10:33 PM Belgian time, an F-16B of Defense was lost in an accident in the vicinity of Pluvigner in France. In doing so, the two occupants were able to save themselves by using their ejector seat. Afterwards, the device came into contact with the roof of a house before stopping in a nearby field. There were no casualties and there were no specific consequences. The aircraft was on its way from Florennes Air Base to Lann Bihoué's base aéronavale, near Lorient, as part of an instrument flight check. This is a practical test on flying on instruments that each certified DOD pilot is required to perform annually. As this test aims to evaluate some basic skills, the risk is low. As usual in a serious event, psychosocial support was provided to the military and their relatives after this accident. After an accident involving damage to a property of Defense, damage to third parties and/or injuries, a judicial investigation is automatically opened. Since the accident occurred on French territory, both the French judicial authorities and the Belgian federal prosecutor are investigating the cause of the crash. As soon as an aircraft of Defense is involved in a major accident, an Aviation Safety Investigation Board is compiled with specialists from, among others, the Air Safety Directorate ASD (ASD) which in all independence seeks the cause of the accident. This investigation panel depends directly on the Chief of Defense and was activated immediately after notification of the accident. The evening of 19 September the specialists were already on site. Pilots have suspected an engine problem but the investigation into the possible causes of the accident is in full swing and no further clarification can be given on the circumstances or the causes of the accident. Currently, there is no doubt about the airworthiness of other Defence F-16s, but it is too early to assess the actual impact of this aircraft's loss on operations and training as well as on total costs. I have asked that an evaluation be made of the value of the aircraft as such, but it is mainly in terms of operations and training that consequences can arise. The extent of the material damage suffered by third parties is the subject of the ongoing judicial investigation. Claims for damages are dealt with in close cooperation with the French Ministry of Defence under a treaty agreement between France and Belgium. There is currently no overview of the actual scope of the claims. I would add that I was in a meeting with the Chief of Defence, when we followed the information regarding the recovery of the two pilots, which allowed us to be reassured about their state of health. I then had the opportunity to receive them and also to see their determination, as they were determined to resume their flight activity the following week, which I believe was done on Mondays. This is an approach that, after meeting me, was significant for their psychological state, as many asked. On the occasion of this visit, they informed me that this F-16 that crashed near Pluviner was the one in which I was able to make a first flight, a few months ago. I reassured them that I had not touched anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the last addition. That's always interesting to know. I would also like to thank you for the comprehensive state of affairs. We are still waiting for the results or the outcome of the judicial inquiry in this area. Do you have any idea when we can expect that statement? Or is that a vague fact? Oh, yeah, yeah, We hope that we can learn from the incident, especially with a view to the future. We'll wait with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u100	Minister, the last thing you said makes me think. Whether you touched anything will reveal the secret investigation. You will certainly make a public statement on this matter. I am also pleased to hear that the pilots are doing relatively well. I'm also asking questions about timing. We are going to ask questions about this again next month. Or can we hear the results in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions once the investigation has been completed? It is certainly my proposal that a report should be produced. I have a thought, too. You say that at the moment there is no doubt, based on the current elements of the investigation, about the airworthiness of the other aircraft. I wonder what this is based on. I haven't heard why there's no doubt about the airworthiness of the other planes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u101	Mr President, accidents can happen, but I know the care with which the air fleet is regularly monitored. I therefore hear with confidence the elements that have been provided to us. I will remain attentive to the follow-up that will be reserved for this file and look forward to receiving more information on the elements that led to this crash. I am pleased to hear that the pilots are unharmed and have resumed service. Mr President, I would like to put my question to the President-in-Office. 550001287C would like to convert into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u102	That's noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation and for the good news that the pilots have been able to resume their work. I had the same thought as the chairman, which is why it is immediately taken as a result that there is no doubt about the other devices. However, I also wonder why this should be dealt with behind closed doors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u104	That is a question of methodology.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u105	For me, this can also be perfectly explained here in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u106	Minister, as you know, basic and intermediate training for Defence pilots is provided in part with the help of SIAI-Marchetti SF-260 aircraft. Since these devices have been in use since 1969, the question of their replacement naturally arises. In this context, the Strategic Vision for Defence 2016-2030 tends to reduce actual flying hours and instead aims to standardize flight simulator training. A debate on their widespread use for pilot training therefore deserves to be opened. Minister, what will now be the basic training of Defence pilots? How privileged will training via a simulator be compared to actual flying hours? Given their seniority, what about the possible replacement of SIAI-Marchetti SF-260? Has any proceedings been initiated in this regard? If so, what contacts does your department have with the relevant Regions and the FPS Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u107	Mr. Bayet, technical advances allow, to some extent, actual flying hours to be replaced by simulator flying hours. It is thus not only possible to reduce costs, but also to make training more effective. Simulation opportunities have improved considerably in recent years and have been integrated from the beginning of the conceptual development of new aircraft, both for training aircraft and for operational aircraft. Thus, the simulation covers an increasingly large part of the training journeys. Although the Marchetti SF-260 is an older aircraft, it remains an appropriate training aircraft for the basic training of military pilots. However, flight simulation techniques on this aircraft do not meet the latest technical developments. In addition, the technical and logistical support of the industry is becoming increasingly difficult. Hence a limitation on the availability of aircraft in sufficient quantities to ensure the necessary flight hours. Since the spring of this year, a working group has been looking at needs analysis, including modern simulation systems and opportunities for future pilots to train on new aircraft types. The replacement of SF-260 is part of this. For the time being, this analysis is limited to a comparative study and a collection of information. Finally, no contact has been established with the Regions or the SPF Economy. This will obviously come in a second phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u108	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u109	Mr President, Minister, we were twice invited to our barracks this year, first to Evere, then to Marche-en-Famenne, to attend an exercise. When you visit a company, I always advise you to ask to go to the bathroom. In fact, we discover the intimate functioning of the company. That's what I did. The toilets in our barracks are in a lamentable condition. I am frankly ashamed to see this situation. Personally, I believe that if this were to happen in the private sector, an inspection of the hygiene services would have taken place and that the General Regulations for the Protection of Labour (GRPT) would have prohibited the use of these buildings. Minister, I wonder how we can allow the situation to evolve in this way. I would like to obtain from you a precise plan to put the barracks in order and restore them to a proper condition. In Marche-en-Famenne, there was only one toilet. There's no toilet for women. During our visit, the army had installed an additional outdoor toilet for parliamentarians. This is not an acceptable situation. I come to my question about the military in the streets. During the visit to Marche-en-Famenne, we saw soldiers who were training extremely professionally with a French regiment. These inter-force coordinations require a lot of training. Minister, do we still need our military on the streets? OCAM has reduced the level of threat. These young soldiers must return to the barracks to train properly. When will they return?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u110	Minister, when General Thys said a few months ago "we're in deep shit," he hadn't hoped to be literally right two months later. In Arlen, the toilets ran over, I hope that's indeed over, but I'm not going to check it out literally. Unfortunately, that is not an isolated case, because in Marche-en-Famenne, as Mr Vicaire said, there are quarters where 50 soldiers, including a dozen women, have to do with one toilet. In Evere the heating has been broken for a while and despite the coming winter it has still not recovered. In Saffronberg, the electricity is regularly out, the toilets no longer function and, at the time I submitted the oral question, there was no water left on campus. That the lack of water in the kitchen and toilets has consequences, I probably don't have to draw a picture. Minister, do you recognize the problem? Why have these problems not been addressed and resolved? How come most of the problems have become structural in the meantime? It's no longer about a problem with a burst fuse or a clogged drain. Are you prepared to release resources to solve all these problems? When will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u111	Minister, the previous speaker has already listed some of the problems raised in the media. Here again we see another symptom of an army that is having a particularly difficult time. We just talked about the staff, now it's about the barracks. All this has to do with underinvestment. Apparently, in the past legislature, there was too little or even no commitment to the barracks. Each building does have flaws, but what we're now finding is that the images are hallucinating, and they're really left. Is there really no budget for urgent infrastructure adjustments? Can't you intervene here? Are there now plans for an investment programme to tackle the problems? I understand that a solution should have been included in the strategic note in the previous legislature, but that never happened. What's the deal with that? Shall we get a guide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u112	Mr Minister, I agree with the analyses and will confine myself to the questions I have given you in advance. Can you give us an up-to-date overview of the structural defects of the DOD barracks along with an estimate of recovery costs? Are you taking steps to repair the most pressing structural defects, among other things, at the barracks Arlen and Saffron Mountain? If so, when are they planned? If not, why not? What temporary solutions does the Department of Defense have? Furthermore, I would like you to give me a clear picture of General Thys' assignment. In the press, he's called a crisis manager. However, I read that it is mainly about a transition manager, a better term in this case. I would therefore like to speak about it in this way. Minister, perhaps it would be useful if you gave a more concrete picture of General Thys' mission and mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problems with defence infrastructure are the result of the old age of the heritage and the inadequate maintenance and investment budgets of recent decades. The current percentage devoted to the technical maintenance of Defence's real estate assets is estimated at 1% of the estimated value of the assets, while 1.6 to 2% are generally recommended. Funds were made available to deal with the most pressing problems. In order to restore the infrastructure to an acceptable level, a major effort will be needed in the coming years, both in terms of maintenance and investment, for which the funds required will be entered in the budget, as defined in the strategic vision. The state of the sanitary facilities is well known to the competent services. An ongoing health plan in recent years saw an increased effort of EUR 10.3 million in 2018. This effort has continued this year and will continue over the next few years. With regard to the Marche-en-Famenne Staff Building, work is under way and will be completed later this November. The problem of the toilets in Aarlen was due to a clogged drain. It was now unblocked and a thorough cleaning of the sanitary room was carried out. The problem with the water supply in Saffronberg was due to the damage to the water supply. The leaks were closed and the water supply of the buildings has been restored. As stipulated for the mandate of General Thys, the transition manager is not intended to take over the tasks of the infrastructure department. Operation Vigilant Guardian (OVG) is based on a Memorandum of Understanding between Defence and Integrated Police dating back to 2015. A recovery plan is being prepared. Its objective is to provide the Defence with a maximum of 300 military personnel under this OVG, while the current ceiling set by the Council of Ministers is 550 military personnel. I hope that we will have the opportunity to achieve this recovery, mainly by the federal police and two major police areas, of a number of military activities. I would remind you that we are fortunately at a much lower level than we were at the time of the crisis or at the highest time of the crisis in the field of terrorism. I would add, Mr President, that it is not at all inconceivable for General Thys to come to you in the coming months to present his reflection on his role in transition. I do not, of course, make any judgement as to how the press headlines information about one department or another, but this is indeed a request on the necessary transition that has been made to General Thys. I think that General Thys is at the disposal of the Committee on Budgets, perhaps not immediately but certainly over time, to share some details about his mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u114	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would have wanted dates. The interest of a date, you once said when talking about tax reductions, is that even if it is distant, one day it comes. I'd like to know when we begin to respect our military when they are in barracks, and also when our military will return to train in those barracks. Let's set dates, because it forces us to work seriously on them. "In the next few months, in the next few years", it seems to me very vague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you have already solved the most pressing problems, but should such a thing have happened in the private sector, they might have shut the company down immediately, the unions would have been standing on their backs and you would probably have been in prison as manager. The situation has been dragging on for years, as you say. It's not new. You say, with a little cynicism in your voice, that it is the result of the age of the buildings. Yeah, right. It is actually a result of very easy political savings, because the military never complain. They row with the belts they have and work with the means they have. Sadly, it's too understated. Rather, it comes close to inhumanity and a lack of respect. It is time for politics to give our military the respect they deserve and place them in a decent infrastructure. As far as our group is concerned, and as far as my fellow Members are concerned, the time has passed and it is time for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fact that the buildings are old, we can all make them. They haven't gotten old all of a sudden for the past five years. The last legislature focused on the purchase of weapons. That's very clear. That is why I am not very optimistic today, because the weapons must be paid off. You refer to the strategic vision, according to which the next legislative term would be paid off EUR 2.6 billion. According to the Monitoring Committee, it appears that double payment is required and I do not yet take into account any additional costs and operating costs. I wonder how we will pay for all this. We agree that these investments are necessary, but I am concerned about how we should all achieve this in these times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u117	It is true that there has been investment in weapons in the past period, but I would dare to put it more broadly. We have invested in capacity. It's more than just guns. That's a not insignificant nuance. Everyone knows by now that unfortunately we have an outdated infrastructure. I am pleased to hear that the most acute and urgent problems have been solved. That is somewhat reassuring, but I believe that in the coming months and years it will be our job to provide the necessary resources and capabilities for defence. Your proposal, Minister, to invite General Thys here, over time, to exchange views with him, I am happy to accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u118	Minister, the many retirements that will be taking place in the army by 2025 represent a major challenge for your ministry. In fact, military personnel will be amputated by about 10,000 by then. The number of applicants is falling free, which is only part of the problem since the attrition rate of young military personnel is 40%. However, according to Major General Marc Thys, the most important concern would be the attrition rate of older staff, yet at 2%. This percentage creates even more difficulties, as it represents the loss of the most experienced staff, in addition to retirements. In addition, personnel renewal would require between 2,000 and 2,500 new recruits annually, which would not currently be possible at the Defence Training Centres. Minister, what measures are being implemented to attract more young people to a military career? Can you detail the initiatives taken with regional employment actors? What about the consultation with the trade unions? With regard to the rate of attrition of more experienced personnel, is there a plan to prevent these individuals from leaving the Defence in the course of their career? What measures are being taken in this context with regard to the training centres? Finally, with regard to social matters, what about the pension reform intended by the former government? Is the option of exclusive use of fixed-term status maintained for all new soldiers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u119	Mr. Bayet, in order to attract more young people, Defence has launched a significant number of recruitment campaigns since last September. This started with an "employment brand" campaign: it is a general campaign in which Defence is presented as an important and reliable employer. At the same time, the Jobday Defence took place last October. Second, campaigns specifically targeting difficult-to-staff positions will be launched, such as the recruitment of technicians, support staff and volunteers. There is also an advertising campaign for the Open Campus Days of military schools. Defence will also make intensive use of social media such as Facebook and Instagram. All information will also be available on the Defence Mil.be website. In addition, special attention is paid to face-to-face communication through the nine information centres located in the different provinces and through activities organized in military units and cities. Defence will also organize days of initiation and recognition in 2020 to inform young people about different employment opportunities. During these days, the military will talk to the youth about their military life, the tasks to be accomplished and the daily life at the barracks. This will give them a realistic picture of military work. The information centre consultants also provide information sessions to students and students at schools and universities. During 2020, special attention will be paid to the technical positions to be filled and to the fact that Defence offers many job opportunities to women. In addition, there are many initiatives and close contacts with regional employment organisations. In all provinces, there is close cooperation between institutions such as VDAB, Forem, Actiris, PMS Centres, municipal governments, Rotary, development agencies, Job Carrefours, ADEPS, Cité des métiers, schools and universities, and Defence. Together with the information centres, Defence participates in all CIEP and SID-in exhibitions in Belgium. There is no consultation with trade unions on campaigns and contacts with regional employment centres, but their proposals are still welcome. Defence is constantly analysing various projects aimed at increasing the attractiveness of Defence to combat attrition within the military. In this context, the revision of the compensation policy is under consideration. The purpose of this review is to ensure labour market-based remuneration through certain allowances and allowances. Such projects will continue to be studied in the future. Work-life balance has also become more important in recent years in Defence. Thus, in order to facilitate this balance, many achievements have already taken place in the field of distance work (telework, home work or satellite work). Within Defence, many facilities are now available to military and civilian personnel to meet their needs. Such initiatives will be further expanded in the future. In order to limit attrition during basic training, it is organised at regional level for voluntary candidates. In this way, the candidate can take basic training by staying closer to home, allowing a smoother transition to military life. In order also to limit attrition in all training centres, various systems have been put in place, such as training of the instructor to raise awareness of the need to assist new recruits, continuous coaching of instructors, gradual training that should facilitate the transition from civilian to military life, qualitative coaching of candidates by instructors and better mentoring in training centres. With regard to pension reform, this is a political issue that can only be resolved by the next federal government. The option of recruiting military personnel under limited-time status is maintained. Volunteers are recruited exclusively under this statute. A number of NCOs and officers continue to be recruited under the status of career members. We had the opportunity earlier to explain Defence's involvement in thinking about training at the end of humanities, like other security services (police, firefighters, civil protection). The sooner we go to future recruits, the more likely we will be able to attract them to trades in these different areas of activity. I also mentioned greater decentralization. It is already on its way, but I believe that it needs to be strengthened in the employment areas, as you said, in particular but not only in Hainaut. This is an approach that needs to be stepped up to avoid the need for very long shifts, in any case in the first part of the training. Of course, beyond the investments that have been made in defence capacity in recent years and that will be pursued, it will be up to a future government and Parliament to see to what extent defence demands can be met in terms of infrastructure and staff status. This will be one of the debates that will occupy the formation of the next government and the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u120	Minister, thank you for all your answers. We can congratulate the army on all its efforts to raise awareness among young people. Nevertheless, I fear that we will soon be experiencing a problem in the desirable renewal of staff. In any case, I am very pleased with your willingness and I hope that the next government will continue this decentralization effort. For historical reasons, several Flemish and Walloon communes are too far from the barracks. It is therefore difficult for 18-year-olds to be there alone, ignoring how their training will take place. So the sooner we get in touch with the young recruit, the better. Finally, you will suspect that we will come back to discuss the salaries, bonuses and pensions of our members.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u121	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ravyts' 55000796C, Mr De Vriendt's 55000975C and Mr Lacroix' 55001090C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u122	Minister, the F-35 issue deserves close follow-up as it is essential at all levels: strategic, military, budgetary and industrial. I would first like to address the issue of the F-35 helmets. These helmets are supposed to be extremely powerful, sophisticated. They are made, it seems, tailor-made for each pilot. Thanks to the built-in cameras, they allow the driver to have a 360-degree view. We are told that they will therefore be at the cutting edge of technology, but the evolution of their price seemed to me to be challenging. Initially, the price announced by U.S. Defense for these helmets was $400,000 apiece. By the beginning of 2018, the price had increased to $600,000. Today, according to information from the U.S. Department of Defense, its price would still explode at $738,000, or €671,580, according to my information and the price of the euro at the time I asked my question. This is the price of a beautiful villa for a helmet! It is true that this helmet is very sophisticated, but it remains a helmet, knowing, moreover, that a similar helmet project for the F-16 with the same visual capabilities would be at half this price. U.S. law prohibits, as you know, U.S. Defense from selling at a loss. The budget slip on the F-35 helmets could therefore represent an additional cost for Belgium. If we make a simple calculation, the current price minus the previously announced price, multiplied by the number of helmets, leads us to an amount of 10,457,000 euros at the expense of the Belgian budget, just for helmets. Do you confirm this analysis and this evolution in the price of helmets? Will there be an impact on Belgian Defence? My second question concerns the purchase price of the F-35s. On September 12, the US Department of Defense approved the sale of 32 F-35A fighters to Poland for an estimated total of $6.5 billion (€5.9 billion), or nearly $200 million per aircraft. The sale would include all electronic control and communication equipment necessary for the use of these aircraft. The US Defense Minister welcomed this sale by stressing that Poland is a model for defence cooperation, notably by devoting 2% of its GDP to defence spending and buying US products. The contract we signed for the acquisition of 34 F-35A with the same equipment as the Polish F-35 covers an amount of 2.9 billion euros, i.e. nearly 85 million euros per plane. As you can see, the price gap is challenging. The price is almost double the price between our country and Poland. And, like Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark have the same tariffs as Poland, this raises questions about the terms of the contracts we have signed. Either we have benefited from an extraordinary promotion, a broken price, some kind of dumping, and we should understand the reason and even the legality under commercial law. Either we will end up paying the same price as the Poles, but we may not know yet, in the event that some costs would not have been included in the initial amount to be paid in the United States. Minister, how is it that the United States sells twice our price to Poland, which is a key strategic ally in the region on the front line compared to Russian threats and a loyal Atlantic partner of the United States? How is this extraordinary remission granted to Belgium explained? Is there dumping against us or should we expect a saltier bill later in terms of equipment of which we would not yet know?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u123	Mr Minister, my question concerns the stealth capacity of the F-35. Of course, it always takes only a limited time before antistealth is created. We know that, for example, the Chinese and the Russians are already working on this. Now, the German radar manufacturer Hensoldt claims to have followed two F-35 cyclists for 150 kilometers on a radar after the Berlin air show at the end of April this year. The U.S. Air Force claims that the appearance of the F-35 on the radar was related to reflectors specially installed for the air show. However, the German company contradicts this and says that these reflectors have very little to do with that. If the F-35 were actually visible on the radar by now, that would be a pretty big problem. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you tell me a little more about that case? Has the stealth capacity broken or is it still intact? What is the impact on the Belgian purchase if stealth capacity is no longer intact? Should conversations be restarted? Have you or have our Belgian Defense Department contacted Lockheed Martin or the U.S. Defense Department to discuss this? Has stealth capacity been heavily considered in the award of the contract? There has never been a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u124	Colleagues, it is not appropriate to see the F-35 helmet as a mere helmet, but rather as an integral part of the weapons system, which offers the pilot a set of possibilities that go far beyond what is currently known for the F-16. The technology in this helmet involves a higher price. Nevertheless, the unit price of $738,000 seems to us to be wrong. Based on recent information from the U.S. government agency that manages the F-35 Joint Program Office, it appears that the unit price of the helmet for the last batches ordered is below $300,000. With respect to acquisition prices, on September 11, 2019, the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA) issued a notification to the US Congress regarding the possible sale of the F-35 weapons system to Poland. This notification relates not only to the purchase of aircraft (32 F-35A), but also to the purchase of related equipment, spare parts, training or operational and technical support. Such notification is part of an administrative process that the US government agency must follow in order to be able to submit an offer to Poland. Other similar notifications for other countries can also be found on the DSCA website. This is in no way the final price of the contract which will apply between these two countries, but rather an estimate of the maximum price, as has been shown in the Belgian market. The amount mentioned in the notification to the U.S. Congress for Belgium, dated 18 January 2018, amounted to 6.53 billion current dollars. The award of the contract was current EUR 4.9 billion (Council of Ministers decision of 25 October 2018). The process of notifying Congress should therefore be considered as a request for prior agreement addressed to Congress. If one assumes that each country is likely to express different needs, the amounts of the notifications per country could be different. However, for Belgian and Polish notifications, the amounts reported are almost the same: 6.53 billion for Belgium and 6.5 billion for Poland. As far as the Belgian market is concerned, the price offered by the US Government to Belgium has so far not been reviewed and there is currently no evidence to suggest that this price could be increased. The better low observation is a relative concept. Like other aircraft, the F-35 is not invisible in the electromagnetic spectrum. In the world of electronic warfare, where controlling emissions, detection and interference is fundamental, a counter-measure is being developed for each capacity. That's no different for the low observation of the F-35. The detection method that has been in place since the Second World War is based on the full control of the electromagnetic spectrum in very stable and static conditions. Moreover, the F-35 devices involved were carrying out a routine relocation without the use of any electronic countermeasures they would use in an operational shipment. The operational benefits resulting from the low observation characteristics of the F-35 are therefore not affected. In view of the above-mentioned elements, Defence sees no reason to contact the U.S. government. The award of the contract covered three aspects: capacity, finance and essential security interests. In terms of capacity, six operational scenarios were proposed, covering all aspects of a modern air war. Low Observability as such was not literally evaluated, but it is a property that allowed candidates to implement certain scenarios in a specific way, creating a possible operational advantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u125	Thank you for your explanation, Minister. I hear your numbers. Three hundred thousand dollars for a helmet. I will continue to follow this question as I have different information on the price at present. We'll see if this will have an impact on Defence in the weeks and months ahead. With regard to the Polish supply estimates, I will follow this issue closely. You are telling me that it is only at the request of prior agreement, but this does not remove the argument that other countries have paid their F-35s much more than Belgium. I mentioned other countries, including Norway, the Netherlands and Denmark. I will come back, if necessary, with a supplementary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-06-55-commissie-ic046x.u126	Minister, you say that no plane is completely invisible. So far, I can support you, but you cannot deny that the stealth capacity of the F-35 would certainly make a difference if it worked completely. It's also why we count the F-35 to the fifth generation of fighter planes. There is indeed a big difference with other types of devices. It is also one of the reasons why the F-35 is sold so widely. Whether he was visible or invisible on the radar and to which this is due, is a well-known discussion between the German company and the American Defense Department. Better information about this can certainly be useful for our defense. What we read in the press is not always what is made effective in the U.S. Defense Department or at Lockheed Martin. I think it's interesting that the Department of Defense should go into that further.
