ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u1	Minister, since this is the first time that you have been asked to answer questions in the Committee on Mobility, which also has in its powers the federal institutions, including the scientific policy that falls within your competence, I would like to congratulate you on your dual promotion since you are today Minister of Budget, Public Service and Scientific Policy, but also Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u2	Congratulations, Minister, on your appointment as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Science Policy. Belgium has come a long way since it, together with 43 other countries, promised 20 years ago in Washington to help heirs to recover works of art stolen by the Nazi regime. Regarding Jewish looted art and orphan art in our public museums, it was announced in 2014 that an interfederal steering committee would be set up, which would be coordinated by the Federal Science Policy, in consultation with the competent services of the Communities and the federal government, to investigate further the cultural goods of unidentified and unknown origin included in the final report of the Study Committee on Jewish Goods. At the end of 2017, the Interfederal Working Group started to review these works of art in order to publish available and verified provenance data and photos in databases on the websites of the eleven museums concerned, based on the final conclusions of the Study Committee on Jewish Goods. Some museums have been delayed by the translation and verification process. This year the provenance data would be merged into a central database of the Federal Science Policy, with links to the Communities' websites and the museums concerned. Minister Reynders stated in May 2019 that the central database was still under construction. In concrete terms, these are 108 works of art in 11 museums in Belgium, including two federal scientific institutions, in particular the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium and the Royal Museums of Art and History. Minister, when will the long-awaited central database of the Science Policy Administration be fully operational or is it already operational? Do you expect more questions or claims regarding the effectuation of a correct refund policy to reach the 11 museums involved? How will everyone be able to search the database? How will this be communicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u3	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, thank you for your thanks. That's very nice. First, the purpose of the database was to collect all the results of the interfederal working group and the consultation with the following museums for the public: the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Antwerp, the Rubenshuis in Antwerp, the Museum M or the former museum Vander Kelen-Mertens in Leuven, the Stedelijk Museum Wuyts-Van Campen in Lier, the Groeningemuseum in Bruges, the Stedelijk Museum of Fine Arts in Ghent, the Stedelijk Museum Hof van Busleyden in Mechelen, Le Musée des Beaux-Arts in Liège, le Musée des Beaux-Arts in Tournai, the Royal Museums for Fine Arts in Belgium in Brussels, and the Royal Museums for Art and History in Brussels. Delays in implementation have forced the public to postpone this posting until spring 2020. Meanwhile, some individual museums have been online for over a year and a half. I have here the links to the websites of the KMSKB in Brussels, the KMSK in Antwerp and the Museum M in Leuven. Whether bringing the central database online will lead to more claims cannot be estimated at the moment. Secondly, the database works with links to the sites of the various cooperating museums. On the respective sites of the institutions, the available information, photographs of the works, the technical description and known information on the origin of the works of art will be available. On the basis of that information, any visitor to the website may verify the data and provide or obtain additional information. We know that in the last two years only one of the eleven museums has received a request for additional information on origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. The central database has therefore been postponed until spring 2020. We will come back to this. In any case, the federal government has come a long way. We're not in here with the first one. That's too bad, but I'm sure there are reasons for that. I understand that the websites of the various museums are also making progress for the public. In any case, I will continue to follow the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u5	Mr Minister, my question may be about something that is more in the margins of the restitution of predatory art, because that is, in the end, in a historical perspective. In August 2018, a detailed scientific inventory of the Royal Institute of the Arts Patrimony (KIK) commissioned by the former Secretary of State for Science Policy, Ms Sleurs or Mrs Demir, showed that French revolutionary troops robbed 195 works of art in our country at the end of the 18th century, half of which returned quite quickly. According to the KIK, however, 64 works of art remained in France, 6 moved to Germany and 1 copy ended up in Italy after a trade. From 24 works it remains unclear where they are located. At the same time, a legal study was commissioned to determine whether Belgium still has any claim to the works of art. That is, of course, very doubtful. The Senate's information report of 15 June 2018 recommends that "beware of the follow-up given to the investigation of the KIK concerning the works of art that have disappeared from our regions under the French regime. If necessary, a number of measures should be taken and a constructive and reasonable dialogue should be encouraged with the French Government." Mr Minister, since the completion of the study by the KIK, have policy initiatives been taken on the issue? What were the results of the legal study? Is there a structural dialogue with the French authorities on the issue of the origin of the works at issue, which can act as ambassadors for Belgium in France? I'd be happy to admit that. Is there, therefore, a federal policy vision of the art that has been stolen from the Belgian territories? Perhaps I am mistaken, but why is there no cooperation agreement between the federal government and the competent states on art theft and art theft?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u6	Mr Ravyts, since the investigation of the KIK, the administration has carried out a legal study to place the problems of the works acquired during the French Revolution in a historical legal context. The study pointed out that France would not have a legal obligation towards Belgium with regard to the property acquired during the French Revolution. This finding, which nuances certain elements of the Senate's information report, clearly shows us that the issue is far more complex than it seems. It is therefore necessary to examine the subject further. This must be done in close cooperation with the various parties involved, namely the Communities, the federal authorities, France and thus also the Foreign Affairs Committee. As I said, this is a complex issue, which leads to different analyses. As long as there is no clear understanding of the problem, there can be no structural dialogue with the French authorities. At this stage, I advocate continuing the existing dialogue between experts, historians and lawyers during conferences or collaborations. The same applies to the dialogue between our museums and French museums. To date there is no need to draw up a cooperation agreement, because there is already a formalised place for exchanges between the Communities and the federal government, namely the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Culture. That body is the ideal place to exchange and debate ideas on various points, including the subject in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Your answer that the legal study concluded that there is no legal obligation for the French government does not surprise me. I would have expected that, all the more so because at the time those works of art were alienated here, our territory belonged more or less to the Austrian Netherlands. I won't be teaching history, but that's a reality. Of course, Belgium was not yet an independent state. You say that we will carry out further research on the very complex issue for the time being and that experts, historians, lawyers and museums will be able to engage in dialogue because there are different analyses. I understand. I also note that the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Culture is the forum in which matters can be exchanged. I don't know if it gets together a lot. I will continue to follow that story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u8	The following questions relate to the African Museum. They cover quite different themes. So we're going to treat them one by one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u9	Minister, I introduced my question in September, but unfortunately I was unable to ask it. Since then, the file has probably been updated. That's why I'm counting on you to get to know it. So I'm going to put it to you, because the bottom line is still relevant. Since its reopening, the Royal Museum of Central Africa (MRAC) has been "a place of memory about the colonial past" and intends to "position itself as a dynamic platform for exchange and dialogue between cultures and between generations". That institution would make full use of decolonization. However, as various experts and visitors have noticed, it is nothing. This is not really the fault of the museum, as scientists with the ambition to investigate the origin of the collections, as well as the role of the Belgian state - and the museum itself - in the theft of art objects from the Congo, including their transport to Belgium and their sale on the art market during the colonial and post-colonial period. It is above all the Belgian political world that seems unwilling to do so. For example, the government has ensured that the museum, despite the large sums spent on its renovation, receives only a minimum budget to investigate the source of the collections. The history of the Luba mask - emblematic of the museum - is typical, as investigative journalist Michel Bouffioux points out. The colonial police force, led by Belgian officers, stole in 1896 during the looting of the village of Luulu in Upper Lomami. This art theft was commissioned from Belgium by colonial officer Michaux, who amassed a collection of 1,400 Congolese art objects. The violent and criminal origin of the mask has been known by the museum since 2001. It is described in detail in the newspaper of Officer Albert Lapière, whose manuscript was auctioned in Brussels at the end of September for 4,000 euros. However, the director of the museum, Guido Gryseels, indicated that his institution would not have that modest sum in order to acquire this important manuscript for his political decolonization mission. Is it correct, minister, that the museum does not have that amount or is it a political decision? In the first case, what do you intend to do about it? In the second, how can this resistance – in contradiction to its declared mission – be justified in the light of Belgian colonial crimes and the conditions for acquiring the museum's collections? On the other hand, minister, could you tell me what is happening with the manuscript? Since the auction was cancelled, very little information has been received. Could you enlighten us?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u10	Mr President, Mr Boukili, the question is a bit old. We have therefore updated the response so that it corresponds to the current state of affairs. I beg you to excuse the delay in bringing the answers. The Royal Museum of Central Africa already has an important collection that allows it to actively conduct research on various topics such as the study of the provenance of cultural objects in the possession of the museum. The museum always has the opportunity to complete its collections by acquiring new pieces if necessary, within the means available. With regard to Officer Albert Lapière's newspaper, the museum was prepared to try to acquire this work and to mobilise, if necessary, a budget for this purchase as long as the object was to be sold by public auction on October 4, 2019. The museum, through its director, did not decide on the amount, knowing, however, that it could mobilise a budget of 4,000 euros, an important sum in the current budgetary context. In this regard, it should be noted that museums are not always in the most competitive position, since objects are sold through open auctions to private collectors or important foundations. The intention was therefore to acquire the object within a reasonable financial limit. However, it was found that the newspaper in question was withdrawn from the sale and sold privately to a foundation. She indicated that she was ready to lend the newspaper to the museum, which, as a reminder, already has a copy of the newspaper. As you know, the museum is not only a museum but also a scientific institution made up of a multidisciplinary research team. The latter conducts various researches including historical research on the provenance of cultural objects in the possession of the museum. In this context, the museum has several publications on the origin of sometimes controversial collections. It is therefore certainly not possible to speak of bad will. On the contrary! Moreover, thanks to the loan mentioned above, the museum will have every opportunity to further research the origin of the acquisition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u11	Minister, as you know, these kinds of documents are fundamental if we really want to teach our colonial history. The museum would benefit from having this kind of room. This document was removed from sale. I also learned a few days ago that it was acquired by a private foundation. The question is: what is the department putting in place to retrieve these kinds of documents? As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, if we want a museum that can play an educational role and also have a role in the decolonization of the history that our country wants to establish, the acquisition of such documents must be a priority. Are steps possible to acquire such documents? Or is it accepted that this remains in the hands of a private collector, whereas this topic is in the public domain? This concerns our history and in itself goes beyond the framework of the private collector. Minister, I encourage you to make every effort to ensure that these steps are a priority for our country, in our decolonization policy, and that this is not just a communication effect; we must act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u12	Mr. Secretary, I'm here again. Unlike Mr Boukili, I shall put my question a little more generally. I'm not making the process of colonial past here. I'll leave that to other members. However, Minister, it is a fact that in recent years European governments and museums have been increasingly confronted with questions about the origin and return of objects and human remains in European museum collections. Since the publication of an expert report on these issues at the request of French President Macron at the end of 2018, the debate on restitution has accelerated throughout Europe. Also in Belgium, the return of cultural heritage to African countries of origin is no longer taboo, as Minister for Development Cooperation De Croo stated during the reopening of the AfricaMuseum. African objects, human remains and archives in the collections of the MAS, the AfricaMuseum, the Natural History Museum and even the Université Libre de Bruxelles have become the subject of public debate over the past few months and of demands for restitution to countries of origin or to cultural communities of origin. However, many fundamental questions about restitution remain unresolved. Firstly, what exactly are the questions of restitution in Belgium, Congo, Rwanda and Burundi? Have official questions for restitution been formulated yet? Secondly, Minister, what is your position on the restoration of cultural heritage in the institutions concerned? Thirdly, which objects are eligible for restitution? What forms of refund are legally possible? Who can ask a legitimate question for restitution? Which forms of refund are most desirable? After all, there can be variety. It may be a physical return, loan or digital copy when it comes to documents. Think, among other things, of the archives of Moscow on the Second World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u13	Mr Ravyts, my answers to your questions are as follows. Firstly, questions about the origin and restitution of cultural goods currently live very strongly in the international community. Several general and specific questions, in particular about cultural goods from our former colonies, are regularly put in the press and in public fora. Despite this great interest in the subject, virtually no specific formal questions have been asked for the return of cultural objects. A formal question has been asked by New Zealand to repatriate the remains of the Maori in the Royal Museums of Art and History. A question has also been asked about the archives on Congolese mestiazes. Secondly, I attach great importance to this complex dossier. Following the resolution of the Chamber of Representatives of 19 March 2019, I believe that a thorough interdisciplinary study should be carried out into the origin of various cultural objects involved and that the issue should be examined in an international context. The question of refunds should be dealt with in the context of international cooperation and in dialogue with the countries of origin concerned. Thirdly, given the complexity of the matter and because a large part of the research still needs to be done, it is premature to identify the objects or categories of them and their number. However, I can already say that the repatriation of human remains is a first priority. The different forms of return you list may be possible. The origin of each item will have to be investigated and, where appropriate, which items are the most human. Since the collections of federal museums belong to the public domain, I believe that the physical restitution of objects will require a legal framework. In order to ensure the legitimacy of the demand, it seems essential to cooperate with the authorities or a formally appointed organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully agree with your view. You also refer to the March 2019 resolution, which places the issue in an international context with an interdisciplinary investigation. You are also talking about a legal framework. We also note that there are very few concrete questions. I think there's been a media offer around that case for some time now. Just last week, under the leadership of Kif Kif, a public debate took place at the University of Ghent. That is good in itself, but I think that as a government we should keep a cool head and approach this matter very businesslike and serene, even though there are a lot of emotions in the background because of the colonial past.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u15	Minister, the Africa Museum in Tervuren was reopened some time ago after renovations. It has developed an ambitious programme and a much needed restyling of the museum has also been performed and of the way the collection is exhibited. As a result, visitors' figures are above expectations. This year, 360,000 visitors are clocked off. Since the museum is a federal scientific institution, legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters also applies here. The museum is located in Tervuren, in the Flemish Region, making it logical that the staff is Dutch powerful. However, problems appear to arise in the recruitment of contractual staff. For example, we have learned that the security staff or the room staff do not always know Dutch, which causes difficulties in communicating with the public. Minister, what language framework is in the African Museum? Is this being complied with? Why is that, or why not? Secondly, how is the required language skills of staff associated with the museum guaranteed? Is that, for example, contractually committed? Thirdly, how many complaints about lack of language skills have been received by staff since the reopening of the museum? Finally, how are the complaints about the lack of language skills dealt with? How is it ensured that the required language skills are met?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u16	Mrs Gijbels, the theoretical language framework of the museum provides in principle a balance between the French language and the Dutch language framework for levels 1 and 2. For a full framework, this corresponds to 40 people in each language role for these functions. For levels 3 to 5, the theoretical framework of the museum provides an over-representation of Dutch-speaking staff, i.e. 60% of Dutch-speaking people and 40% of French-speaking people. I would remind you that for these jobs, the majority of employees should not be bilingual for the job filled. As regards specifically the bilingual functions, the theoretical language framework of the museum provides 10 bilingual French and 10 bilingual Dutch levels 1 and 2. Since the contractual and statutory staff framework of the museum is not fully completed today, some functions are not fully in line with the theoretical language framework of the museum. This is particularly the case for level 1, where the framework is occupied exclusively by Dutch-speaking workers, while in theory there must be a linguistic balance within these functions. It is also the case for Level 5 functions, where 66% of employees are currently Dutch speaking, while 60% of employees are required by the framework. For level 3, the balance required in the framework, namely 50 % French speakers and 50 % Dutch speakers, is now virtually assured. For Level 4 functions, it also goes in the direction of the planned framework: 58% of the current occupation of the framework consists of Dutch-speaking employees. Only for the functions of level 2 there is a small French-speaking imbalance, as 52% of the framework is filled by French-speaking people, compared with the planned 50%. Secondly, the surveillance of the museum was for the most part outsourced to external firms. In the specifications, the security company is obliged to employ security personnel with basic knowledge of the second language, so that visitors can be contacted at least in Dutch and French. It has been established that the company responsible for monitoring is not always able to meet this requirement. The company was reminded of this. Meanwhile, the AfricaMuseum ensures that the security staff carrying out the access control have sufficient knowledge of the two country languages. Thirdly, between 29 December 2018 and 26 October 2019, 19 complaints were received about the lack of language skills of Dutch; 5 of them were about reception staff, 8 about guards and 6 about ticket control. Fourthly, the letter that the museum wrote to the external security company said: "We will observe the knowledge of the other country language of your agents during duty hours in the coming weeks and we will inform you of the results. This letter is part of Article 14.2.2 of the specifications. We always ask our own staff to contact a colleague who knows the other language well. All complaints will be answered. The KMMA has a procedure for handling complaints."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u17	Mr President, I do believe that the problem lies mainly with the staff of the external firms. This is in line with the complaints we have heard. It is good that this is being followed up and that measures will be taken. We'll follow up on this, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u18	Minister, the next question is your servant's. The initial title, which was not included as such in eMeeting, was: "Question relating to the preservation of works of art, in particular the sculpture of "Virginius and his daughter", in the park of the Royal Museum of Central Africa in Tervuren". At first, my attention was fixed on a sculpture and the more I dug, the more I discovered other situations. So I have expanded the question a little. I have also addressed this question to the Minister of Justice because I know that the Régie des Bâtiments is competent for the restoration of works in an area that belongs to the State. This issue will only be on the agenda at the beginning of January, but I already wanted to hear your views on certain specific points. In addition, I have visual support because I think that a good image is sometimes more explicit than a long speech. Minister, you have before you the work of Elisa Bloch made in 1886 "Virginius and her daughter". In 2012, E-Monument.net listed a dozen works of art from the park of the Royal Museum of Central Africa that were in a state worthy of serious restoration. Since then, I think the situation has worsened. We have a great scientific establishment and a very nice park, but the works are falling apart and threatening to collapse. I think there is a real need for state intervention. With regard to the work in question, this very heavy structure threatens to collapse. Last February, I interviewed the deputy head of the Régie des Bâtiments and the director of the Royal Museum of Central Africa. In one year, nothing has been done and I wonder if, after the winter, Virginius and her daughter will not collapse! It was answered at the time that the Vlaanderen Regio Oost service of the Régie des Bâtiments had launched at the beginning of 2018 an analysis of the file of the base of this sculpture. The Directorate-General for Operational Services also indicated to me that, because of the protection of this monument and the landscape interest of this site, the file should also be submitted for approval to the Flemish service Onroerend Erfgoed. On 20 November, I sent a new letter to the same two recipients because nothing was done. Before asking my questions about "Virginius and his daughter", I propose to look at the following sculptures, if only to make a little tour of the park. This is "Marguerite in the church," all verdy. We also have "Love cutting its bow in Hercules' club". You can see that the base is breaking down. This is a statue whose feet are broken. Minister, these are my questions. At your level, do you have any information about the restoration of this base? What's the status? What about this view of the Flemish Heritage Services? I do not know the situation, but is there a legal basis for restoring the foundation, such as in the case of "Virginius", when works of art are in a state domain? How is this service of the Flemish administration concerned with the urgent repair of this base? Does the Royal Institute of Artistic Heritage (IRPA), which is a federal agency, not have the skills to carry out a renovation of this type of monument? For the paintings I know he has it, but for the sculptures, I don't know. I draw your and Mr. Geens' attention to the fact that winter could be fatal to this work of art. It should not be destroyed. Interest should also be given to the dozen other works present in the park. Unfortunately, we did not show the right PowerPoint.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u19	Mr Delizée, first of all, congratulations on this very didactic presentation of the question. This makes it possible to visualize the situation in practice. As an introduction to my answer, I can tell you that Virginius is a hero of the archaic period of the Roman Republic. Do not, of course, see any cause-and-effect link! Here's the answer I can give to your questions. First of all, I would like to remind you that the property is situated on the soil of the Flemish Region. It is therefore the latter which is competent for the protection of the real estate which is on its territory. This explains the interventions of the Vlaanderen Regio Oost service of the Régie des Bâtiments and the Flemish service Onroerend Erfgoed in this case. For further information on the role and legal basis, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, Mr Koens Geens. With regard to the restoration of the base, we interviewed Mr. Guido Gryseels, director general of the museum, who told us that the Régie des Bâtiments had confirmed to him that the restoration of the base would take place in 2020 in accordance with weather conditions. I therefore hope that the year 2020 will not be overly problematic in terms of weather. Mr Gryseels also informed me that he had sent you a letter on 27 November to clarify the matter. As for your other questions, I am unfortunately not in a position to answer them because they fall within the jurisdiction of Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. In the meantime, we have found the PowerPoint you now have in front of you. There were the old photos and this PowerPoint that shows the general situation and missing parts. I will re-examine the Régie, not only about Virginius, but about all the other works that are there and deserve a rather rapid intervention. Of course, I do not pronounce myself on the archaic period of Roman history. You can think of everything you want from the Roman period; that is not the goal. It is a work of the nineteenth century that is there, which is a beautiful work, in all its dramatic qualities. Questions of competence, opinion take far too much time. The risk is that some works will be permanently deteriorated. Depending on the weather conditions, if the notice only arrives in autumn 2020, there will be an additional winter. I think Virginius and Virginia will have a second death. I can only invite the services to act as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u21	By listening to you, and as it concerns other sculptures that were not included in the original question, I propose to write a letter to Minister Geens to make him aware of this issue, in support of your initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u22	Minister, I'll give you all the information. If you can support yourself, as the competent minister for the African Museum, that can only move things forward. Let's hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u23	Minister, we're just seeing each other in another committee, so maybe you're a little surprised to see me here. However, as mayor of Tervuren, I cannot resist appearing on this committee once in a while to ask a question about the museum. It has been mentioned here a few times that the museum reopened its doors about a year ago. Today we were able to read in the newspaper that it had 350,000 visitors in the opening year. This exceeds all expectations; that is also three times more than before the renovation. In addition, the AfricaMuseum has a scientific task. There's a lot of scientific research going on. A lot of objects are also studied and stored that are not exhibited. Of course enough money and staff are needed both for the exhibition function and for the scientific function. There's a bit of a wringing shoe there. After all, we note that the museum has to do with 20% less staff than it did six years ago. The amount of money also decreased by 400,000 euros compared to 2017. It must therefore be done with less resources, even though tasks are increasing and expenditure is increasing. The director, Mr Guido Gryseels, raised the alarm and asked for help, because the situation is becoming increasingly untenable. It is a bit unfortunate that a lot of time, especially a lot of effort and even more money, has been spent on the successful renovation of the Africa Museum and that this important scientific institution, because the money tap is turned a little tight, is not likely to be able to carry out its tasks properly. Will you answer Mr Gryseels' question of financial aid with money or other means? Can you answer that question? Can the financial contribution for the AfricaMuseum be increased by possibly shifting into certain budgets?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u24	Mr Spooren, my answer is very brief. I am also Minister for the Budget, and I can tell you that in view of the very difficult budgetary situation, on the one hand, and the system of provisional appropriations, on the other hand, which is still applicable, additional financial resources are not possible. Moreover, the budgetary constraints are the same for all budgets of the federal scientific institutions. It is therefore difficult to transfer funds from one institution to another without compromising their operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u25	Mr Gryseels is not much with that at the moment, but I understand your answer. From that point of view, I can only hope that there will soon be a new government, which will then have the free hands to clear the necessary budgets. I will certainly continue to lobby actively for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u26	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will see how things will evolve in the coming months, but a number of visits could be proposed. However, we must also work and ask the various ministers questions. That said, in my view, the museum in Tervueren would certainly deserve our visit. A visit had already been organized under the previous legislature, but the members of our commission have changed. In doing so, if the committee so wishes, we could organise this visit, in which the minister could take part, so that we can be aware of the problems in terms of budget and staff. Indeed, the museum has been the subject of a very beautiful restoration thanks to the investment of the State, but the means made available are not necessarily sufficient to meet the needs of a growing appeal from the public. On the other hand, other visits would be just as interesting. We will have to find a good balance between visits and work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u27	Mr Minister, my question is somewhat in line with that of my colleague Spooren on financial resources. The visit in March 2019 – to which Mrs Wilmès, who had just received the tutelage on the Museum of Central Africa and scientific policy, was present – had been an opportunity to discuss, in particular with the management of the Tervueren Museum, the drastic budget cuts imposed on all Federal Scientific Institutions (FSIs) during the previous legislature. We see the effects of these measures, year after year, on these measures. Finally, the prospect of provisional twelfths in 2019 was somewhat regarded as a "beneficial" to avoid further reductions in resources that would likely have taken place had there not been current affairs. This is the budgetary situation. There is also what can be called abandoned projects, brain drain and people who do not stay, who do not receive their contract or are not engaged. The current level of allocations is no longer sufficient to cover the fixed costs and critical functions of these institutions. This also challenges the cultural heritage, scientific research and international expertise of these institutions. Not to mention burn-out in some staff members. All these elements must of course be taken into account by the minister responsible for scientific policy. Investments have also become impossible, even to replace end-of-life equipment with the strategic reserves of the OSIs. This is due to an extremely rigorous application by the government of the previous legislative term of the ESA 2010 accounting standard. However, this interpretation does not seem to be imposed on other European institutions. In a period of day-to-day business before the elections, Minister Wilmès had explained that the government was in favour of a certain degree of budgetary flexibility for scientific policy, at the request of the ministers responsible and provided that future revenues were guaranteed and that the general balance between the institutions was preserved. This flexibility did not, however, give much perspective. At the time, the minister said she wanted to see what levers could be used to relieve our cultural and scientific institutions and establish a roadmap. It is now a question of determining what financial means can be made available through day-to-day business. We're at the end of the year. Minister, have linear budget cuts coupled with the isolation of federal scientific institutions produced, either in the lead of the previous government or in current affairs in part, positive results? How do you explain that the application of the ESA 2010 standard is much more stringent for our federal museums than it is for other comparable European institutions? Can you tell us about the ad hoc flexibilities referred to by Mrs Wilmès in favour of federal science policy and the demands that the government would not have met for the same department? Finally, what specific measures do you intend to take to relieve FSEs, given the restrictive context of day-to-day affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u28	Mr Delizée, thank you for your questions and will try to be exhaustive. First, linear economies were part of an overall fiscal policy aimed at reducing the government deficit. The public sector as a whole had to contribute to this effort. The results are therefore to be considered in their entirety. Thus, it appears that the public deficit was lower at the end of the legislature than at the beginning. I would also point out that FSEs must take this particular context into account in order to renew themselves and find external funding, in particular through exhibitions and research programmes or by renting their premises to external activities. Many did. I am thinking in particular of the Royal Library and the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. Secondly, I can tell you that Belgium has chosen to apply SEC neutrality to the whole public sector, and therefore also to FSEs, while taking into account the specific measures mentioned below. In a difficult budgetary period, it is normal for everyone to contribute to the effort. It is indeed a question of collective and intergenerational responsibility. In addition, I recall that in 2018 the government decided to relax the conditions of the SEC balance by allowing the FSEs to derogate from this principle for sectors II and III, i.e. revenue and expenditure related to budgetary projects. With this flexibility, margins have been created for scientific institutions, provided, of course, that they are part of a dynamic approach to valuing their know-how and heritage. In view of current affairs, I would also remind you that no new budgetary initiative can be taken. However, over the course of this year, we have ensured the best possible support for FSEs in this particular context, by responding – as far as possible – to various requests related to the issue of SEC balance. In addition, I can tell you that federal scientific institutions carry out a variety of activities, which are linked to cycles requiring a multi-year approach. Aware of these specificities, the previous government had granted structural – and not ad hoc – derogations from the strict application of the SEC balance. Thus, not all research contracts are subject to the obligation of such balance on an annual basis. This derogation, in force since 2015, has been extended to activities financed through sponsorship and sponsorship, as well as commercial contracts. Temporary exposures also benefit from this derogation, plus a mechanism for reinvesting profits in future years. However, the general principle remains as follows: to achieve ESA neutrality on a multiannual basis. In addition to these structural adjustments, one-off authorisations have been granted, allowing the institutions to use their reserves for investments essential for their operation. We have authorized 3 million expenditures for the Royal Museum of Central Africa. We also authorized 2 million expenditures for the renovation of the Museum of Natural Sciences. We authorised EUR 519 000 for the replacement of the planetarium projection system and EUR 157 000 for the relocation of the archives depot in Saint-Hubert. It should also be remembered that the ESF had benefited from a one shot investment of 11 million in 2015. Two projects related to the year Bruegel, the museum of the Dukes of Burgundy at the Royal Library of Belgium and the renovation of the House Bruegel by the Royal Museums, did not obtain the derogation requested. The opinion of the Finance Inspectorate called for budgetary compensation, which was not decided. Finally, the government in day-to-day affairs does not have the necessary levers to undertake structural actions vis-à-vis the ESFs. Specific requests shall be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the principle set out in the budget prudence circular.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u29	Mr Minister, it is not up to this committee to deal with the analysis of the previous government's fiscal policy. I think we will not really agree with the policy or its results. Over the years, federal scientific institutions have complained strongly about savings that are increasingly restricting their human, financial, operational and investment capabilities. It even concerned the simple repair. We remember the period "It rains in such and such a museum". The question now is about the future. An exception has been made for the three federal cultural institutions that have escaped austerity, if we can say so. They were spared. But the ten scientific institutions are not equal by their nature, their activity, their possibilities. Not all of them have the opportunity to have new recipes and sponsors, or to rent premises. When it's linear, it's also blind. The particularity of some institutions is not examined when such very general reasoning is used. Finally, for the next legislature, when there is a government, I hope that we can reinvest in scientific policy, both for our cultural institutions and for our scientific institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u30	Question No 55000706C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u31	Minister, it is the KIK's task to assist in the inventory of the federal art heritage. This is a bit of a special case, since art and culture have been Community powers for a few decades. However, there remains a federal right to guard the art heritage on Brussels territory. It is therefore not only a particularly difficult task to know at all times which piece is true, but also to determine the ownership and legal and financial responsibility for artwork. Mr Minister, first of all, what is the definition for the documents covered by the federal art heritage? In what way is this consulted with the Communities? Secondly, how is the budget for the inventory of the federal art heritage determined? How much of that goes to the KIK? Are the Communities also contributing to this budget? Thirdly, do the Communities call upon the services of the KIK? How do the cooperations between the different Communities and the KIK relate to each other? How does that translate financially? Finally, when can we expect the annual report 2018 from the KIK? Will that be explained in committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u32	Mrs Gijbels, first of all, with federal art patrimony is meant only the art patrimony owned by the federal government. There is no specific consultation with the Communities on this patrimony. However, there is a consultation platform with the Communities, the Regions and other federal departments concerned, with consultations on general issues relating to the protection of the Belgian art heritage. Secondly, the preparation of the administrative inventories of the federal art heritage is not one of the statutory tasks of the KIK, which is to provide a scientific inventory of the Belgian art heritage. The inventories of the various federal scientific institutions are managed by themselves and this is borne by their overall income. No specific resources have been provided for this. Since these are federal collections, there is no financial intervention by the Communities. Thirdly, the KIK carries out missions for the various Communities of the country. The size of this is variable. In addition, contracts are also carried out for the Regions and museums and other public services, which depend either on the Communities or on the Regions. The geographical distribution of the tasks carried out in 2018 was 36 % for Flanders, 11 % for Wallonia and 31 % for the Brussels-Capital Region. In addition, 20% of the orders were executed abroad. In view of, among other things, the often multiannual nature of the assignments, it is not possible for the KIK to make an annual breakdown of revenues by type of customer. The annual report 2018 will be submitted to the management committees of the institutions in December 2019. The reports of the FWI are not presented in a structural manner in committee, but this can of course always be done at the request of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is indeed important that we treat our heritage carefully and preserve it carefully for future generations. A first step seems to me to be that we know what we have, so that we can possibly continue to work on collecting collections from certain masters. My next question is also in line with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u34	Minister, this is a similar question on the same subject. I'll skip the introduction and go straight to my questions. First of all, has the art heritage of the federal government been inventoried yet? We have just talked about this. Where are the bottlenecks? Secondly, where are we on the federal toppiece list, which should be drawn up by the Science Policy PPS? Thirdly, how will the Royal Institute for the Art Heritage (KIK) be involved in the inventory of the art heritage of the federal government? Is that an integral part of his mission or does it receive additional fees for it? You have already answered part of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u35	Mrs Gijbels, first of all, until now there is no comprehensive and consolidated inventory of the artistic heritage of the federal state. At the moment, every FOD, POD and FWI is responsible for the management of the artistic heritage that is or is acquired. This basically means that each federal actor manages the inventory and ideally keeps the most complete and updated inventory. Such management requires a great deal of work from some organisations if the heritage at their disposal is particularly important, diversified and historically undocumented. In this context, the FSIs make great efforts to identify the available collections, in order to ideally obtain an inventory that can be consolidated. Secondly, there is currently no official list of artistic masterpieces available to the federal state. Some initiatives were taken to make progress in this area. In April 2016, the Secretary of State for Science Policy devoted a reflection to the issue, leading to the drafting by the administration of a prospective report on the subject. An additional initiative was initiated in April 2018 by the State Secretary for Science Policy, inviting the KIK to submit a proposal for the development of a list of masterpieces present in the FWIs. In response, the KIK proposed a pilot phase to the Secretary of State, to which it did not act. It should be recalled that drawing up a top-notch list and its protection require a law to define the criteria and principles, which cannot be done in current cases. Thirdly, the counting of all the collections of the State does not belong to the powers of the KIK. That task is the responsibility of every federal actor with an artistic heritage. The orders of the KIK are further in the process. The Royal Decree on the KIK states that these consist of the scientific study and the preservation of the national heritage. More specifically, the purpose of the KIK is to work on inventories to keep track, on photographic and digital media, of the works included in those inventories. The work of the KIK fits in a complementary dynamic with the FWIs, to optimize the inventories and pieces contained in the inventories of the FWIs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u36	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I refer to my previous reply. It is important that we have an overview of everything that is there, of everything that we own and that we are rich in, so that specific collections can be further worked on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u37	Mr Minister, we are now discussing the competence of Science Policy and so we are also talking about the Management Unit of the Mathematical Model of the North Sea. I am West Flemish and of course I am interested in what I am about to quote. On the sandbank The Horse Market is estimated at 35,000 tons of dumped ammunition, mainly from World War I, both conventional and chemical ammunition. To date there is no direct danger to the marine environment or to public health, but there is always a permanent risk of rusting or tearing, with potentially heavy chemical pollution. The monitoring of this site, located below the low-water line, is carried out by the Scientific Service Management Unit of the North Sea Mathematical Model (MMM), which is responsible for monitoring the various legal obligations and implementing decisions for the management of the marine environment. Of course there is a strong Flemish leg to this project. The Department of Maritime Access of the Department of Mobility and Public Works of the Flemish Government now intends to organise a test under the Innovative Public Procurement Programme, subject to the consent of the federal authorities, to demonstrate the innovative way in which this ammunition dump could be disposed of safely and time- and cost-efficiently. A meeting with experts was held at the beginning of October and a market investigation was also organised for the necessary companies with expertise. There should be results of that debate at the end of November or early December. Firstly, what role does the MUMM operational service play in supporting the quoted project? How does this service assess this project? Secondly, according to MUMM, what solution can be found to the problem of Dovo's decommissioning capacity too limited for the disposal of ammunition? DOVO is, of course, a competence of your colleague, but MUMM may have a view on it. Thirdly, currently only the DOD, DOVO, can legally dismantle old ammunition. In your opinion, does a change of law impose itself here? Fourthly, what were the results of this market survey for this project, which required matching supply and demand? How will the costs be shared around the final clean-up? Is this entirely the responsibility of the federal government or does Flanders intervene in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u38	Mr Ravyts, the operational management of the Environment of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences (KBIN) and the scientific department of MUMM, which is responsible for the management, took part in the PIO working group at the invitation of the Department of Mobility and Public Works, in the Horse Market project. In particular, the KBIN has intervened in the definition of the safety rules and the legal bases to be respected in the development of the scientific protocols to be implemented in the context of environmental quality analysis, in identifying potential chemical risks, etc. Within the framework of this Working Group, the KBIN has called for and continues to insist that any envisaged decision and scenario is based on a sound scientific analysis of the risks and impacts on the marine environment and the environment in general. Essentially, there are two main lines of approach for the site: leaving behind, with or without mitigation measures such as enclosures, or mountains with destruction at sea or on land. The choice of approach is largely determined by the current and future state of ammunition and the current and future degree of pollution of the seabed. This also implies a scientifically based assessment of the expected evolution of ammunition in view of the processes occurring in the seabed. The current knowledge of this is currently insufficient to provide a substantiated opinion. Thirdly, the KBIN assumes that thorough and substantiated reasons lie at the basis of this regulation, but it does not fall within its competence or expertise to comment on it. Fourthly, the Flemish government and its appointed consultant are currently processing the results of the market survey. The KBIN is not involved in this. Fifthly, it does not fall within the competence or expertise of the KBIN to make a ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u39	Thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply. There are two main lines for the approach: either leave it and emboss it, or mountains. Both possibilities require a great scientific discourse, because apparently there is not a hundred percent certainty as to what physiological and biological processes the ammunition undergoes. That is why there is still a great deal of concern, especially for the coastal municipality of Knokke-Heist. My colleagues at Flemish level will indeed have to ask the same question in order to get a global picture of who will have to pay if it comes to a cost sharing. We'll follow up on that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u40	Mr President, Minister, the Princess Elisabeth Pool Base has a very long story. You know the agreement of 30 June 2017 on the settlement between the Belgian government and the International Polar Foundation, whereby the Belgian government would become 100% owner of the base in Antarctica. The Pole base would be housed in a new structure, in particular a new international non-profit organisation. The International Polar Foundation received the maintenance and operation for 2017 and the following five years in exchange. An open invitation to tender would then be launched. As a result of this agreement, annual partnership protocols regulate the current cooperation per campaign, as it is called. This is happening in anticipation of the law of July 8, 2018, which empowers the King to establish the aforementioned new international non-profit association for the management of the base. Minister, the Court of Auditors has examined the cooperation between the Pool Secretariat and the International Polar Foundation on the financial and material management of the base in connection with the audit of the 2018 accounts of the Pool Secretariat. For both the 2017-2018 and 2018-2019 campaigns, it appears that the Pool Secretariat still does not have a detailed multi-annual infrastructure and investment plan, that there is no mandatory inventory of the products in stock available to the Pool Secretariat in accordance with the protocol, and that no consolidated report to be produced together with the IPF has been submitted to the international bodies. There are therefore a number of shortcomings under the IPF. Furthermore, the Royal Decrees and Statutes for the establishment of the new Pool Institute are still lacking, which means that the agreement between the Belgian government, the IPF and the new Pool Institute, as well as the management agreement between the Belgian State and the Polish Institute are still not in place one and a half years later. The 2019-2020 campaign will therefore require a new protocol with the IPF. Maybe that's already happened. So the problem continues to drag, apart from the private problems of the man behind the International Polar Foundation, on which there has been a great deal to do in recent years. First of all, Minister, why is the Pole base today, more than a year after the law, still not under the new structure announced in 2017? Secondly, what measures are being taken to remedy the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u41	Mr Ravyts, following the publication on 20 July 2018 in the Belgian Official Journal of the Law of 8 July 2018 authorising the establishment of an international non-profit association for the management of the South Pole Base "Princess Elisabeth" and the abolition of Chapter I of Title V of the Law of 24 July 2008 laying down various provisions, it was up to the State Secretary to establish the international non-profit association called Pool Institute. The Secretary of State had announced its establishment before the end of 2019. It is clear that this project was not completed by the Secretary of State. In the context of the ongoing cases, which severely restricts the means of action and prohibits any new initiative, the urgency was in the preparation of the upcoming 2019-2020 campaign, knowing that the establishment of the Pool Institute appears to be more complex and longer in current cases. I come to your second question. Due to the absence of the above mentioned reason of the new entity to be entrusted with the management of the Pool Base Princess Elisabeth, no multi-annual agreement for the management of the Pool Base can be concluded and therefore the basis for a multi-annual infrastructure and investment plan is lacking. Pending the establishment of the Polar Institute, which will be responsible for the management of the base in the future, an annual agreement will be concluded with the current administrator, the International Polar Foundation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u42	Mr President, we are in a bit of a catch 22 situation here. The Minister gives a clear sneak to the current Flemish Minister and former Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, who did indeed say goodbye to the federal government in December 2018 and left this dossier unfinished or simmered. I'll leave it to you to use the correct title. We are aware that no multi-annual agreement can therefore be concluded. There is therefore no basis for a multiannual infrastructure plan. I think this is rather serious and I hope that this will also be addressed as a priority if there is a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u43	Mr Minister, on 1 December 1959 Belgium signed the Antarctic Treaty and thus participated in the preservation of the sixth continent - sometimes called the seventh continent - which was already attracting a great deal of covetousness. Antarctica was thus reserved for science and peace. The Treaty entered into force in 1961. An additional protocol, known as the Madrid Treaty, was subsequently signed in 1991 on the protection of the environment. This Antarctic Treaty System has largely protected this vast territory with an area of 14 million km2, which represents 10% of the Earth's surface, of any military and industrial exploitation. On 2 and 3 December last, together with a colleague, I had the honour of participating, on the initiative of British MP James Gray, in a first parliamentary assembly on Antarctica which met in London and which drew up an inventory on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty. The Assembly finally approved a declaration aimed at strengthening the objectives of the Treaty. The idea of the organizers of this conference is to set up in a more formal way in the future an Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly which would meet on a biennial basis and follow up on the recommendations of the Treaty. A formal approach will be initiated in this regard in the coming months. Minister, do you support the idea of setting up an Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly? Among the challenges to be addressed, the main one is the fight against global warming, which leads to a dramatic melting of ice, which has an impact on marine and terrestrial biodiversity. There are also other issues in the areas of tourism, fishing, waste management, etc. But I would like to ask you in particular about tourism activity on this continent, which has been growing exponentially in recent years. There are some 60,000 visitors a year, but this figure could reach 100,000 visitors a year in the future. To get there, tour operators and travel agencies must be approved by an ad hoc body and must commit to good practice in the field. Minister, can you tell us how many tour operators, travel agencies or associations organising trips and stays in Antarctica have been approved for this activity? What is the evolution of these applications over the last ten years? How many people travel each year to Antarctica for tourist purposes from Belgian agencies? How does the approval procedure take place and what obligations do tourist operators have to fulfil? Finally, I know that tourism is a competence of the Regions. Is there consultation and dialogue between the Federal Science Policy Administration and the regional tourism administrations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u44	Mr President, the responsibility for the Antarctic Treaty lies with my colleague Marghem. We have written to the secretariat of the committee to inform it. I'm sorry, but I can't answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u45	As Minister of Science Policy, I assume you have an opinion on this issue of global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u46	I have an opinion on the matter, of course, but it does not matter because the answer must reflect the government's position. The Antarctic Treaty is not part of my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u47	I will therefore redirect my question to Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u48	Minister, in 2018, the Belgian government announced its successor to the Belgica research vessel. By the end of 2020, the successor of the Belgica, namely Belgica II, should be ready. In the delivery of the new ship in 2020, the current Belgica will have 36 years of service on it. The lifespan of such research vessels is normally only 25 to 30 years. The design and construction assignment started on 8 June 2018 and will take 28 months. The cost of the new ship, built in Spain, would be EUR 54 million. Compared to its predecessor, the new ship will be larger and offer more space to the scientists, with a capacity to take up to 28 scientists on board. It is equipped with the most modern scientific equipment, which allows, among other things, to take samples up to 5,000 meters depth. It will also be a quiet ship with a slight ice strengthening to be able to do research in the Arctic during the summer. Shipping is also an important factor in global warming, as 70% of sulphur emissions come from shipping. Shipping is also evolving and today there are already more environmentally friendly applications than raw diesel in the sector, such as natural gas propulsion. Minister, what fuel does the present Belgica use? How much is the sulphur content and how much does the Belgica consume on a five-day mission? What fuel will the Belgica II sail on? Are we using the most ecological engines, such as natural gas engines, or are we again opting for diesel? What will be the sulphur emissions and consumption of the ship? Is the construction of Belgica II currently on schedule? Will the ship be operational by the end of 2020? Will the budget of EUR 54 million be sufficient for the construction of the Belgica II? If not, how much extra is to be budgeted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u49	Minister, the questions are partly the same and partly different, but you have two separate answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u50	Mrs Vindevoghel, your question was very specific. The current Belgica dates back to 1984 and is equipped with a 110 kW ABC diesel engine. The engine, which is 30 years old, does not meet the latest pollution standards. The new Belgica has been designed more environmentally friendly. The drive uses an electric diesel engine of the youngest generation. The ship is built in accordance with the waste-heat recovery Marpol-tier-III standard, the standard for waste heat recovery. The following elements were also communicated to us. The new ship will use diesel engines that are fully compliant with current and future environmental legislation. Other systems such as gas were investigated during the study phase, but they are expensive and take much more place on board, thus losing a lot of lab space and space for scientific material. On the ship, however, energy-saving equipment is provided, such as LED lighting and heat recovery of the engines. In the harbor, the ship will use power. Consumption is about 25,000 litres of fuel for 5 days. The sulphur content is 0,1% by mass or 4.25 kg sulphur per day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u52	Minister, in 2016, the federal government decided to build a new research vessel to succeed the Belgica. This new oceanographic exploration vessel is expected to replace the current Belgica by around 2020 (i.e. tomorrow) and would be called in fine Belgica 2. Much has been said about the name of this ship. The acquisition of this new exploration ship by our country is, for my group, an important decision which confirms the Belgian commitment more than a hundred years ago to polar research in Antarctica. Minister, my questions partly overlap with my colleague's remarks. I would like to take stock with you of the progress made in this matter both from a budgetary point of view and from a timetable for delivery and commissioning. Is the name of the future boat well confirmed? What will happen to Belgica "1"? More specifically, in his answer to a question from my colleague Jacques Chabot in 2017, the Minister of Defence stated that "the future cooperation between Defence and BELSPO has not yet been discussed". Since the current agreement is clearly to be renegotiated, can you indicate the status of negotiations within the federal government and what is envisaged in this framework? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u53	Mr President, thank you for your question. The Belgica 2 issue is obviously very important for the government, and for me in particular. From a budgetary point of view, the construction of the new ship follows the schedule of the contract with the shipyard Brother. Delivery of the vessel is scheduled for 19 November 2020 and its entry into operation by early 2021. A balance of EUR 40.8 million, out of a total cost of EUR 53.7 million, is still to be paid in instalments in 2020. I confirm that the ship's name will be Belgica, as is the current one. We'll probably call him Belgica 2 to distinguish him from the first. It's not very original, but it's quite pragmatic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u54	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u55	Several leads are currently under consideration about Belgica 1. A first possibility is the operation of Belgica 1 as a scientific education and diving vessel. A second runway is the possible sale of the vessel to a foreign country. The projects have not yet been developed in a concrete way, but there are amateurs. The third solution is not the most exciting: it is the sale of scrap metal. The Convention between Defence and Science Policy is currently under discussion between the departments concerned. I think we can sign it in the first half of next year. We've made good progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u56	Minister, thank you for your answers. They are precise with regard to the timetable. One can hear a start-up in early 2021. You confirmed the name. I must admit that scrap metal is not the formula that I would like to favour, so I hope that it will not be chosen. Finally, can we be informed when the time comes?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u57	Minister, on Friday 22 November, the government decided in current cases to allocate EUR 1.45 billion for the European Space Agency ESA for the period 2020-2024. That's EUR 250 million more than last time. So we can say that Belgium invests heavily in ESA. Therefore, these investments are expected to be returned to our economy by assignments entrusted to companies operating in the space sector and their suppliers in our country. Therefore, Minister, I am very curious to see how these funds will be distributed. What amount goes to compulsory programming? What amount goes to the optional programmes? Which projects are the investments to be made? How big is the investment per project? What is the expected percentage return on investment by Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u58	Mr Minister, I have the same question as Mr Gijbels and I will try not to repeat it. The ESA European Space Agency Council met in Seville at the end of November. Twenty-two ESA Member States, including Belgium, had to approve the budgetary choices and the space programme for the period 2020-2024. You would represent Belgium there. I don't know if you were personally present in this beautiful city before the meeting? It was important for our country and for our leading players in this sector. The impact of ESA policy is even fundamental for our companies in this sector. My question therefore relates to the Belgian priorities that were defended there. After all, we make the sixth highest contribution and even the highest of the medium-sized countries in ESA. The figures for the compulsory and optional programmes have just been quoted, at least their totality. Minister, can you explain the Belgian priorities that you personally defended at the ESA meeting? Secondly, which projects are the subject of funding within the two programmes? Thirdly, the Belgian financing of ESA has, according to the Federal Government, created considerable commercial levers for the Belgian sector for a number of years. It speaks of more than 6,000 full-time equivalents, better competitiveness and scientific levers that put our researchers at the world's top. What are the expectations for the next five years in the light of the quoted strengthening of the contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u59	Minister, I have a similar question. After all, we had also made a calculation, because we are talking about a large budget: Belgium is in fourth place as far as the European continent is concerned. If we look at it per capita, we are even in second place in terms of investment, after Luxembourg. So that's not negative. I shall now turn to my question, Minister. To what do we owe our much greater contribution to ESA, despite the budgetary constraints on the federal budget? Is it merely a measure to defend the economic interests of the sector? Can you guarantee, taking into account the substantial increase in the Belgian contribution to ESA, that this will lead to higher employment in the sector in Belgium? Will the staff framework of the BELSPO Space Service now be strengthened, given the additional investment in the space sector? Can you guarantee that technology developed through research and development funded by the various governments through ESA will not be commercialised and will not therefore be appropriated by a private firm? What specific projects will our contribution be used for? Are there any projects in this area that could possibly have a military character?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u60	Mr President, I have an overall answer to the three questions. I was, of course, in Seville before the ESA ministerial meeting. The European Space Agency, in accordance with the convention it establishes, is an intergovernmental organisation whose task is to ensure and develop cooperation between the European States in the field of space research and technology and their applications exclusively for peaceful purposes. However, as with any sector, it is not excluded that applications that are a priori civilian have military developments. The distribution of the new Belgian contribution of EUR 1,556 billion to the ESA budget can be summarised as follows. A large proportion of EUR 643 million covers commitments arising from previous decisions taken on previous ESA Councils. It is therefore Belgian obligations with regard to already started activities. For the sake of completeness, this amount also covers the liabilities arising from the grant of the guarantee only to a very small extent from commitments relating to bilateral and national programmes. In addition to the obligations arising from previous commitments, Belgium contributes additional €612 million to additional activities in the current and new programmes proposed by ESA within the framework of the ESA Council of Ministers 2019. This contribution covers the period 2020-2024. A contribution of EUR 21 million is reserved, in accordance with the ESA Treaty, for the mandatory ESA programmes, i.e. core activities, science and the Centre Spatial Guyanais. Belgium's contribution is aimed at supplementing or providing the Belgian capacity in the current ESA activities, such as ALTIUS, Proba-V, Ariane 6, Vega-C, the International Space Station and Space Weather. However, we also need to position Belgian actors in ESA's new institutional missions, such as ERA, Sentinel, the EU-ESA Copernicus Programme, Space Rider, Deep Space Gateway and Mars Sample Return, in cooperation with NASA. ESA's research and development programmes for industry and the scientific and academic institutions are an important segment of our strategy and therefore of our contribution. Examples include ARTES for telecoms, NAVISP for navigation, GSTP for general technological development and PRODEX for science. Belgium also supports the development of a centre of expertise and a cybersecurity centre for the protection of ESA's heritage and activities from the ESEC site in Redu. This contribution is part of the continuity of the commitments, including on the occasion of the Lucerne Council, in full connection with the priorities set out in the National Investment Pact. There are many examples that illustrate the particularly positive effect on employment resulting from our contributions to ESA's activities. Copernicus, the Earth observation programme, offers recurring activities to Belgian actors, thanks to the institutional funding offered by the EU. ESA's launch programmes also offer many opportunities in the different development and exploitation phases. The development of new activities, which may create new jobs, is also supported by the programmes ARTES, NAVISP, InCubed and GSTP offered by ESA. ESA shall ensure the application of the principle of proportionate return on a Member State's contribution. This is the guaranteed minimum return. Most studies themselves agree on the multiplier effect times four, which is applied to a contribution according to the OECD. ESA Member States have integrated this principle very well and further strengthened by the current geopolitical context and by the EU's strategy to maintain its autonomous access capacity to space. The increase in our contribution provides a partial response to the needs of the sector and also corresponds to the budgetary dynamism applied by most ESA Member States. This claim is confirmed by the substantial increase in the general budget allocated to ESA. Due to the size of the amounts, Belgium recognises and defends the importance of the space sector in the Belgian economy, the excellence of our scientific and university institutions as well as the preservation of high added value jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u61	Minister, I think it is indeed important that we continue to support research and development and ensure that we remain at the top. I have not yet received an answer to the question as to what the expected return on investment per region is. I think that the return we can expect must be properly monitored. I look forward to further reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u62	To answer this question clearly, allow me to speak in French. The return is estimated to be between 0.8 and 1.2 euro. In other words, a euro injected into ESA generates between 0.8 and 1.2 euro in terms of direct return. In Belgium, there is more than 1 euro, unlike other countries. In addition, return effects (job creation, work with other subcontractors) which, in Belgium, are estimated to be of the order of "times four". Thus, the yield is multiplied by four, which is considerable for the Belgian sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u63	I would have liked to get those figures by Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u64	It's balanced.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u65	We take note of the question, the answer and the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u66	I have no doubt, Minister, that the multiplier effect is considerable. With regard to the optional programmes in the future, the new government may need to confirm a number of things. That seems to me to be the logic itself. I do not doubt the importance of the space sector in the Belgian economy. You have referred to jobs with added value. I'll follow the theme further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u67	Minister, it is a serious investment, knowing that there are many challenges in our country. Think of the healthcare sector, where there are a lot of needs. You spoke of a return on investment. We do not talk about this in health care, while good care for people also pays a great deal for society. I hope that we in Belgium will also look after the military aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, question No. Mr Van Hecke's 55001812C has been converted into a written question. Consequently, the day order is exhausted. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u69	Excuse me, I don't understand how the eMeeting system works, I don't have any more questions on the agenda, but I don't know if that is the case. Do you have any further questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u70	Mr President, I understand that Mr. Van Hecke was turned into a written question, but we received a question from Mrs Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u71	If you have the answer, I agree to add a question. And you also had a question, Mr. Ravyts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u72	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u73	A question could be tabled in another committee. One doesn't prevent the other. Mrs Vindevoghel, is your question for Mr Clarinval?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u74	We have only received this question and we have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u75	Minister, Mrs Vindevoghel has no question, but she has an answer. And I had a question, but I didn't get an answer! See how it works! I'm sorry about all these setbacks. It's not my fault. There are really computer operating problems that are quite disturbing and this does not seem to improve with the months that pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u76	The National Lottery has the legal form of a public limited company and operates in practice as an ordinary company, with the exception that the State is its sole shareholder. It is therefore the property of the State, even if the law provides for the theoretical possibility of extending shareholdership to private persons. The top man of the National Lottery thinks that the company, following the French state lottery, La Française des Jeux, should go to the fair. The CEO of the National Lottery already appointed a business bank three years ago to investigate the IPO. Mr Haek wants to bring part of the National Lottery to the market and refers to the growth of the company and the low interest rate on savings products as an opportunity for citizens to obtain a good return by buying shares of the National Lottery and thus speculating on a price gain. Mr Haek says that the National Lottery has been investigating such an IPO for three years. The management started shortly after former Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt had started the exercise which state-owned companies could be privatised. The management then unilaterally started an investigation procedure for privatisation. Mr Minister, is it true that management, without the knowledge of the sole shareholder, the Belgian State, set up a business bank to investigate the privatisation of the National Lottery? Which business bank is it about exactly? Can you share the conclusion of the investigation with us? How much has that research, which has been going on for three years, cost society so far? Has the Belgian State ordered the investigation? If not, has Mr. Haek out of line with this? Does Mr. Haek still enjoy the trust as CEO of the National Lottery after those demarches? Finally, according to your personal assessment, is it justified to privatise part or all of the National Lottery, which would lead to deregulation of the market, while almost half a million Belgians suffer from problematic gambling behavior to even gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm here that the National Lottery is now being dealt with in our committee. At the beginning of the session, I distributed a document approved by the Conference of Presidents. The National Lottery does indeed belong to the powers of our committee. So, Mr Clarinval, you are now in charge of the National Lottery. Mr Ravyts, you had put your question to another committee? What minister did you address them to?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u78	Since Mr De Croo replied in the press to the suggestion made by the CEO of the National Lottery on privatisation, I felt, apparently mistakenly, that the supervisory minister was Minister De Croo. So I'm allowed to ask my question here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u79	The committee is competent, the minister is competent. But everything depends on whether the Minister has an answer for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u80	The questions are similar. I will then briefly ask them to apologize for the misunderstanding, which the services are also responsible for.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u81	There is certainly an official document.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u82	Mr Minister, Mr Vindevoghel cited the investigation into the financial, legal and technical context of a possible IPO of the National Lottery. Does the federal government know about that? In the press, Mr De Croo acted as if he had nothing to do with it. What is your response to the CEO's response to the need for a more stable regulatory framework for the Belgian gambling sector as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u83	Ms Vindevoghel, Mr Ravyts, the government had a study carried out in 2015 on the repositioning of its public participations. The National Lottery was also the subject of that 2015 study. The National Lottery confirms to me that it had a similar internal study carried out in order to prepare itself as well as possible for a possible decision by the government. Following the recent exhibition of La Française des Jeux, the management of the National Lottery considered it appropriate to update the internal study. The National Lottery, as is customary in such matters, has entered into a confidentiality commitment with the relevant business bank, which means that the content and conclusions of the study cannot be publicly communicated. The National Lottery was transformed into a public limited company of public law by the law of 19 April 2002. At that time, the legislator expressly stipulated that the National Lottery should have greater autonomy. The National Lottery thus has a wide autonomy to study future developments. The study in question falls under the delegation of powers to the Management Committee. It is therefore not contrary to the management contract between the National Lottery and the government that management also has a strategic reflection on this. I would stress that, of course, it is always up to the government-shareholder to decide whether or not to sell her participation. Thirdly, the question of whether an operation should also be considered in Belgium, as in France, should be answered by a subsequent government. In any case, it is a mistake to think that privatisation of the National Lottery would automatically lead to deregulation of the gambling market. Gambling legislation must indeed be there to protect players. The shareholder structure of the providers is not relevant in this respect; this is the case for the nature of the games of chance and the risks associated with them. In recent years, the government has taken several regulatory and legislative initiatives for stricter and more effective regulation of the gambling sector. The general policy line was that games of greater risk should be subject to stricter regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u84	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. However, we would like to see ongoing studies and proposals on the possibilities on the table being public and discussed here. After all, it is about a public company in the hands of the government. We must follow them up in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u85	Minister, I take note of the obligation of confidentiality. Of course, I was aware of the greater autonomy of the management committee of a public law nv. I thought your colleague was a bit pissed off about the CEO's announcement. You have explained well that it is about a similar study, which has now been updated. It is clear that stricter rules are needed. We will continue to monitor the matter and I will look into it this afternoon in committee with your colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic066x.u86	On this last point, we have decided to hear in our committee the CEOs of public companies. We had an in-depth exchange with the deputy head of the Régie des Bâtiments and we will soon receive Proximus and bpost. Nothing prevents the commission from hearing the boss of the National Lottery. On the other hand, I will inform the Conference of Presidents of the problems on the agenda.
