ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u1	Mr Minister, the problem of rail runs has been on the rise for a long time and Infrabel wants to move a gear up in the fight against it. That is why, in addition to Securail, which falls within the scope of SNCB, it also wants to involve the railway police, which is responsible for the federal police, and to involve the local police in stepping up checks. In the event of serious infringements and/or recidivism, Justice is also involved. Of course, this requires very clear communication and thorough consultation. Minister, when was the meeting with your colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department held? What was the outcome of the consultation? Has a cost estimate been made of the security action? Has a cost key been worked out? Is there a division of tasks between the three competent authorities? When and how was the federal police informed of the additional efforts? When and how were local police zones informed of the additional efforts that threaten to affect local police work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u2	Tracking not only causes human dramas, but also weighs heavily on the punctuality of train traffic. To address the phenomenon, Infrabel has developed a scientific method that takes into account both the profile of the trackers and the places or spots where such dangerous behaviour is regularly identified. On the basis of the analyses, an action plan was drawn up which takes account of the different parameters, supported on three pillars. First, there is the sensitisation, a domain in which Infrabel is particularly active through various tools such as the school calendar or the virtual reality experience in The Box. Secondly, we are dealing with prevention through the installation of fences, surveillance cameras or trip mats. Thirdly, there is repressive action by Securail and the various police forces. The scientific studies carried out by Infrabel showed that only by repressive action can a change of behaviour be achieved in part of the trackers. The actions of the past few days must be seen in that perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u3	Mr Minister, thank you for your answer, which shows a greater courtesy than the one I noticed at the municipal council in my commune yesterday, which is already a positive thing. A On the other hand, I have to say that you did not reply to all the questions. The map of sensitisation has been drawn for some time, but has not produced sufficient results. That is why it is necessary to act repressively. It remains unclear to us how the costs will be distributed and what will happen with the additional burden on, among other things, the local police areas on the ground. How will the communication go? It is very important. Moreover, following other questions on the agenda today, you will notice that communication between the various services is not always efficient. We are therefore concerned about this, which does not affect the noble and good intentions of the approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u4	Minister, I recently heard that the Antwerp police force decided to purchase drones. It is not about ordinary drones, but about devices that can take over other, possibly unwanted, drones or even take them out of the air if necessary. The use of drones has increased sharply in recent years in Belgian airspace. There are certain rules in the Skeyes drone guide. There are also a number of prohibition signs around the airport, but that does not prevent people with bad intentions from using drones to commit a terrorist attack at the airport. I therefore have a few questions, Minister. Were there any indications that people with less good intentions have tried to compromise safety at Zaventem airport through drones? How many drone incidents were recorded at Zaventem Airport last year? Are you aware of the European Skyfall project on the deployment of drones that can take over or catch other drones? Have you taken steps to secure Zaventem Airport with these drones against unwanted drones? If so, what are these steps? What is the state of play and the result? Was skeyes involved in this? If not, why not and will this still happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u5	Mr Troas, Brussels Airport Company is one of the stakeholders in a co-ordinated procedure that records the reports of the alleged sightings of drones as well as their follow-up. The other stakeholders and participants in the procedure are the DGLV with certain airports and inspections, skeyes, federal police and the Heli Wing of federal police, airport police, Leuven's 100-speed centre and, as mentioned above, Brussels Airport Company, specifically for airport security operations air force. In the context of the application of the procedure, five statements by alleged drones were made in 2018. According to the information available to Brussels Airport Company as an airport operator, there was so far no malicious use of drones. Brussels Airport Company is also part of a DGLV initiative which, with the help of several working groups, develops new approaches to technology, process identification, localization and dampening. The Belgian Drone Council is open to public actors and business. Working group 4 of the Belgian Drone Council is dedicated to examining all safety aspects related to drone operations. The Working Group will make recommendations or proposals aimed at protecting the public interest while maintaining the possibility of developing drone operations. For example, the working group will focus on anti-drone measures, airport protection and other sensitive areas against drones. Thanks to the international airport network, Airports Council International World and Airports Council International Europe, Brussels Airport Company is able to monitor all developments in legislation and industry's good practices in order to implement them in the processes, in collaboration with skeyes and the DGLV. With regard to Skyfall, neither the DGLV nor myself have been informed about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I note that so far, fortunately, there have been no incidents at the airport involving malicious intent. I hope, of course, that we can keep it that way. That is, of course, only a lot, and given what we have already experienced at the airport, the reality is, of course, that this can happen. That is why it is very important that the drone problem is given due attention. I would like to hear you say that there is a working group within the Belgian Drone Council working on this, but it is of course still waiting for their recommendations and it is a very acute problem. The Skyfall project is a European-led project. The Antwerp police force got the mustard there. So I would certainly recommend that this Belgian Drone Council should contact Skyfall's project leaders in order to move a little faster towards appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u7	Mr President, Minister, one of the largest stations in the country, Ghent-Sint-Pieters, has been under construction for several years. The works started in 2010 after years of preparation. These were repeated delays. The multi-annual investment plan 2018-2022 provides for an investment of 6.9 million euros for the works, starting in 2026. According to the report of the city of Ghent, the second phase of the project has been shut down for over a year. Pending its launch, the plans would even be re-signed. Mr Minister, why has the second phase of the project not been launched so far? When will that happen? What changes are planned? What's the extra charge? When is the delivery expected? What amount has already exceeded the initial cost at the start in 2010?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u8	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, SNCB tells me that the actual work for the second phase will start in 2020. The city of Ghent and SNCB have agreed to reach a joint agreement on the new phase 2 plans, i.e. the work on track 7 to 1, before submitting a new building application. The necessary studies and consultations are under way. The target remains to submit the building application by the end of this year or early next year. The target date for the end of works at the station is 2027, subject to possible obstacles such as legal procedures or unforeseen circumstances. In view of the ongoing tendering procedure and the ongoing investigation at the Court of Auditors, which the Chamber will be able to take note of, I cannot at present give any further details about the project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a difficult and extensive project, with many problems. The cost of the first phase of the project has already been exceeded by EUR 26 million. We are 15 years after the signing of the first cooperation agreement and, if I understand correctly, the second phase will begin next year. I hope that both SNCB and yourself, as well as those responsible for the policy, have drawn the necessary conclusions from what has gone wrong in the first phase, so that the second one could be all the easier and, above all, so that the cost picture remains under control.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u10	Minister, the Schoonaarde station building, near Dendermonde, was closed on 1 July 2004. Since then, the building has been inaccessible to the public. SNCB indicated in the past that it is willing to give up or sell the building, but that it is in the inability to do so, because Infrabel still has an inheritance service on that building and because there are still installations in it. In the correspondence with the city of Dendermonde, the railway companies indicated in the past that the installation would remain at least until 2018. We're a year later, but nothing's happened since then. After fifteen years, Schoonaarde's station building degenerates into a construction site. The roof of a side wing collapsed four years ago. The building is a protected monument, but there isn't much to notice anymore and there isn't much to look at either. Minister, what policy do you adopt in relation to rotting monuments owned by public enterprises? What maintenance work has been done there since 2004, since the closure of the station in Schoonaarde? Why not provide basic maintenance, for example for the collapsed roof? What does Infrabel intend to do with the installations in that building? When are these installations gonna be taken out of there? Can that happen faster? What does SNCB intend to do with that station building? What maintenance works are planned, at what time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u11	Mr Roggeman, with regard to your question on what SNCB is doing with its real estate that it no longer needs for its public service tasks, I refer to my answer to your written question No 13. The SNCB and the city of Dendermonde have very recently started to redesign the station environment of Schoonaarde. Both the station square and the parking lot are renewed. Schoonaarde's station environment will have a new car park for 78 cars and 6 places for passengers with reduced mobility. There will also be a new covered bicycle storage next to the station building. Later, SNCB also provides a covered bicycle storage on the other side of the station. The railway station square, the access road and the parking area will have a new sewer and public lighting. Next to the car park is a green area. There are indeed still installations in the station building, which, according to Infrabel, are necessary for the operation of the existing signalling device. These installations could not be removed from the station building until the new signalling system was hired in 2023. The early removal of the old installations would, according to Infrabel, pose unnecessary risks in terms of punctuality and safety. According to SNCB, a possible sale of the station building does not seem appropriate at the moment, since Infrabel's inheritance service significantly reduces the value of the building in any case. SNCB will, however, consider the time limit for the valorisation of the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u12	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I understand that there will be no de facto changes to the station building until at least 2023, when the building will be empty for 19 years and will therefore show advanced signs of decay. If SNCB and Infrabel are really in a position to give up the building, it seems to me to be a minimum that they accept their responsibility for maintenance and do not let their property rot. As a private individual, we should not try to do that either. A public undertaking also has a certain role to play and may at least assume that responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u13	Mr President, Minister, there are serious concerns about the future of the SNCB judgment in Verviers-Palais. These are the result of the SNCB's publication last April of passenger counts at all stations and stops across the country. According to these statistics, only eleven passengers would take the train to Verviers-Palais during the week. Recently, in a letter addressed to you by the mayor of Verviers, Verviers wondered about these figures, which seem somewhat underestimated when people visit the place every day. Since 9 June, due to work, the number of trains stopping every day at Verviers-Palais on weekdays is limited: two in the morning in the direction Welkenraedt-Verviers, none during the day and two departures in the other direction at 1651 and 2130 hours. This situation is expected to continue until 13 December. The maintenance of the SNCB stop point of Verviers-Palais, in the very heart of the woolly city, in the city centre, is very important for this city, capital of the district. Thanks to this stop, the city centre is directly connected to the towns of Welkenraedt and Dolhain in the east and those of Pepinster, Spa and Theux in the west. When we know how much Verviers is affected by the problem of periurbanisation and commercial desertification, direct connection with neighbouring municipalities becomes a vital issue for his future. In addition, this line is used daily by hundreds of students and students because it allows them to land the train in the immediate vicinity of their learning location. Without this stop, they would be asked for a long detour on foot with potential road safety consequences. At a time when people are being asked to focus on mobility solutions that do not allow cars to be used, in order to reduce our CO2 emissions and to reduce congestion in our city centres, it is difficult for citizens to understand this policy of reducing the geographical coverage of the public transport offer. Minister, what follow-up has been given to the mail sent to you by the mayor of Verviers? What is the methodology used by SNCB in carrying out its counts? Should it not, if necessary, be reviewed in the light of the somewhat bizarre results that it has delivered? Can you commit yourself to the sustainable maintenance of this breakpoint?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u14	Mr President, dear colleague, Infrabel is currently carrying out important work in the Ensival tunnel, resulting in a single-track service between Pepinster and Verviers-Central. This project is carried out in two phases, the first having been implemented from February 2018 to December 2018 and the second being in place from June 10, 2019 until the end of the year. Due to the significant reduction in capacity, train schedules had to be adapted. Therefore, during the two phases of work, only four trains per day stop at Verviers-Palais instead of the thirty-two normally planned. The latest figures for mounted travellers were established in October 2018 on the basis of this reduced offer. SNCB observed that eleven passengers boarded four trains serving the station during this period of work. The usual use of Verviers-Palais is, on average, between 100 and 200 passengers per day. After completion of the work, there will be no reason why we should not find this situation with the 32 trains that will always stop at Verviers-Palais. SNCB has undertaken not to take any decision on the basis of the current figures. Like you, she deplores this temporary situation linked to the work and which is completely independent of her will. I would also like to add that the current management contract does not allow the closure of any breakpoints in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answer, which can be seen at this stage as reassuring. However, we will remain vigilant about mobility and accessibility issues through soft modes in the centres of our cities and municipalities, given the phenomenon of periurbanisation that destroys them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u16	Mr President, it has already been said in the first quarter of this sitting that the issue of the North-South link in Brussels has been a cause for concern and concern for many groups and citizens, especially commuters. At the end of July, Infrabel announced that large infrastructure works would start at the most notorious bottleneck on the Belgian rail network. Not only the moment of announcement was strange, but also the beginning and duration of the works themselves. The autumn months of October and November are the busiest of the year of work. In addition, an announcement of such major works is very short notice three months before its launch. Of course, the traveller, in most cases commuting workers to the Brussels-Capital Region, is the victim. I assume that, in consultation with your federal colleague responsible for Work, as well as with the regional colleagues responsible for the Policy area of Work, solutions have been sought and will be sought to minimise the inconvenience. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Were you aware of the work to be started and the length of time involved? If yes, to what extent did you have a say in planning the works and why was this not communicated earlier? If not, did you then take action to bring Mr Lallemand van Infrabel to a better understanding in a constructive and communicative way? Have you been in partnership with your federal colleague from Work and with your regional colleagues responsible for the Work policy area, looking for constructive and creative solutions, such as space- and time-independent works? If not, is such consultation still planned, possibly in conjunction with consultation with the various employers' organizations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u17	Mr Minister, the Nord-Midi junction has become, over time, a key element for mobility in Brussels as well as for our economy. In order to ensure its smooth operation in the medium and long term, work has been planned for the period from 14 October to 12 November. The aim is to modernise signalling and to computerise signalling in order to install the ETCS train braking system, which is part of the plan drawn up after the Buizingen rail disaster to guarantee greater safety on the rail. For technical reasons, it was announced that the capacity of the network would be reduced during this period throughout the junction, without further details. Many rumours have been circulating, sometimes sparking mistrust or anger among travellers. At the beginning of August, however, no decision had yet been taken as to how the capacity of the network would be effectively reduced, since the Infrabel-SNCB working group was still under discussion. However, Infrabel confirmed that of the 104 high-speed trains that cross the North-Midi junction on a daily basis, a solution would have been found for only 46 of them. For the remaining 58 trains, alternatives were still sought (deletion, change of route, change of stop, replacement by buses, etc.).). Last Tuesday, Infrabel provided, at a press conference, details of the consequences of this work on the lines taken by commuters. From 18 October to 8 November, 30% and then 50% of the switches at the south entrance of Brussels will be blocked in a fixed position with a view to renewing them and on the 300 trains that take the junction daily during the morning peak hours, 85% of them will continue to follow their usual route. Twelve P trains will be abolished, thirty-five P trains will be limited or diverted to other Brussels stations (Brussels-Schuman, Brussels-West, Jette and Mérod). Finally, Infrabel adds that due to the temporary decrease in the number of referrals, it will be impossible to set up alternative routes in case of disturbance. Minister, have these solutions proposed by Infrabel been presented to you? Are there alternatives? If so, why were they not retained? Can we not have more impact on off-peak hours than on peak hours? Who will be responsible for the cost of these alternatives and the related information campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u18	Mr President, the other Members have already described the situation. I shall therefore confine myself to the question. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what obstacles do you expect in the coming weeks as a result of the planned work? How many trains are deleted according to the latest adjustment planning? What measures are being taken to reduce nuisances? Can SNCB reduce the traffic nuisance to and from Brussels by cutting some large IC connections along the North-South axis, for example the Ostend-Liège and Antwerp-Charleroi lines, and using the stations on both sides as head stations? Why weren't the works planned during the summer holidays? In your opinion, is the massification of works by Infrabel during the day rather than at night and during the weekends still a sensible measure? Do you still support that way of working? Have you brought those responsible for Infrabel and SNCB around the table in order to avoid a repetition of such scenarios in the future? What did those meetings get you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u19	Mr President, I will not repeat everything either. Minister, we are all well aware that the work will have enormous consequences for the travellers who have to enter Brussels. It's about a lot of people involved. It will be a true trial for the travellers. In its presentation of the infrastructure works of 12 September 2019 on page 8, Infrabel has the title "To carry out work with a minimum burden on travelers is becoming increasingly difficult." The reason is the decrease in the number of employees available during that period. Firstly, Minister, are you aware of the major work, its duration and the lack of available staff at Infrabel? How long will the work take? Will they last longer because of the shortage of staff? Secondly, how will you, in your capacity as Minister of Mobility, ensure in the future that such far-reaching works can be carried out with less consequences for travellers? How will Infrabel ensure that they have sufficient staff to carry out work more quickly and thus with less inconvenience for passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u20	Minister, the important work planned on the North-Midi junction is causing a lot of ink to flow. I do not wish to question the merits of this work because, in the long run, it is a matter of improving the efficiency, safety and punctuality of this section, the most borrowed part of the country. In other words, if we want a quality network, we obviously have to go through it. SNCB, Infrabel and STIB appear to be measuring the impact of this work on travellers, at least in their external communication. Alternative solutions are thus proposed. This period of year remains the choice for the work. It is said that these will spread over several days of school leave at the beginning of the year. This may be a laudable intention, but raises some questions, which you will allow me to ask you. Minister, why didn't this work take place during the big school holidays? Who pays the cost of the alternatives offered to travellers? Should SNCB customers forced to use STIB not receive compensation if they need to purchase a STIB ticket? In the long run, to what extent will this work improve the quality of service on the junction?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u21	Mr President, Minister, much has already been said and I will try not to repeat it. The example of the North-South link is only one example of the apparent lack of communication between Infrabel and SNCB, on the one hand, or the users of the infrastructure, on the other. In the course of the work, it has already been suggested to hold a hearing on the issue, and I think that is a good idea. As far as the North-South link is concerned, it is clear that these work must be done. It is essential for the safety of the infrastructure that the works be realised. The question is whether the timetable is wisely planned. In the middle of the autumn, mostly the busiest period is on track and SNCB is the most difficult to approach the punctuality objectives. So much for the timeline question. The second, more general, question concerns coordination and planning. How do you see the role of coordination between SNCB and Infrabel? Does the FPS have a role to play in this? In what way do you intend to achieve this? We are also looking at the management contracts, which were regularly discussed in the previous, or rather the current, legislative period, without ever having been knocked off. These may be essential in order to clearly define the tasks of Infrabel and SNCB. What is the current state of play in this regard? Is that still being worked on, or is that going to remain until there is a full government? Cooperation between Infrabel and SNCB requires clear agreements and management contracts can be a good tool for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 14 October to 12 November, Infrabel will carry out the final stage of the modernisation of the Nord-Midi axis, which is based in particular on the complete computerisation of the traffic management tools, working on the 200 switches, the 170 cabinets, on all the light signals, etc. This last stage concerns the modernisation of the signalling system on the south side of the Brussels-Midi railway station. The replacement of this half-century technology is essential to ensure safety and reliability. In terms of safety, a technological leap is also an indispensable prerequisite for the installation of the permanent train speed control system, ETCS, which must enable Belgium to achieve the best rail safety standards. This is one of the main recommendations of the Buizingen Committee, which I would like to remind you, Mr President, that you must follow up on. If I recall correctly, you have to hold one meeting a year to review the status of implementation of the Commission's recommendations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u23	This will be put on the agenda. I promise you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u24	It is therefore not a question of the massification of works, but of the final phase of a colossal construction site. The two companies met several times. During the process, I wanted my staff to participate in the development of a balanced solution between the need to carry out this work and the urgent need to reduce the impact on traffic, whereas from the outset more than 100 P trains per day were mentioned, which in my view was unacceptable. These works will limit the access of certain trains to the Brussels-South railway station for one month and the capacity of the North-South link as a result of a temporary reduction in the supply of trains to and from Brussels during the morning and evening pits. In close cooperation, the operational teams of SNCB and Infrabel have drawn up an alternative transport plan designed to minimise the impact of the works on passengers. In concrete terms, 85% of the total of the three hundred trains that travel each day of the week at the junction during peak hours, in the morning and evening, will continue to follow their usual route on the North-Midi axis. About ten P trains – the state-of-the-art trains – will not be able to operate. Some 30 other P trains will be diverted to another Brussels station or limited in their journey. For these, alternatives have been developed to facilitate the door-to-door journey of the passengers concerned. The emphasis will be on intermodality in order to reach the final destination via a rail connection allowing users to travel in the Brussels Region, but also through other sustainable means of transport – such as trams, buses and metros offered by STIB. Since 24 September, this alternative transport plan has been the subject of a detailed train-by-train communication provided by SNCB on its website and application for its customers. The company's travel planner takes these adjustments into account, so that the traveller can already organize himself accordingly. General information will also be launched on all other SNCB communication channels: newsletters, social networks, station and train screens, station posters, etc. Similarly, as work approaches, announcements will be broadcast on the stations and trains concerned. SNCB also maintains contact with employers' federations and Brussels school institutions in order to inform them of the potential impact of this work in terms of mobility. Perhaps this would be an opportunity for schools, businesses and all those who move to make use of the vast potential of teleworking – an activity that could still reach a 50% growth rate in Brussels – or to carpool between neighbours. Finally, to ensure the management of passenger flows and to inform them as best they can, SNCB will strengthen the presence of its staff members on the docks and at the station, as well as its Securail agents during the morning and evening peak hours, during the week and during the two long weekends. In addition, stewards will be deployed at the train stations where a connection with STIB will be recommended, especially in the stations Brussels-West and Merode. A large number of studies have already been carried out on the increase in capacity of the North-South link over the past 15 years. This type of analysis is intended as a basis for the choices that can be made for the future. As a result of the gradual introduction of the GEN supply on the new infrastructures currently being built, and the increasing demand for rail mobility, Infrabel is already required to consider today, together with the railway operators, in order to increase the robustness of and capacity on the axes by the capital. About two in three passengers already use these rail axes daily today. There are several possibilities to make even better use of current capacity through more efficient operation, such as the roll-out of the system of Automatic Train Operation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The demand for rail transport continues to grow, despite the inauguration of new infrastructures such as the Schuman-Josaphat tunnel. There is therefore inevitably an impact on the capacity of the Nord-Midi junction, the true node of the Belgian railway network, as I have already explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. However, you have not removed my concerns. I hope that in October and November I have been wrongly concerned with the other commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stress that we are in no way calling into question the usefulness of this work. As you have rightly said, it is a matter of complying with the Commission's recommendations on the Buizingen disaster, but also of modernising a system that needs it. The point of our questions was whether the proposed solutions were balanced. You just insisted on that balance. I did not hear you mention any answer as to why peak hours were emphasized rather than off-peak hours. I stress that this junction is essential both for commuters entering Brussels and for other commuters. Indeed, the train has really become an essential mode of transport within the capital. I also wanted to insist on consultation with the other regions, which must be undertaken before solutions are put in place, but also when they are implemented. In particular, STIB had been asked not only to ensure certain connections but also to refer passengers. You mentioned the provision of some SNCB personnel, but it seems to me that STIB agents were also mobilised. Therefore, it is important to have minimal consultation with the Brussels Region. Finally, you have rightly stressed the usefulness of intermodal transport. In order to make it effective, it is also necessary to consult with the Brussels Region. I really call on you to remain vigilant about this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u27	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Two years ago, Infrabel presented its new plan of approach to infrastructure work in this committee. Basically, interventions on the railway lines would be more concentrated during the day in the week. My predecessor, Mrs Inez De Coninck, then member of this committee, predicted that this would cause problems in terms of services. We are now two years later and we have to see that this prediction is, unfortunately, coming true. I fear that in future we will face even more problems of this kind as long as Infrabel continues to concentrate his work on weekdays during the day. Moreover, it will not improve if the coordination between SNCB and Infrabel continues as it is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I am sorry that you did not really answer my question about the staff at Infrabel. Since 2005 the number of employees has decreased from 15,000 to 10,000. That's a big cut. In concrete terms, for the last eight months, we have seen a reduction in the number of trackers: 113 trackers retired or were fired and 71 recruiters were recruited. This means that there are 42 trackers less. I think that is a very important element. If we want the works to go well, there must be enough staff to carry out those works.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u29	Minister, do you have an additional answer to Mrs Vindevoghel's question? She says you didn't answer a question about the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u30	My question was, what about the staff? The slides we received from Infrabel show that there is less staff, so the work may take longer. According to our figures, this year there are actually fewer tracers in the first eight months, if we look at the number of recruitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u31	I do not have enough information to answer you. All I know is that more than 350 workers will be active on the site. Initially, the schedule was spread over six months, with daily disruptions for six months. The choice made by Infrabel is to focus the activity on two weekends, which will be very disturbed since there will be almost no passage. They wanted to take advantage of it. But it is important to know that a construction site of such magnitude mobilizes teams for more than six months of preparation, control of supplies, etc. It's a construction site of great complexity. I come back to the hours and the idea of working during off-peak hours. There are almost no more off-peak hours and peak hours in Brussels, except for the P. Or Infrabel trains, which we immediately said was impossible. Other solutions had to be found. We did it at a time when all staff had to be mobilized. I think that leave during this period has even been refused, because we really have to work intensely. When the northern part of the Gare du Midi was completed, and part of the Gare du Nord, it was necessary to make adjustments for a few days. I have no other elements that would allow me to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u32	Those works were planned and I assume that in such large works there will be enough staff or recruitment to carry out those works. We have heard from Infrabel that the work could go better if there were enough staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. Nor do we question the usefulness of this work, which is also important for the safety of travellers. Having said that, I have not received a satisfactory answer on the timing of the work. Therefore, we will remain vigilant with regard to the choice of dates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u34	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u35	Minister, in December 2020 SNCB will normally introduce a new transport plan. The development of this plan is currently being discussed, as demonstrated by the consultation on Monday 24 July between the railway company and the Limburg stakeholders. It is striking that, during the consultation, SNCB announced that it would carry out an investigation into the redevelopment of the Hasselt-Antwerpen connection. For the record, that is a good thing. After all, if you want to trace from Hasselt to Antwerp today, you have to change in Aarschot or make a detour via Brussels Airport. Because of this long journey time, the connection is absolutely not competitive with car traffic. The fast IC connection was cancelled in 2014, explaining that the railway line was overloaded by heavy freight traffic between the Antwerp port and the German Ruhr area. First of all, freight transport has not been under any less pressure in recent years. Does Infrabel consider it possible to release capacity for additional IC trains on that line? Secondly, if so, will that be at the expense of other connections? Which ones are they? Thirdly, what are the five most popular destinations for travelers departing from Hasselt station? Finally, SNCB is also investigating the possibility of establishing a direct peak hour link between the north of Limburg and Brussels, without switching to Mol. What is Infrabel's position on that SNCB idea? Is there sufficient capacity available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u36	The studies for an additional IC-connection Hasselt-Antwerp are in full swing. Infrabel will check whether the requested lanes are adaptable to the current structure of the transport plan and will propose the necessary changes to relations other than SNCB to technically plan the new connection correctly and robustly. At the same time, Infrabel must ensure that it does not discriminate against the various candidates wishing to organise capacity on the rail network in the distribution process. The IC connection requested is also an important international freight corridor. A certain capacity should be reserved for that corridor between the border with Germany and the ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge. The applications of the timetable candidates from December 2020 are not yet known, but at least a volume for freight lanes is expected to be requested which corresponds to what is currently available for freight transport on the freight corridors. As a good family father, Infrabel will anticipate this by aligning the necessary capacity for the movement of goods with the capacity faded by SNCB. If, after the submission of the official lane applications in April 2020, there is competition in the applications between the different candidates, Infrabel will follow the appropriate procedure set out in the network statement, providing an acceptable solution for all applications after the stage of coordination. If this does not result in a solution, not all lane applications can be allocated and Infrabel will apply the relevant legal provisions. I come to your last question, about a possible direct peak hour link between North Limburg and Brussels. That peak hour connection is only possible if line 19 is electrified. However, such a connection is not ideal from the point of view of robustness, since it uses many different sections, including some busy sections such as Herentals-Lier and Duffel-Mechelen-Brussels, combined with single track sections. The least disturbance on one lane can have a direct impact on the punctuality of the entire connection. Finally, a new meeting was set up in spring 2020 to present the transport plan. For all additional questions, you can contact SNCB until then.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u37	Mr Minister, you have not answered my question about the most popular destinations, but I assume you will be able to send me the answer by e-mail afterwards. I'm noticing that Infrabel's in the middle of a study. Of course, freight capacity must be taken into account. I would like to stress that I want to be pragmatic in thinking along with you. There must be a healthy balance, because rail freight transport is indeed important to reduce the pressure of road freight traffic. Now that the exercise is being made, I call for a healthy balance and the necessary creativity. I find it inexplicable that the capital of my province is barely accessible from an important city in Flanders in a good and smooth way. I really hope that we can take a step forward. I am pleased that SNCB has opened the door. I hope we can find a healthy solution. I will return to my last question when the electrification of line 19 will be complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u38	Minister, this question is indirectly related to my previous question, but I will come back to that later. In early 2018, the results of an international study on three possible routes for the Iron Rhine became known. The study showed that the 3RX-tracé "the so-called Third Way" which runs through Venlo towards the Ruhr area is the most feasible option. Flanders and the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia almost immediately joined the route and Germany now seems to be on board, because in January Flemish minister Ben Weyts announced that the German federal government is willing to take the lead on the three-country talks between Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium. I have a number of specific questions on this subject, Minister. What is the state of this three-country dialogue? Have any concrete agreements been reached on the conduct of these talks? Does Infrabel have any idea of the exact route on Flemish territory and of any accompanying and mitigating measures that will be required? One requirement for the Iron Rhine is the electrification of the railway link Mol-Hamont. The works have been started and you have just referred to them yourself and should be completed by the end of 2020. Will that timing be achieved? Finally, SNCB has launched a feasibility study at your request to move line 19 between Antwerp and Hamant to the Dutch Weert. When can we expect the results of this study? The Dutch ProRail is also investigating the reactivation of the same railway line between Weert and Hamont. Are the results of this already known and can you explain them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u39	Mr Raskin, after the completion of the 3RX study, an international working group was set up with representatives of Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, the Flemish Region and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia. That trilateral working group came together on 14 December 2018 and on 10 July 2019 in Berlin. Germany is responsible for organising and chairing this working group. Those first two meetings sought to shape a mandate, scope and functioning of the working group, prior to further substantive discussions of the Iron Rhine dossier. A further consultation of the Working Group is scheduled to take place at the beginning of 2020. As far as the route on Belgian territory is concerned, this is the same for each of the three variants examined. It concerns the railway 15 from Antwerp to Mol and then the railway 19 from Mol to the Belgian-Dutch border in Hamant-Achel. Infrabel has already studied the necessary mitigation and accompanying measures in the past in consultation with the municipalities concerned. Those measures may need to be updated, taking into account the more recent transport forecasts. According to Infrabel, the works of electrification of the railway line 19 between Mol and Hamont are proceeding according to plan. The necessary building permits were obtained and the work on the overhead contact line started in September 2018. The construction of the substation starts in August 2019. The target date for the deployment of the electrified rail will remain at the end of December 2020. Indeed, I instructed SNCB in the spring to have a potential study carried out on the Antwerp-Hamont-Weert link. The results of this study are expected in autumn 2019. On 11 July 2019, the Dutch State Secretary van Veldhoven gave an explanation of the preliminary results of the studies carried out in the Netherlands for the activation of the Hamont-Weert connection by means of a letter to the Dutch Parliament on national passenger transport services by rail. On the basis of these studies, the State Secretary would then consult the local authorities and also ask for a second opinion on the amount of infrastructure costs. More information on this is expected in the autumn, when the SNCB study will also be available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I would just like to draw your attention to the importance of this dossier. I know that this is a very difficult dossier, given the many actors involved, but if I was referring in my previous question to the poor rail opening of Limburg and the lack of high-quality passenger transport, this has to do with the rather intensive use of roads for freight transport. I therefore believe that a solution is possible if the busy traffic is transported from the port of Antwerp via the shortest and most logical route to the Ruhr area via this route. This would free up a lot of capacity for passenger transport on the Limburg lanes. I think both have something to do with each other. I would therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u41	Mr President, Minister, the renovation work at Hasselt station has been delayed. You confirmed that a while ago in response to a question from your former colleague, now mayor of Hasselt, Steven Vandeput. The first phase of the works at the rear of the station should have been completed in January. Perhaps the delivery would only be three months later. However, the timetable of the platform work, or the second stage, would not be compromised. First of all, was the first phase of the works completed? I have been able to see for myself that this has happened, but my question was tabled on 15 July. The second question remains relevant. Will the second phase of the work start as planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that since 5 July, its train passengers at Hasselt station have been able to use the new access at the rear of the station. SNCB has completely covered access in Runkst in recent months. A new staircase has also come to the tunnel under the tracks. In the course of next year there will be an elevator. The renewed access in Runkst is a first big step in the renewal of the Hasselt station. SNCB invests more than 13 million euros to turn the station into a functional and contemporary station. SNCB expects the works to start at the end of 2019 for the second phase. In the coming years, SNCB will renew the tunnel under the tracks with an elevator and an escalator to each platform. The platforms themselves are raised and equipped with new sofas and shelters. Since September last year there have been new information screens on the platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u43	Indeed, Minister, I have already noticed that the back of the station has been dealt with in the meantime, despite the delay. I also hear that the planned timing will continue to apply for the second phase. Together with all the other Limburgers I look forward to the further development of that second phase. Hopefully we will soon be able to enjoy a station worthy of that name. I would certainly like to thank you for your efforts in this area, because I am well aware that I was almost stalking you with this in the previous legislature. However, we are now getting some results, and that is the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I was very surprised a while ago when, in De Tijd of 12 July 2019, I was not the first newspaper to read that rail freight transport in Belgium would have fallen in 2018. I expected the opposite. There are several reasons, both technical and other, which I hope to hear from you. In any case, the number of train kilometres will fall by 3.5 % to 13.2 million kilometres in 2018. What are the reasons for the reduction in train kilometres? What evolution has, more broadly speaking, occurred in gross tonnage transport in recent years? I asked for the figures from 2015 to 2018, so in recent years. Does a particular region or line stand out in terms of decline? Finally, will the planned increase in rail freight transport from 10% to 15% by 2030 be compromised or will it be possible to achieve it in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u45	Mr President, Mr Troasts, the number of train kilometres has actually fallen by about 3% for 2018. According to Infrabel, the decrease can be partly explained by the restrictions imposed on the use of certain tracks due to maintenance work but also by the efforts of freight operators to drive more efficiently. Indeed, the reduction in the number of train kilometres must be seen together with the increase in the net tonnage of transport. The latter increased from 60,407,444 tonnes in 2017 to 62,713,750 tonnes in 2018, an increase of 3,8%. That means an increasing volume with fewer trains. We cannot therefore talk about a reduction in rail freight transport. With regard to your questions about the gross tonnage of transport and the lines that had fallen, I will provide you with a table. The shift in freight transport from road to rail is an important element in helping to reduce traffic congestion and achieve the environmental objectives that Belgium is pursuing. The share of rail freight in Belgium has fallen from 15.3 % in 2008, which is before the financial crisis, to 12.1 % in 2017. The modal share thus remains below the European average of just over 17%, according to statistics from Eurostat from 2017. The Belgian Rail Freight Forum has set itself the objective of achieving a modal share of 16% by 2030. In the previous legislature, several measures were taken to stimulate rail freight transport. The multi-annual investment plan and the multi-annual strategic investment plans set out means to improve the accessibility of seaports by rail and to adapt the rail freight corridors to the European 750 meter standard. Under the law of 5 May 2017 on aid to combined and distributed transport, more than €13 million will be awarded annually in the period 2017-2020 to promote both forms of sustainable rail transport. Infrabel is also currently working on improving train and resource management, which should lead to an increase in available freight capacity. According to Infrabel, an increase in traffic is certainly feasible, but it is already difficult to make concrete assessments as these depend on the routes used and the transport plans of existing customers, and on their wishes. It is up to the next government to set the objectives for the coming years, as well as the modalities and priorities for achieving them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In the meantime, I have received the table of figures, for which I am grateful. I have heard you say that people will drive more efficiently. I would like to add a small remark, pecking at what Mr Raskin has just said. I would like to insist that we do something about the reactivation of the Iron Rhine route. Now you drive along the Montzenroute, which is 55 kilometers longer and has different altitudes. That's gonna cost a lot more than that. That's a very important dilation. With two or three annual meetings, where the structures have to be laid down first, and the consultation with the Netherlands still has to be verified, I do not expect a train to run quickly on the IJzeren Rijnroute. I hope that will be put to the maximum.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u47	Minister, last July, the press echoed an audit report commissioned by Infrabel. This report has caused a great deal of confusion not only among the Members of Parliament but also among the citizens. Indeed, according to the report, unchanged allocation – this element is very important – thirteen lines should be closed, for lack of means for their maintenance. Of these thirteen lines, twelve are located in Wallonia. This report is not really a surprise. Indeed, the management of Infrabel, who had been invited to this commission (at the time called the Infrastructure Commission) on 14 March 2018, had unequivocally mentioned this risk by saying: "As early as 2021, it will be essential to raise the level of investment devoted to maintaining capacity, otherwise some lines might no longer be exploitable." It happens that the savings that were realized under the previous legislature, especially at the level of Infrabel, have mainly affected Wallonia. However, since 2013 and the study of the École polytechnique de Lausanne, it is known that the needs for infrastructure renewal are mainly located in the Walloon Region. We must be able to maintain an offer and ensure equal treatment at the level of public service, whether in Wallonia, Flanders or Brussels, especially since we are today facing the challenge of global warming. I note here that the policy statements of the Regions rightly give an important place to this global and societal challenge. So it's certainly not time to delete lines. On the contrary, we must reinvest in the latter. Of course, at the time, other press articles were published. Water has sunk under the bridges since then. There was a little controversy about the inside flight from where this element would come from. I will speak for a moment about my region where on lines 132 and 134, Infrabel is in the process of carrying out important works with a work of art on line 134 between Mariembourg and Couvin. The line is completely redone. It would obviously make no sense to invest some EUR 25 million and then close it. Minister, I come to my questions. Has this audit report been made public? Can Parliament have that? Do you confirm that the savings imposed under this Parliament have been a problem in the capacity of railway infrastructure in Wallonia? Do you share the conclusions of this report, namely that it is absolutely necessary to reinvest in the rail network in all regions but in particular in Wallonia under the current legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u48	Mr President, my question concerns the abolition of a railway line in Flanders. Perhaps it is a comfort to you that trains will not only be abolished in Wallonia; we too will suffer. Minister, this question concerns in particular the closure of line 82, Aalst-Burst. Recently there was considerable investment in infrastructure related to that line, but at the end of July Mr Lallemand van Infrabel, who was apparently very active during that period, threatened to close it. For us this means not only turning back the clock, but it is also an example of immobilising an important group of commuters from the Aalwestern region and indicating a clear lack of vision. Aalst is a city that already has a fairly large traffic congestion. Line 82 is now an important link, especially for school children. The train hours are attuned to school hours. If, instead of abolishing this line, it were to increase its frequency, it would not only be of interest to young people at school, but would also be a considerable added value for commuters shopping in the Aalster city centre or for employees in Aalst or in the industrial area of Erpe-Mere. The possible closure seems to me to turn the world upside down, as the infrastructure is in place and there has already been considerable investment in this area. However, in these times, marked by climate objectives, we should make the reverse movement and optimise the train connection on this line. Mr President, have you had contact with Mr Lallemand about the future of line 82, which, by the way, is the shortest line in the country with its ten kilometres? If not, do you intend to discuss this with Mr Lallemand in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u49	Minister, a note from Infrabel predicting the disappearance of 13 traffic lines – 12 of them in Wallonia – filtered into the press. The reason for these deletions would be a cruel lack of resources that prevents Infrabel from investing in the maintenance of railway tracks, catenaries and signalling facilities on these lines. One of the lines threatened with closure is line 94 linking the Froyennes stop to the French border. Minister, can you give me more information on the status of the discussions with Infrabel following this alarming report? What exactly is the status of this case? Is Froyennes' arrest well threatened with closure? Can you tell me how many commuters used this line 94 per day in 2018 and the first half of 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u50	Colleagues, Infrabel commissioned a study by Swiss experts to assess the state of the network, as she had done a decade ago – with the same comments at the time. This technical document is intended to inform the choices that may be made for the future. I do not have this report, unlike the administrators. I would like to correct some of what has been published in the press about this evaluation. Over the past five years, SNCB and Infrabel have received EUR 13.7 billion in public funding. In 2017, remember, I proposed to the federal government to add another EUR 1 billion, the so-called "virtuous" billion for strategic projects across the country. With this additional billion, dozens of projects and priority projects in the rail sector are being carried out and studies are under way. Through the act passed in the federal Parliament unanimously, which aims to sustain the financing of this billion, I have ensured that the integrity of the entire railway network is maintained. For example, Article 3 of this law clearly ensures the maintenance of the operation and state of the rail network until at least 2031. The article states that the parties undertake to ensure the maintenance of the entire network, in particular for low-density lines, without the removal of any kilometre of railway line necessary for traffic. The legislator therefore wished to be clear on this point: closure of the lines is not legally possible, at least until 2031. Currently, the federal government is in day-to-day business and is therefore unable to commit budget to new rail projects. It would be imprudent to speak about the period after 2031. However, I myself have repeatedly expressed the wish that the forthcoming government would release an amount of EUR 1 billion in order to make the rail network more sustainable and expand in the longer term. I have no doubt that the future government's partners, like me, have heard the voter's call for sustainable mobility and adequate investment in public transport. For data on line 94, you will find them in the "counting" section of the SNCB website.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that this report is not available to the government or Parliament. However, in your last policy note, you indicated: "Infrabel will deliver an inventory of the network at the end of 2019." It would therefore be interesting to read the report. During the order of business, prior to your arrival, Minister, we have expressed our intention to meet with the CEOs of Infrabel and SNCB. On this occasion, we could discuss topics such as the one we are currently dealing with. With regard to the impact of the economies decided upon, Infrabel had sounded the alarm several times, recalling that a saving of two billion would lead to a lack of money to maintain the lines. That is why I believe that investment in this sector is necessary. Moreover, this is perfectly in line with efforts in terms of sustainable development and the fight against global warming. In short, I believe that everyone here shares your conclusion: we must invest and reinvest in the rail sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u52	Mr President, I largely follow your conclusion. This is a concern that we indeed share. Minister, there can be no intention of closing down railway lines. It would be good to wake up, if necessary, the public enterprises concerned, Infrabel and SNCB, and to get them around the table as soon as possible for a serious discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u53	Mr President, I agree with you. Like all of us here, I stress the social, ecological and economic importance of rail transport, and in particular on a cross-border level. The city of Tournai is a pillar of the Eurométropole Lille-Courtrai-Tournai and should therefore benefit from a high-quality, efficient and locked rail link, in particular to Lille, which is the other pillar city of the Eurométropole, on the French side. We are in touch with you, if we can find additional means. Instead of tightening the rail supply, we find it necessary to consider new development projects, such as the reopening of the Blandain railway station, which is located near the economic zoning of Tournai West. Tournai Station is the 27th most used railway station in Belgium, with 6,455 commuters per day. I believe that it must be properly served and easily accessible for the many students who come from France to study at Saint-Luc Tournai. It would be an aberration that they find themselves on the road rather than in soft mobility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u54	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this issue was tabled this summer. Since then, weather conditions have changed a little, but I think it is important to review the events that took place during the heatwave. The month of July was marked by extreme temperatures never recorded in Belgium which caused severe disturbances on the Belgian railway network and the suppression of 19 high-speed trains. In question, the rails and catenaries that expand, making the traffic of trains difficult or impossible. As is well known, climate change events will be increasing in the coming months and years. How does Infrabel therefore intend to anticipate these repeated canicular episodes? Have you ever done any studies on the way neighbouring countries are doing things that are used to temperatures of that order?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, the 2016-2018 Federal Climate Change Adaptation Plan includes two measures for rail infrastructure: on the one hand, mapping the vulnerabilities of the rail network and, on the other, taking into account the expected effects of climate change in the long-term planning of railways. As a result of these measurements, Infrabel analyzed the critical elements, i.e., the dimensioning of drainage in the event of heavy rainfall. We have indeed had several cases of rail carried away during heavy rains, especially in areas susceptible to mud flows. Infrabel will adjust the internal drainage guidelines for renovations and new infrastructure as part of a broader set of technical guidelines for hydraulics. In addition, Infrabel takes preventive measures against the fall of trees on the railway area having an impact on rail traffic. Infrabel regularly participates in information sessions on global warming and also consults with stakeholders to determine actions to be taken. As far as rails are concerned, the technique of long welded rails is widespread on the Belgian rail network, as on the neighbouring networks of sometimes much warmer countries. I am thinking of Spain and Italy. This technique is the subject of an official sheet drawn up by the International Union of Railways (UIC). A working group to update this document is under way. Infrabel is actively involved. Since the other members of the UIC are also affected by the occurrence of exceptional heat, sharing experiences within this working group will allow us to identify the most appropriate adaptations to be made during laying and maintenance of the track, with a view to ensuring its stability in high heat. For catenarians, Infrabel provides an inventory of the cases most exposed to dilation effects. Then, like the actions undertaken for the railway networks of neighbouring countries, for each case the catenary will be equipped with specific insulators or insulation ducts. Whether it is for catenaries or for lanes, Infrabel uses the same materials as those used by neighbouring networks. I'm opening a parenthesis. I saw that, in another country, they had been testing white-painted rails this summer in order to reduce the absorption of light rays. I think it was in Germany. We do not have the conclusions of this test. I guess the UIC will receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u56	Minister, thank you for your responses to other climate change events. I am reassured that a reflection is already under way. It is now necessary to take measures of the urgency. We are not talking about a ten-year plan, but about measures to be put in place tomorrow so that, next summer, the number of rail disruptions will decrease. It is essential to be well aware of the urgency we face. On the other hand, I also wonder what the budgets for these measures are because they will necessarily cost. I'll ask you more questions in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you a few questions. Mrs Van Hoof's 55000138C and 55000139C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u58	Mr Minister, in The Belang van Limburg, early August, there was a report about the lamentable situation in which an old railway bridge in Eigenbilzen is located. During an inspection, Railway Manager Infrabel identified serious weaknesses in the area of stability. For safety reasons it was therefore decided to close the bridge for all motorised traffic. How often was that railroad bridge inspected? How much time was there between the penultimate and the last inspection in which the deficiencies were identified? What was the result of the penultimate inspection of the bridge? Did she show any shortcomings back then? If so, did these findings lead to concrete measures at that time? Has Infrabel received any reports in the past about the poor condition of that railway bridge? Traffic is currently being rerouted through another railway bridge, a few hundred metres away. What's the condition of that bridge? When was it inspected? According to the newspaper report, the bridge would not be restored because it is part of the route of the rapid tram in the Spartacus project and would therefore eventually be demolished and replaced. Can you confirm that? What does it mean for the bridge, if the speed tram didn't get there anyway? Doesn't that mean she's still not being replaced? Finally, do you not think it is a good idea to replace the bridge at least to ensure smooth mobility nearby?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u59	Mr Raskin, security is Infrabel's top priority in every area of infrastructure management. The forelast inspection of the railway bridge was carried out on 14 October 2014. The last inspection was carried out on 6 August 2019. The frequency of inspections of railway bridges on out-of-service lines is six years. During the last inspection rust formation was detected but without immediate danger to the stability of the bridge. On the basis of the conclusions of the inspection in 2014 and in view of the Spartacus project, no concrete measures had to be taken. Infrabel has not received any reports of the condition of the bridge in the past. The last inspection of the other railway bridge was also carried out on 6 August 2019. The evaluation of that inspection is currently under way. The old railway bridge in Eigenbilzen can no longer be repaired and must therefore be demolished. If necessary, the bridge will have to be rebuilt as part of the Spartacus project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u60	Minister, the answer was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u61	Mr President, Minister, the resumption of the RER infrastructure work between Brussels and Nivelles was started in February this year until 2025. This announcement is excellent news for commuters already using the 124 line but also for all those waiting for the RER to abandon their car and thus participate in the necessary congestion control of Brussels. As part of this work, Infrabel asked SNCB to change the train schedule for certain municipalities. Thus, the last two S1 trains on the Antwerp-Central – Brussels-Midi – Charleroi-Sud line are now diverted on working days and no longer stop in Forest-Est, Uccle-Stalle, Uccle-Calevoet, Linkebeek, Holleken, Rhode-Saint-Genèse, De Hoek, Waterloo, Braine-l'Alleud, Lillois, Nivelles and Obaix-Buzet. From Monday to Friday, the last train departs from the Brussels-Central station to these stations at 10:14 p.m., instead of 00:24 p.m. This limitation would last until 2023. This means that during all these years, the inhabitants of these communes, including my own, Rhode-Saint-Genèse, will no longer be able to use the train to return home after enjoying the social and cultural life of Brussels in the evening. They will either have to abandon these trips or move towards more expensive but also less environmentally friendly modes of transport. On 5 February, the local council of Rhode-Saint-Genèse sent a motion to you, as well as to the management of Infrabel and SNCB, asking you to organize a working meeting with the communes concerned in order to discuss the planning of the planned work. Minister, what meetings have been held or are planned to ensure proper follow-up to this motion? What will be the agenda and the actors around the table (transport operators, municipalities, etc.)( )? Are you able to ensure that the schedule adjustment applies only to periods during which the line will actually be under construction? Given the current status of the file, permits, pending appeals and ongoing work, how long do you think this adjusted schedule will be maintained? Finally, what alternatives do SNCB and other transport operators use for private evening train commuters? The track of a bus between Brussels and Nivelles has already been ruled out by the SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u62	Mr President, dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that at the end of January 2019, in the commune of Rhode-Saint-Genèse with the province of Flemish Brabant, a Frequently Asked Questions was organised as part of the relaunch of the RER work on the Brussels-Nivelles railway line on Flemish territory. The work essential for the development of the RER does have an impact on the supply of trains. At Rhode-Saint-Genèse, the last train from Brussels to Rhode-Saint-Genèse leaves Brussels at 22:14. This adaptation is planned until 2023. Some construction sites can only be carried out when no train is running. To limit as much as possible a possible negative impact on ordinary rail traffic and in order to guarantee the safety of the staff working, this work is planned on weekends or at night between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. when the traffic is completely interrupted. In order to make this possible, given the magnitude of the time range of train service on line 124, it was necessary to abolish the 1994 and 1995 trains – i.e. those leaving at 11:24 p.m. and 0:24 a.m. from Brussels-Midi to Nivelles. The SNCB has explored the bus track, but such a journey between Brussels-Midi and Rhode-Saint-Genèse takes 51 minutes compared to 14 minutes by train. Passengers on the 1994 train may opt for the TECs on the W line, the last departure to Brussels-Midi takes place at 11:13 p.m. and reaches Rhode-Saint-Genèse at 11:40 p.m. Moreover, it is curious to note that none of the public transport operators whose vehicles have a low capacity have chosen to offer relations between Rhode-Saint-Genèse and Brussels after 11.15 p.m., whereas this is expected from a railway undertaking whose vehicles can accommodate several hundred people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that other transport companies should have been involved in the search for alternatives for the benefit of late commuters. For my part, I would like to know what initiatives the operators have taken, both in the Brussels region and in Flanders – given the particular situation of Rhode-Saint-Genèse. While thanking you, I strongly stress the need to inform local residents of the change in schedules. In municipalities close to mine, such as Waterloo, people complain about the work as much as they complain about the lack of information about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u64	Minister, Ninove's station environment has been in need of renewal for several years. The monumental station of architect De Cluysenaer was unfortunately demolished in 1977, one day before it would be protected as a monument. In the meantime, the building that was built in 1978 has had its best time. In 2001, SNCB announced plans for the construction of a completely new station, with the planned start of the works in 2016. The new local management team recently indicated that the redevelopment of the station square and the renewal of the reception infrastructure are a policy priority for it. Firstly, what are SNCB's plans for the construction of the new railway station in Ninove? What is the status of the project? From when is the realization foreseen? Secondly, when was the last consultation between SNCB and the Ninoof city administration? Has there been any consultation on the reception infrastructure since October 2018 or since the renewal of the management team? Thirdly, is SNCB prepared to invest in the reconstruction of the station environment, the reception infrastructure and the station square in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u65	Mr Roggeman, the SNCB and the city of Ninove have regularly discussed the station environment in Ninove. The focus is currently on parking policy and the reconstruction of the station square. At the meeting held by SNCB and the city in September, it was agreed that the station parking should be installed in the station environment as best as possible. The parking P2 remains the best option. SNCB wants to maintain the target date of autumn 2020, in order to make it payable by then. The city and SNCB also consider the possibility of setting up part of the P2 car park as a neighborhood car park for the neighbors. SNCB does not plan to renew the station building in the short term, but does plan maintenance and repair work. The platform infrastructure, on the other hand, can be renewed. In the medium term, SNCB wishes to develop, together with the city and Infrabel, a common vision of the station environment, the square, the possible abolition of the road and the further modernisation of station infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Making a parking fee is a decision with a major impact on mobility in general and certainly for a medium-sized city like Ninove. I therefore hope that this possible decision will be preceded by thorough consultation with local government. For the renewal of the station building itself, I understand that there are no plans for the time being. Your predecessor, Minister Galant, has chosen to take office in the mega-projects of station renewal. The megalomaniac projects were, in my opinion, rightly taken out. However, we must make sure that we do not waste time. The station building in question will be half a century old. Qualitative reception infrastructure is also of particular importance in medium-sized cities and municipalities for the provision of modern train traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u67	Minister, the FPS Mobility recently confirmed that FlixTrain has applied to enter the rail passenger transport market through open access from 2021. For the first time since 1958, private railway companies will be transporting passengers on our national network. That requires some practical intervention. For example, according to the European Directive, there is a need for common information and ticketing systems. All railway undertakings should also make certain data available for the development of apps and so on. The Rail Codex requires that a minimum access package be provided, including access to passenger stations, marshalling stations, training stations, maintenance facilities. In addition, companies may apply for additional or support services. I have the following questions, Minister. How will Infrabel and SNCB cooperate with FlixTrain with a view to establishing common information and ticketing systems? What physical adjustments will be made at the passenger stations along the route of the application, in particular the Brussels-Central, Brussels-South and Bergen stations? Will FlixTrain be able to set up its own desks and staff rooms there? Will FlixTrain be able to install its own marketing equipment and vending machines? What other measures are envisaged? How is FlixTrain's non-discriminatory access to the network and stations guaranteed, as required by law? Can the Stations Executive Board or the Subsections be regarded as independent operators of service facilities within the meaning of Article 9 (3) of the Railway Codex? Is there a need for additional structural reforms? Has FlixTrain applied for the use of additional or support services as defined by the Rail Codex? If so, which one? Has the supervisory body started an investigation into the impact of the application on the economic equilibrium of the public service contract, or is it not necessary, given the context? If such an investigation is initiated, by what date should the supervisory body report any market disturbance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u68	Dear colleague, according to the Railway Transport Regulation and the operation of the Brussels National Airport, on 20 June 2019 FlixTrain expressed its intention to provide a rail passenger transport service with effect from 1 January 2021. That information was also communicated to SNCB and Infrabel. On the basis of the notification form, it appears that FlixTrain does not intend to act as a railway undertaking, but as a recognised candidate, by calling on a railway undertaking to provide the intended transport service. Like any railway undertaking, FlixTrain, in application of Article 9 of the Rail Codex, has the possibility to apply to the Autonomous Division of Rail Related Services to obtain an area in the station for a ticketing machine or a ticket counter and to access other services offered, such as the inclusion of its timetable in the yellow timetable posters, the possibility to post yard information, assistance to less mobile passengers, the announcements of passenger information via the loudspeakers and via electronic screens in the station and/or on the platforms. On the basis of that provision, SNCB must grant access to the infrastructure concerned to all railway undertakings requesting it in a non-discriminatory manner. However, this does not mean that access must be granted automatically. For example, in the case of an application for access to vending machines, SNCB may refuse access if applicants can install their own vending machines under reasonable conditions. The conditions of access to the stations are set out in the reference document "Access to passenger stations', published on the SNCB website. Rail Related Services are a regulated offering of existing services. It is up to each applicant railway undertaking to decide for itself which RRS services it will use. FlixTrain has so far only expressed its intention to provide a rail passenger transport service from 1 January 2021. The Autonomous Department of Rail Related Services has a duty of discretion. The confidentiality of the information has also been imposed by the Railway Transport Regulatory Service and the operation of the Brussels-National Airport. Only FlixTrain can communicate about that. According to Article 62 of the Rail Codex, until 19 July 2019 the Regulatory Service could be asked to carry out an economic balance check. However, no such request was made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I am still a little hungry. I understand that a whole procedure needs to be set in motion and that this takes time. However, the entry of a private player on our rail network is a big step that comes with a lot of attention. I therefore hope that this can be done correctly. In view of the procedures and the elements that FlixTrain can claim, we must be able to guarantee fair competitive access.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament 55000220C by Mrs Vanessa Matz will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u71	Minister, this summer, our country has once again faced a wave of cable flights along the railway tracks. This results in significant costs for repairs but, above all, delays that are increasingly unacceptable to travellers. Infrabel's agents multiply night services to perform the necessary repairs, over and over again. Several months ago, you announced in the Infrastructure Committee that road concrete was one of the structural measures chosen to combat this scourge. At the time, 18 kilometres had already been completed, amounting to 7,000 euros per kilometre. Minister, as far as cable theft is concerned, can you tell us the total number of events reported in 2019 and whether this is a rise or not compared to the previous year? Can you also tell us the number of trains affected by this phenomenon? Do you already have an estimate of the total injury to date? Is the concreteing of cables still up to date? If so, how many kilometres have been achieved to date and what is the planning for the coming months? Can you confirm the average amount of 7,000 euros per kilometre?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u72	Dear colleague, Infrabel is indeed once again confronted with an upsurge in cable flights. There were already 137 cases in the first half of 2019 – five times more than last year! – at a cost of more than 2 million euros. Unfortunately, the phenomenon has worsened during the summer months, without being able to be contained. Faced with this scourge, Infrabel's teams worked hard day after day to restore the network and limit the impact of the flights on rail users. In parallel with these extensive operations of repairing the infrastructure following the flights, various solutions have been tested by Infrabel to stem the phenomenon such as concrete placement or the replacement of copper with aluminium where possible. Other solutions are also tested, but confidentially. I can confirm the cost you're referring to. The average amount is 7,000 euros per replacement kilometre. I can also tell you that 32 kilometres of hoses have already been concreted in places that have been the subject of repeated flights and that the initiative remains relevant. The use of drones to monitor the network is under consideration, but technical and legal challenges remain, particularly with regard to the use of unmanned night drones.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u73	Mr Minister, thank you for this state of affairs. We will continue to be vigilant about this issue. One realizes that a five-fold increase means that such flights are unfortunately still likely to occur in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u74	Question No 55000224C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 55000318C by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke are transformed into written questions. Question No 55000285C by Mr Eric Thiébaut is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u75	Mr President, Minister, for several months now there has been a growing number of scooters or other electric unicycles in our cities. While this, of course, has many advantages in terms of mobility, the dangers posed by this type of equipment, particularly to users, should not be overlooked. In many hospitals across the country, there is an increasing number of traumas, especially at the skull level, related to their use. According to many medical witnesses, only a small portion of the injured were wearing helmets at the time of their accident. The observation is the same in all the countries of Europe, which has prompted several of our neighbours to open the debate on the obligation to wear helmets when travelling with these modes of locomotion. Minister, would you consider it appropriate to legislate in this direction? What arguments do you think should weigh in the balance in such a debate? In general, what is your analysis of the significant change in the number of two wheels or electric monowheels in our streets? There have been legislative developments in this area in recent months, but in the face of more or less serious accidents, do you think that further decisions should be taken in the short or medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motorised transport equipment of which electric scooters are part has been a growing success since the availability of self-service electric scooters in urban centres by several operators. More intensive use of these vehicles has the effect of increasing the number of accidents involving these modes of travel. This is indeed a worrying phenomenon. However, prior to the adoption of measures to provide better protection for the users of such equipment, it seems necessary to analyse in detail the context, causes and consequences of accidents in order to define the most relevant actions to be taken. To this end, I await the conclusions of several Belgian studies on these modes of travel. Firstly, a study will be carried out by the Vias Institute, Risky before of users of personal e-transporters, and another on micro-mobility, which will be followed by the Mobility and Transport FPS and the Plan Bureau. A study conducted by Brussels Mobility, aimed at objectiveising the situation of scooters, with about 1,200 users interviewed, has just been published. It appears that wearing helmets is a rare practice for shared scooter users, while almost half of the owner users wear helmets. In view of the above and the fact that the issue has also been addressed at European level and will be discussed in the High Level Group on Road Safety at the beginning of October, I am of the opinion that it is still too early to decide on the mandatory wearing of the bicycle helmet or on any other measure aimed at users of the mobility equipment, especially since this could have the effect of seriously curbing or even stopping the system of scooters in free sharing. It may also be interesting to see if there are differences in risk and behaviour between users of free-sharing scooters and those using their own scooters. I would add that there is nothing to prevent users of travel devices from wearing helmets or any other means of protection on their own initiative. In addition, during recent information and awareness-raising campaigns on travel devices, it was pointed out that the wearing of the helmet is highly recommended. The compilation of statistics on new equipment is completely impossible since, apart from speed pedalecs, all other equipment is of free use, without registration. Perhaps we should go to the suppliers. However, as many things are bought on the Internet, I think that many of these devices arrive by post and that it is impossible to identify them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u77	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is evident that all this is in the early stages. In fact, the commissioned studies have not yet made it possible to obtain a more precise picture of the issue. I look forward, of course, to the conclusions of the Vias study on this subject. The safety of users is of paramount importance to me. I think she is in everyone's eyes. This will need to be continued in the future, and legislation may be needed. In the absence of legislation, it would be necessary to communicate; a prevention and awareness campaign would be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u78	Questions No 55000330C and No 55000331C by Mrs Sarah Schlitz are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u79	Mr Minister, as you may know, I come back to the problem of improving the journey time on line 162 between Luxembourg, Arlon, Jemelle and Brussels. I was hoping very much for the legislature that ended a few months ago. Five years ago, I had indeed participated in a meeting with Infrabel's management who had given me a presentation on investment plans, and I was very optimistic. Unfortunately, last spring I was able to attend again, in Libramont, a presentation from the management of Infrabel. I then realized that what they said in 2019 was exactly the same as what they told us in 2014, but with different dates. I also realized that we could only hope for an improvement in travel time between Arlon and Brussels after 2027. Minister, I have a few questions for you. How is it that, when I left the federal Parliament in 2014, this project seemed close to implementation, and that today it is being postponed to 2027? What are the reasons for this postponement? Are problems of coordination between SNCB and Infrabel the cause of this failure, which once again falls on commuters? You know the Grand Duchy is close to us. That is why I spoke about Luxembourg, because our Luxembourg friends – I say our friends, because they are yours as well as mine – also insist and look forward to the improvement of this line 162 to reduce travel time between Luxembourg, Arlon and Brussels. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u80	Mr Arens, you know all the interest I have in this line. The project to modernise axis 3 represents a journey of about 175 km which is carried out in several phases, in order to limit to the maximum the nuisances generated by this important construction site. In this context, and since the end of 2014, it has been announced that the expansion of this project and the analysis of the planning that I have requested – real planning and not the one that pleases the ears – foresee the completion of the work in 2027. But it's like a home, Mr. Arens, you're not waiting for the hedge to grow, for the fence to be laid, for everything to be finished before you live in it. By then, things will have improved well. There will be no further postponement. In any case, there is no reason why there should still be carry-overs. Furthermore, it may be noted that since May 2019, for example, the reference speed of 130 km/h has been increased to 160 km/h between Ciney and Namur, which has saved about six minutes. The expansion of the project and the resulting new work schedule are justified in particular by the expansion of the scope. I asked that the 25,000 V go to Namur and that the ETCS be placed simultaneously, which caused difficulties. There have also been difficulties in obtaining certain town planning permits and the impact of the cuts on other works, for example for the RER on line 161. For your good information, Infrabel regularly organises coordination meetings to maximize collaboration with railway undertakings and specifically SNCB. I still have to explain to you that during 2017, the CFISS changed the safety rules during track work. Previously, you could move on one track when you were working on the other. Now, you can no longer move on one track when you work on the other, which has also changed the situation a little bit. As far as your last question is concerned, I should like to make it clear that the decisions taken by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg also affect the offer, in particular with regard to the implementation of the ETCS which they have anticipated by one year and which results in the impact of Belgian rail vehicles. I have read that there is also a great concern on the French side since the traffic will be completely interrupted within a few months. At the supply level, SNCB and CFLs meet two to three times a year in technical meetings related to schedules, but also two to three times a year, at the technical level, for the organisation of rolling stock rotation and the performance of driving agents. In addition, there is a meeting every six months at the management level to share the progress in the various projects that affect both companies. A bilateral working group composed of representatives of administrations, railway operators and infrastructure managers meets regularly, in particular to follow up on the letter of intent on strengthening railway cooperation between the two countries, the equipment of SNCB rolling stock in ETCS and the impact on passenger supply following the introduction of the Memor II+ system in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg at the end of 2019. I would also like to tell you, Mr Arens, that when I came to the responsibilities, I received very fluctuating dates. I didn't want it anymore. I wanted to have a specific schedule. I prefer to announce color than to say pleasant things like announcing an end in 2020. No, it'll be over in 2027. The journey time that will be possible at that time will be two hours and two or three minutes, from Brussels to Luxembourg, whereas today we must be close to three hours. That's what I could tell you. In the near future, major construction projects will begin, including Grupont and Libramont. You'll be the witness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I know perfectly well that you know this line wonderfully and that, even before you became a member of the government, you have always fought for better travel time on it. I also thank you, Minister, for demanding a real schedule. Indeed, we have been told for years an increase in the speed of trains on this line. Thirty or forty years ago, we were told about the pendulum, then called "Pendolino". We're almost here in 2020, and it still takes – as you say – almost three hours to get from Luxembourg to Brussels. This is totally unacceptable. I know that the government in day-to-day business cannot make big decisions, but in the context of climate-friendly initiatives, I really insist that everything be done to invest heavily in public transport. One of the ones that, in my opinion, is the least polluting is the railway. That is why I am counting on you and I hope that you will remain in place, since you are very familiar with the file. In this way, we will be able to complete this work with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u82	Mr President, Minister, the press reported in mid-July the tensions between SNCB and Infrabel. The former wished to put more trains on certain lines and was hampered by the lack of coordination of the latter's work. SNCB would like to add trains on some routes but "we often know far too late what work is planned," says its spokesman, adding: "Infrabel does not do enough concert, we are too often faced with the fait accompli." The infrastructure company says it does not understand this criticism and believes that there is enough dialogue. "Most of the time, SNCB knows six months to one year in advance where we are going to do work, except when we need to intervene urgently and unexpectedly," it is answered. With Thalys, Eurostar and a number of rail freight operators in particular, SNCB sent a letter to Infrabel requesting the creation of the coordination mechanism provided for by the law. What is certain is that the lack of coordination between Infrabel and railway operators falls directly on commuters. Minister, I think I heard you say that you were in favour of a rapprochement between Infrabel and SNCB. Today, I would like to know: what are the facts? Whose fault is it? Have operators received a response from Infrabel to their mail? Will you intervene to speed up the establishment of the consultation body provided for in the law, or to bring these two entities together?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u83	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat what Mr Arens said about the bickering between SNCB and Infrabel, but it is clear, as it turned out last summer, that the company responsible for laying the tracks does not communicate with the company responsible for driving the trains. That's very unfortunate. Mr President, in view of the conflicting stories of the past summer, which Mr Arens also mentioned, can you clarify where things have gone wrong? What initiatives have you taken in the short term to defuse the tense relationship between SNCB and Infrabel and to ensure that the passenger service will be least affected by this autumn? Why should there be two weeks on the announcement of the nuisance and the time when passengers are informed about which trains and routes exactly? Can you give an overview of the different structural consultations between SNCB and Infrabel? How often do they get together? Who's there? Is it possible that certain crucial works will not be communicated at such a consultation, as SNCB claims? What is the state of play with regard to the statutory coordination body? In a response to the news coverage last summer, you said that it should be possible to talk again about a merger between the two companies. Have you taken any initiatives in this respect? Can you confirm that a merger between Infrabel and SNCB would not be in breach of European rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u84	Mr President, Minister, I am also concerned about the cooperation between the two railway companies in connection with the reports on various conflicts between Infrabel and SNCB during the summer. In order to ensure that passengers do not suffer from the conflicts between the two companies, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, is the news that there is tension between Infrabel and SNCB on the planning of infrastructure? Secondly, was the legally defined coordination body established? If not, why not? Thirdly, what steps will you take to ensure that the traveller is not the victim of the dispute?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u85	Mr President, Infrabel informs me that in the context of capacity management, all appropriate measures are taken to ensure the smooth running of the works and regular meetings are organised with the railway undertakings to analyse together the adjustments to train services during the execution of the works. In concrete terms, two years before the implementation of works with a major impact on capacity, railway undertakings will be informed of the various projects and plans at six-monthly meetings in May and November. The various ad hoc meetings will follow on a regular basis in order to achieve the best possible balance between all parties. Infrabel points out that sometimes, despite all efforts, it is not possible to respect the two-year deadline. The planning of the major renewal and modernisation works on the rail network is sometimes subject to changes due to unpredictable circumstances. In addition to working with a large impact on capacity, there are also works where capacity is less compromised. Its planning for the next six months shall be communicated to the railway undertaking on a monthly basis. Alternatives are proposed to the affected railway undertakings. Article 26.3 of the Rail Code transposing Directive 2012/34/EU requires Infrabel to set up a coordination mechanism between candidates, the Mobility and Transport FPS and, where relevant, other stakeholders in this sector. This coordination includes the needs of applicants for the maintenance and development of infrastructure capacities. Following the operators' mail, Infrabel informs me that she contacted each of them, in particular to explain to them that the establishment of the coordination platform was already planned. In the event of a possible merger of activities, the requirements of Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European railway area shall be complied with. I am convinced that cooperation between the transport company SNCB and the infrastructure manager Infrabel should be improved. Returning to the situation before 2005 seems difficult to me, given the European rules in force, but at the same time these European rules allow structures or platforms to be set up in order to improve cooperation and consultation. It is up to the next government to decide on this, but I do have an idea.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u86	Minister, thank you for your answers. I agree with you that the cooperation between the two structures must be very good. I think that a rapprochement – if not a merger – of the two structures is the solution. When we operated with a single structure, we didn't have all these problems. You have my full support to organize this rapprochement as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u87	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. What you mentioned also Infrabel wrote in the newspaper, following several articles about these coordination problems. The theory sounds good, but we see that the practice shows that it does not always work well. A proof of this is, of course, also your repeated statement, which I am pleased to note, that it is absolutely necessary for these two separate structures to draw closer together. You didn't say the word merger, you talked about platforms, cooperation and consultation. That's a bit of a fusion light. Nor is it entirely clear to me what exactly is possible under current EU legislation. I am pleased that you are thinking in that direction. I understand, of course, that in the current context you do not show the back of your tongue. I am glad that Mr Arens is thinking in that direction too. I can assure you that the sp.a. group is also thinking towards a greater approximation of these two different structures. Maybe we'll find each other about that in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u88	It is clear, Mr Minister, that there is tension between the network operator, who puts infrastructure and safety first, and the operator, who has every interest in providing good service to the commuters. This is not, in itself, unhealthy, but at the moment we do notice that confidence is lost and that travellers are being put at a disadvantage. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also considers it important to promote this cooperation between Infrabel and SNCB. We think communication there is the key word. We therefore regret that the coordinating body mentioned has not been set up. We therefore call on the next government to certainly set up such a body and to ensure that it has an important role to play in the future management agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u89	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Tomas Roggeman's 55000420C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u90	Minister, recently we were informed that the buffet of the Genk station was closed because the contract with the previous operator was not renewed. Since when is the buffet closed? Why wasn't the contract renewed? Is there a procedure in place to allow the operation? If so, since when? If not, why not? When does SNCB expect to complete this procedure? In other words, when can a new operator be expected? Do you share the view that a city centre is best equipped with a station with a buffet? In the station of Genk it is also recently no longer possible to use the toilets. This is the result of complaints about vandalism, drug use and other unacceptable practices. Travellers are currently referred to the toilets in the library opposite the station as an emergency solution. How many departing passengers does the station in Genk count daily on weekdays and on weekends? How has that number evolved over the past five years? The closure of the toilets, as communicated, is a temporary solution. In the long term, SNCB wants to offer health facilities again. What time-limit are we talking about here? When does SNCB intend to reopen the toilets? Closing the toilets is a drastic solution. Has SNCB considered alternative solutions? If so, what solutions has it considered? Before closing, did SNCB discuss the issue with the city of Genk and the police? If so, what was the result? How does SNCB intend to avoid similar problems once the new toilets have been opened? What solutions is she considering? Finally, do you share the view that a railway station in a city centre should have adequate sanitary facilities? Are you prepared to encourage SNCB to work out a workable solution as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u91	Minister, Mr Raskin has just mentioned it; we were told in September 2019 that the station in Genk had closed the toilets after reports of nuisance caused by, among other things, drugs, sex and vandalism. As an emergency solution, travellers were asked to go to the bathrooms in the library. The library is across the street from a very busy and not harmless job. How many reports of the above-mentioned facts were received by SNCB in 2019, where effective intervention by the local police area of CARMA was needed? Has the facts already been discussed with the city of Genk? If not, why has there been no consultation? Will that still happen? If so, what are the results of the talks? What future plans does SNCB have with the station of Genk, in particular with regard to the problem of sanitary installations? Are there similar problems in other cities and stations known? What measures have been taken there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for SNCB, shops and other services in the stations, such as a buffet, can contribute to the attractiveness of the train as a means of transport. SNCB, as a public undertaking, is obliged to question the market before concluding a new eight-year concession contract and to treat all candidates on an equal footing. This was also the case for the station of Genk, where the previous concession contract ended on 31 August 2019. SNCB has now completed the selection procedure for the concession of the station buffet in Genk and let me know that on 1 November 2019 a new concession contract will start for eight years. As far as the sanitary facilities at Genk station are concerned, SNCB lets me know that she researched a lot of slopes to counter vandalism. Staff were deployed on site; additional monitoring was carried out; the key to the plumbing was only available at the counters; the opening hours were restricted; the room giving access to the plumbing was adapted; supervision was organised with the help of the Fietspunt. The number of times the local police have had to intervene should be requested from my colleague responsible for the Interior. Unfortunately, nothing has been sufficiently helpful and the temporary closure was therefore the last resort for SNCB. The decision was taken in consultation with the local government. SNCB confirms to me that she is convinced that a station in a city like Genk must have plumbing. On a weekday in October 2018, SNCB counted 1,214 passengers at the station of Genk. On Saturday she counted 774 and on Sunday 1,513. Compared to five years ago, SNCB had about 2% more travellers. SNCB therefore considers that the sooner a solution is found, in consultation with the local government, so that the plumbing at Genk station can be reopened, the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. May I conclude from your reply that you are not aware of any concrete results of the discussions between SNCB and the local government? I hear they share the concern, but I do not hear anything about the content of the talks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u94	This is a general problem that is encountered at all stations: who should manage the security of access to the toilets? Remember the station of Tournai. This phenomenon is really general. We are forbidden to place cameras in the toilet, which is logical, of course. But it's also forbidden at the entrance to the toilet, and it's really a problem. Toilets become places of disrespect. Sometimes, as a Belgian minister, I am embarrassed about what is happening on our roads, highways and railway stations at this level. Cross the border, and whether you are in Germany, Holland or France, you will have unguarded toilets that are clean and respected. What must be done to ensure that this is the case in Belgium? I don't know. If you have the solution, you have to give it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u95	Minister, I share your degeneration, especially when compared to the surrounding countries. This has something to do with the mentality, which is absolutely wrong. In any case, I do not hear about the state of play of the talks with the local government. So I take it you're not aware of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u96	Mr Raskin, I can tell you that there is no solution, no one knows. That's basically what it's all about. Reference is made first of all to the consultations that would have taken place with the local government, which, when it heard about the facts, first fell out of the sky. I can assume that consultations have taken place in the meantime. People are coming here to tell us that the sooner the problem is solved, the better. That seems to me to be a bit weedy, but the Minister does not answer in concrete terms how this should be done. I hear that there is also a similar problem in other stations. What measures have been taken there? I take it that's where the problem finally got solved? So I'm still hungry for solutions. In my view, the fact that the key must be asked at the point of contact or that opening hours are limited is not a structural solution for the traveller who urgently needs to go to the toilet. I do not hear structural solutions here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u97	Questions Nos 55000424C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Nos 55000425C and 55000426C by Mrs Sarah Schlitz are transformed into written questions. Question No 55000474 by Mr Eric Thiébaut is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u98	Mr President, Minister, on Saturday, September 14, 2019, the municipalities of Molenbeek and Koekelberg saw and, above all, heard planes passing by their eyes and ears. While we understand that this situation is primarily due to special weather conditions, it is nevertheless unbearable given the density of population and housing in this part of Brussels. In addition, these two municipalities are uniquely among the four most densely populated out of the 581 that make up our country. In other words, the low-altitude flight over Koekelberg and Molenbeek impacts a disproportionate number of citizens. Even if this is not usual, it is imperative, Minister, to seek to reduce these noise nuisances for as many people as possible. Therefore, let me ask you the following questions. Is this situation likely to happen again? Do you intend to charge your administration or skeyes with finding an alternative to flying over Koekelberg and Molenbeek at low altitude if similar weather conditions still occur?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u99	Minister, during the previous legislature, the airport issue in this committee was a very much discussed issue. Unfortunately, the problems relating to noise have not been solved, even though we are in another legislature. The long-awaited report of the Paris study agency Envisa is now ready. That report repeatedly states that it is now up to the politicians to make decisions. Minister, you have always waited for that report before taking decisions and measures. The report is now before us, with findings and conclusions. What keeps me from sleeping specifically and sometimes literally is the unfair distribution of the nuisance, in the sense that the region around Haacht, as a result of the Leuven Straight route, has to bear very excessive burdens that were previously spread. I insist that this is an earlier unjust measure that you must resolve quickly. In the past, I have mentioned this before, and we have discussed it on a number of occasions. Minister, you have not yet managed to transfer that hot potato to the next government by dragging the government's negotiations. That is why I would once again like to put the following questions to you. Now that the report is before you, what conclusions do you draw regarding Leuven Straight ahead? What will you do to solve the problem of Leuven Straight ahead? Will you take any initiative at all? I assume you will refer to the fact that the government is in current cases, so that you cannot take any new measures. However, I would have liked to hear from you what conclusions you draw from that report, including with regard to Leuven Straight ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation experienced by the inhabitants of the municipalities of Molenbeek and Koebelberg on 14 September 2019 was indeed exceptional, and in many ways. First, because of the unavailability of a BUB navigation beacon "Brussels VOR" for maintenance work, which required the temporary implementation of a contingency landing procedure, i.e. emergency landing. This procedure is similar to that used during the work at Brussels airport in the summer of 2016 and during the first maintenance work for the BUB navigation beacon at the end of autumn 2018. Second, the weather conditions were particularly unfavourable. Due to strong wind, the current runway use system (PRS) was not applied. Third, since September 16, 2019, work on the BUB tag has been completed and the tag has been reactivated. The use of the landing procedure was therefore stopped immediately and the usual procedures were resumed thanks to the availability of the BUB beacon. That brings me to Mrs Jiroflée's question. As you point out, the Envisa report is an excellent basis on which the forthcoming government agreement should base itself and inspire itself to implement an equal and sustainable solution, both for local residents and for the economic, social and operational actors of Brussels National Airport. You know that I have put forward a concrete plan. Unfortunately, this government is in current cases and cannot be dealt with further. The Envisa study sheds new light on the problem of overflights and underlines the role of policy and institutions in the situation that has been going on to date. This study strengthens me in the idea that the problem needs to be solved jointly and simultaneously and that the opportunity should be given to the policy actors of the different policy levels, as well as to the economic, social and operational actors and to the citizens, in order to express their opinion and to work together on it. Your question about Leuven Straight forward is a legitimate question, but this also applies to the demand of many other regions. Proper and balanced distribution of noise pollution will only be possible if everyone listens to and accepts others in order to take on part of the nuisance, and if economic and operational actors agree to and implement the necessary investments for noise reduction. By the way, the Leuven Rechtdoor file is still before the Court of Appeal. I cannot, of course, express my opinion on this. I continue to rely on the capacity of all of us to take this road together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u101	Minister, you're telling us that this was exceptional. I'll take note of that. We'll see if your comments are confirmed. You did not overturn the fact that these two municipalities were among the most densely populated in Belgium. You have a responsibility to ensure a fair overflight of the areas surrounding the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u102	Mr Minister, the economic aspect of the airport does not escape me, of course. On the contrary, we are all very well aware of the advantages of proximity to the airport in the region. However, the efforts that need to be made to achieve this must be properly and fairly spread. For the umpteenth time, you are hiding behind all kinds of legal procedures that are under way. We are also aware of this, but you have been doing so for three years now. You refer again to all actors. You say you're hoping for our common sense. I wonder why, in the last three years, instead of hiding behind all these legal procedures, you have not brought everyone around the table and tried to make everyone's common sense speak. I insist that you keep pushing this file out for you. You do not seem to stop doing that in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u103	Mr President, Minister, it is striking that you have us, Kempenaars, waiting here in committee too. We are very often waiting for our train. As from 2014, I've been interrupting you on this file. Our train from Brussels to Turnhout, which has to come from Binche, is very much delayed. I've requested and received the punctuality figures from you. For the first half of 2019 it is 73 %. In addition, more than 200 trains were abolished on that route. In short, the train doesn't run half the time and when it drives, it has a huge delay. I have been asking you, since 2014, what solutions you will be working on in this regard. I have good news: I am no longer alone with my questions; several Kempen colleagues were elected and sit in Parliament. So you're still a long way from getting rid of us. Now we are much more numerous to permanently harass you on this Kempense line, until the lack of punctuality is finally resolved. I've been collecting the figures since the last legislature. In 2016 we start with a punctuality of 70 % and 500 abolished trains. In 2017, it was a punctuality of more than 60% and hundreds of abandoned trains. In 2018 we speak of 65 % and 419 abolished trains on the route. I have already quoted the figures for 2019. So my questions let themselves be guessed. What will you do to reduce the number of abandoned trains and improve punctuality? We have already provided you with concrete solutions, in particular by connecting the Turnhout-Brussels link to a more precise route, such as Halle. That is an option, but you will never agree to it. I do not know what the competent committee has been doing for years, but many solutions are certainly not forthcoming. There's no way of getting better. Soon we will get the refurbished MR75 sets pushed into our Kempense bin. We were just the Desiros, who were used as replacement material on the route. They have air conditioning on board, which those renovated pig noses don't have. I have already made this very clear from the start of the deployment of these trains. Is it true that the Desiros will disappear? In the affirmative, do you agree that this will mean a further decline in punctuality and in the number of abandoned trains? Why are the Kempen always saddled with obsolete equipment? Can you still undo the decision? What adjustments do you plan exactly for the rolling stock on the routes in the Kempen? Your predecessor had given us a little light. He had indicated that the first M7 double deckers would be delivered and would be deployed on the Kempense routes. It would be nice if you could get confirmation of that. In that case, you'd be a little bit rid of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u104	Mr President, Minister, the timetable will be adjusted annually in December. This year they are rather limited, but there will be major changes next year, which will change the equipment deployment. The new M7 vehicles to be deployed next year will also entail material adjustments. On the IC connections between Turnhout and Antwerpen and Binche respectively, it is reported that from December onwards most motor vehicles of the type AM75, the so-called pig noses, as my colleague said. These sets now ensure these connections, in addition to the Desiros, the "classics" and the M4 and M6 carriages. It is therefore five different types of equipment and this does not improve the clarity of the connection. In 2014, the Kempense commuters and local authorities strongly protested against an earlier plan to use the pig noses on these lines. The AM75s or pig noses are ten years older than me, are the most trouble-prone motor sets on the Belgian rail network and have hardly any comfort for travellers. If this took place, the Kempen would go further backwards. In addition, these obsolete pig noses are no longer suitable for long distances. Can you confirm that these outdated and trouble-sensitive pig noses will be increased on the railway lines towards the Kempen? Will the inflow of the M7 vehicles have an impact on the equipment deployment from 2020? Do you think that the AM75 type sets are still suitable for longer IC connections?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u105	Mr Minister, the Turhout-Binche line is not very punctual. For a commuter who has to get up every morning at 6.30 a.m. to get here in Brussels in time, that is a terrible situation. At a hearing held in the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises on 23 January 2019, SNCB proposed its action plan to significantly improve punctuality on the railways. That is where this rail link was rightly cited as a pain point and identified as a priority for the coming years. However, several commuters have not experienced any improvement in recent months. So I have a few questions for you. What short-term actions have already been taken in recent months to improve delays on the Turnhout-Binche line? Were these actions evaluated? What action points does SNCB propose to increase punctuality on the Turnhout-Binche line? At what time does she plan these interventions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u106	Mr. Secretary, you will meet the Kempen. After all, almost all Kempen MEPs are here, which effectively shows that this problem has been a concern for our region for a long time. The train equipment used in the Kempen is not always the best quality, to put it mildly. The punctuality has already been mentioned here. Now we have to learn that the Desiro trains that are currently in the Kempen would be replaced from December by the renovated MR75s, better known to us in the Kempen as the pig noses, not always in a positive way. The Desirostellen can increase quickly, consume less energy and often have frequent stops. They are now also used on the lines Antwerpen-Mol and Antwerpen-Turnhout and they are doing quite well there. For more than a year now, you have been waiting for the delivery of 445 new M7 trains, which may also mean an improvement in comfort for the Kempense region. Those M7s will, according to our information, run on the main axles, allowing again space for more double-deck equipment to run the M6 on our Kempense lines. Minister, like my fellow Members, I have some simple questions for you. Is the claim that the Desiro train sets will disappear? If the MR75s or pig noses get there, can they generate the same comfort? We are already afraid of reducing the number of seats and we fear that the air conditioning, which we already have almost never, will disappear completely in the Kempen. Is there anything else you can say about the new M7 sets? Where will they be deployed? Can we get the M6 sets again on the Turnhout-Binche line, so that the comfort is increased there too?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u107	Minister, our colleagues from the Kempen are looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u108	I know, Mr President. I have also visited the Kempen several times in the past year. On the IC-connection Binche-Turnhout, SNCB is currently using M7 and M4 vehicles mainly in peak hours. In the off-peak hours they mainly use Desiro's and four-part couples. It is true that the current train that runs with Desiro cars will run with AM75 equipment from December. This also applies to the Turnhout-Antwerp connection, where the number of trains using Desiro cars will decrease from 16 trains to 6 trains and more AM75 equipment will also be used. Thanks to the inflow of the M7, more M7 vehicles will be able to drive on the Turnhout-Binche IC connection from 2021 onwards. According to SNCB, the Desiros are more suitable for S and L connections than for long IC connections. The four-part couples are currently being modernised, making comfort similar to that of other types of modernised couples, such as Breaks, who also operate on IC connections. However, they will be used on the less busy IC trains. On the basis of the conclusions of the analyses of the organised task forces, several adjustments were made from February 2019. Firstly, the timetable is being adjusted. Additional minutes were added to the Binche-La Louvière route. Secondly, local planning has changed to avoid problems in Vilvoorde. Thirdly, the local signalling device is adapted in Tielen to take more account of the specificity of the IC Turnhout-Binche. According to SNCB, these measures prove to be effective. Other measures are still in study phase. I am thinking, for example, of further changes to the timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u109	Minister, did you just say "effective"? I don't believe my own ears. I have just mentioned the punctuality figures: 70 % and 200 abolished trains for the first half of this year. Last year it was about 65% and more than 400 abolished trains. I would not call such a thing effective at all! I don't know what the Kempen did to you. We are here with four representatives from the region which has half a million inhabitants. We are dependent on the train because of the saturated E34 and E313 connections. We'd like to have a punctual train connection. I really don't understand how it seems so difficult to realize this. The adjustments you quote apply to the existing route. We have already raised these problems. Most delays occur on the Walloon section of the route. The only thing that can help is a connection to a punctual connection, for example from Halle. We have already suggested this track several times and yet you continue to cycle around the hot breeze. I don't understand this. You also say that a renovated pig nose offers similar comfort. I invite you to take it yourself in the summer, without air conditioning. You'll change your mind soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u110	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On the one hand, it is good to hear that from 2021 more double-deck vehicles of the type M6 will run on the lines towards the Kempen. On the other hand, I am very sorry that the Kempian passengers will have to do it with much less comfort in the coming year. In addition, they will have to use fault-sensitive equipment. You have already confirmed this in response to a written question. We already have a line in the Kempen with a lot of incidents. If this also involves interference-sensitive equipment, this is obviously disappointing and not in the interest of the line in question on which there are already so many delays. May I ask you, however, to urge SNCB to deploy the M6 or other new vehicles on the lines to the Kempen as soon as possible? I would also like to point out that there is a lot of equipment available on weekends. It would be unlikely that we would allow occasional travellers to travel on weekends with toothed equipment, while there was a lot of new equipment standing still in the storehouse. That would be anything but advertising for public transport, on which we want to focus more and more, especially from the Kempen. My travel time this morning was three hours, so I want to stress that a strong alternative is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u111	Mr Minister, we think it is very important and urge you to give priority to routes to the Kempen and Limburg in the transport plans under discussion. A number of solutions are obvious. For the problems of the North-South link, Infrabel puts solutions on the table and we hope to be able to discuss them in committee so that we can work together to find the best possible solution. Another priority must be the doubling of the number of tracks, which are still between Turnhout and Tielen, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u112	Minister, it remains a bit of the same disappointing story. We are all invited, including in the Kempen, to come and look at new, major plans for the future, including SNCB, but in practice we see nothing. Firstly, you say that the number of Desiros on the Turnhout-Antwerp line will decrease from 16 to 6 trains, more than half a half, and you say that the other trains offer similar comforts. I don't know if you've ever taken those other trains in the summer, when there's a lot of people on them without air conditioning? That is not the same comfort, Minister. That is a qualitative decline and is no longer of this time. By telling us here that the comfort of these trains is similar, you actually laugh a bit with the passengers from the Kempen. Secondly, if I understand correctly, we will perhaps get new trains for the Turnhout-Binche line in 2021. By 2020, therefore, we will have to draw up our plan with the existing old train sets. That too as a perspective for the Kempen is very disappointing. Minister, I would like to ask you and the task force to also look at the interests of travellers in the outlying areas, not just in the big triangle. The Kempen is an area with 400,000 inhabitants, which is larger than most cities in Flanders. Those residents also have the right to high-quality public transport by train.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u113	Mr President, Minister, once again I have to refer to the end of July last year, to the moment when Infrabel once again launched a threat, this time about the opening up of the Antwerp port by rail, the so-called second port opening. The threat was, of course, addressed directly to Lineas freight company in particular and to the Port of Antwerp in a broader sense. Earlier this afternoon, the importance of using freight transport by train was discussed on several occasions, even by yourself. I therefore express my concern, and at the same time my amazement, at the approach taken by Infrabel to this threat. The port of Antwerp is the engine of our economy. For the record, you can't blame me for Antwerp's chauvinism, because I'm from across the water. The port of Antwerp is not only of great economic importance, but also an important aspect of the so-called modal shift, which has a direct impact on mobility and the environment. Mr. Secretary, have you already intervened between both parties, Lineas and Infrabel? What initiatives have you taken in the short term to normalise the relationship between all the parties concerned, given its urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u114	Mr President, Mr Infrabel informs me that she formally denies the accusations of threats to certain parties and stakeholders. As part of the preparation of a next multi-annual investment plan for the period after 2020, Infrabel has examined a number of infrastructure projects with the corresponding financial implications on the basis of its expertise as an infrastructure manager. However, it is up to the next government to decide on the size of the financial resources needed to implement such projects. As far as investment is concerned, I can be clear. The cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Regions on the strategic rail investment projects for the period 2018-2031 already includes a number of important projects for better rail clearance of the port of Antwerp, such as the realisation of the underground branching of Old Countries and the modernisation of the signalling devices of the railway bundles on the right bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u115	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I also learned later that Infrabel denied those threats. I must remind the journalist of De Tijd and former colleague of mine that he has written lies, but that is another problem. In any case, I welcome your answer that the future will show that more will be devoted to this development. You refer to the Old Countries project, but that is only a very small part in the second port opening. I am pleased that at the beginning of this session at 2 p.m., when Mr Burton and Mr Roggeman made the proposal to bring the SNCB and Mr Infrabel summit around the table, the President gave a positive answer to my question to involve Lineas. As everyone knows, the communication between the two parties is unfortunate. Lineas and Infrabel are involved in a process, by the way. The worst form of cooperation between two parties in need of each other is a process. When husband and wife are involved in a process to break up, that is the most unhealthy situation for the children. The interests here are very large and pressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u116	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Georges Dallemagne's 55000555C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u117	Minister, on 18 September, Kurt Vanhauwaert raised the alarm via an open letter on Facebook, which was shared about 1,500 times, because he feels like a third-class wheelchair user. The man complains of a general lack of interest for persons with disabilities throughout the service. Of the 454 stations there are only 41 stations where one only has to book three hours in advance. In 132 other stations you can take the train, if you book 24 hours in advance. This is still only a quarter of the total number of stations in Belgium. In the Netherlands, as from 2025, as many as 99% of all stations where the National Railways stop will be accessible. It is understandable that a reservation period is needed, especially in stations without crew, but like everyone else, we in Green believe that persons with disabilities should sometimes be able to make a last minute transfer. Also when ordering new trains, accessibility for wheelchair users was not chosen. That's what Kurt Vanhauwaert is suing. I share the concern of that man and of other travellers in the same situation. How many complaints do SNCB receive about the provision of services for persons with disabilities? Does SNCB have an action plan to improve general service provision in its stations for people with disabilities? If no, how does SNCB evaluate its own services? What efforts does SNCB plan to make more stations accessible to people with physical disabilities? What steps does SNCB take to limit the duration of pre-booking and to increase the number of stations with a short booking period? When ordering new train wagons, the so-called M7 trains, they did not opt for a reduced floor, which was the case before for the Desirostellen. Why was that choice made?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB wants its customers with reduced mobility to be able to travel by train as autonomously as possible. SNCB has therefore given priority to those investments which directly benefit its customers in the design of its current investment plan. The improvement of full accessibility and standardisation of platforms are therefore a top priority of SNCB. Unfortunately, the resources are not unlimited and not all platforms will be able to be increased. When purchasing the M7 equipment, account had to be taken of the three different platform heights in Belgium, 28, 55 and 76 cm. When assessing accessibility for persons with reduced mobility, account should be taken not only of the entry height of the carriages, but also of the slope inside the carriage. Each pair of M7 carriages will therefore contain a multifunctional carriage with a reduced door of 62 cm, which the traveller himself will be able to open, in combination with a sloping plane inside the carriage. The height of 62 cm is a compromise between 28 and 76 cm, the platform heights of about half of the platforms. Assistance for a wheelchair traveller will remain necessary, as in addition to the height difference, the horizontal opening between the platform and the train must be safely covered. In order to allow as many passengers as possible to reach the platforms easily, SNCB will increase the number of lifts in its stations from 250 to 350 in 2022 and the number of escalators from 310 to 385. Apart from these efforts, specific investments are also planned for persons with reduced mobility. SNCB continues to consult with the National High Council for Persons with Disability and remains open to dialogue and to contacts with the expert associations on disability in order to work together to improve accessibility and to develop future IT application accessible to all. By 2022, 25 additional stations will be fully accessible to persons with reduced mobility, with an average of five additional stations per year. A standard concept for the construction and renovation of the stations will now be followed, taking into account accessibility for all travellers and respecting regional, federal and European standards. The new concept to replace the classic counters was recently inaugurated in Namur. The concept was evaluated by the NHRPH. In the long term, SNCB wants all persons with reduced mobility to be able to take the train without or with as little assistance as possible. This implies full accessibility of the infrastructure and rolling stock. As that objective cannot be achieved in the short term, an assistance service for persons with reduced mobility was introduced, providing its customers with reduced mobility with a total assistance service that is not limited to assistance when boarding and exiting. For example, the staff of the contact center help to plan the trip and reserve assistance. Operational teams shall assist the passengers on the train at the station, in case of a possible transfer and from the train at the terminal. SNCB confirms to me that only in 2% of the cases no response can be given to requests for assistance in taking the train. The number of employees of the assistance service increased from 102 to 145 employees between 2014 and 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u119	Minister, I am pleased to hear that SNCB has the same concerns as the Green Group and that we all want every commuter to be able to travel independently by train, including persons with disabilities. Some of the measures you have mentioned, such as the addition of lifts and the placing of more escalators, are a joy to me. I do have some questions about the purchase of train equipment. You say that there is a possibility to equip a trainer with one lowered door, through which the commuter can board. Could no other choice be made there? It is ultimately about investment in trains that we will continue to drive for the next twenty or thirty years. I am also pleased to hear that you remain in dialogue with organisations that assist the commuter with a restriction. Green also wants to participate in this dialogue so that as many people as possible can take the train independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u120	Mr President, Minister, more and more cities and municipalities in Belgium are introducing low emission zones. In 2017, Antwerp took the lead. This example was followed in 2018 by the Brussels-Capital Region. Also in Ghent there are plans in this direction. Although the implementation of a low-emission zone can count on strong public support, the important bottleneck remains unresolved. Foreign offenders still too often escape a fine because, under current EU rules, personal data of the owner of the vehicle cannot be exchanged between Member States. An extension of the EUCARIS Convention would provide a solution to this problem. An alternative is to include the exchange of personal data in the bilateral agreements. Such agreements already exist between Belgium and the Netherlands and Belgium and France. However, it is the Regions that are responsible for the low emission zones. They're not a treaty party. I have three questions. Firstly, what is the state of play regarding the possible extension of the EUCARIS Convention on the exchange of personal data? Secondly, is the slope of bilateral agreements a valid slope? Have steps been taken to create a legal basis for the exchange of registration data, because it is a regionalised matter? Finally, are you investigating any other possible ways to sanction foreign offenders? Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to apologise for not hearing your reply. I didn't want to lose my question, but unfortunately I have to leave now. However, I will read it in the report afterwards. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u121	Minister, some people in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels wonder why the Flemish interest won the elections on 26 May. Of course there are many reasons for this, but the subject of my question is one of them. Since the introduction of fines in the low-emission zone (LEZ) in Brussels, I have limited myself to the example of Brussels in October 2018 more than 6,000 Belgian cars were fined. However, foreign car racers are still starting to dance. The question is whether, here and in other low-emission zones in Belgium, the implementation of the legislation does not infringe the European principle of non-discrimination. In concrete terms, according to the Brussels Environment, 6,092 fines of 350 euros have been issued. Among the offenders are only Belgian vehicles. Foreign cars can still not be sanctioned for the time being. Brussels opted for the maintenance of the camera control zone. The license plates of all incoming AudiTTs are scanned by smart cameras and then the administration checks whether the flashed vehicles are allowed to drive the LEZ. However, since the administration does not have the technical data of foreign vehicles, they must register in advance, specifying the euro standard. Those who do not risk a fine of 150 euros, but last year only registered 3% of foreigners. In practice, foreigners escape any fine because, according to current EU rules, no personal data of the owner of the vehicle can be exchanged between Member States. Of course, this happens on issues relating to road safety, but not on license plate data. To what extent was the Belgian government already calling on the EU to extend the exchange of data to the enforcement of LEZ standards? My colleague mentioned the EUCARIS Convention. What bilateral agreements on the exchange of number plate data have already been concluded by Belgium, so that there should no longer be a prior registration, but an automatic recognition by the cameras? What is the concrete state of play with regard to the crossroads bank for number plates that you reported to the Belgian government in May 2019, making it easier to pass on foreign number plates data to the Belgian government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u122	Mr President, the law of 13 April 2019 to which Mr Ravyts refers is now ready for publication in the Belgian Official Journal. However, without the ratification of the EUCARIS Convention, this law will not bring added value. My administration is therefore waiting for the ratification of the Treaty, after which both texts will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. From that moment on, my administration will be able to make arrangements with foreign governments to facilitate the exchange of data for additional finalities. The Belgian ratification of the extension of the EUCARIS Convention allowing a more extensive exchange of vehicle and personal data, including in the context of violations in low-emission zones, will not be long overdue. The Council of State recently issued a favourable opinion which would allow the law for ratification to be submitted to Parliament shortly. I stress the importance of submitting this draft law during the period of current cases, especially since this file was initiated long before that period and the Regions have been waiting for it for a long time. Infringements of the LEZ regulations are legally covered by the bilateral agreements with France and the Netherlands, even if this is a regionalised issue. A low-emission zone is included in the traffic regulations as Article 2.63. An infringement of the LEZ regulation can therefore be regarded as a traffic offence as referred to in the bilateral agreement with France, or an infringement committed in connection with the use of the road as referred to in the bilateral agreement with the Netherlands. However, an infringement of the LEZ regulation does not fall within the scope of the Crossborder Directive. As a result, with the exception of the Netherlands and France, there is no legal basis for automated data exchange. As far as the operational aspect is concerned, according to my information, the Regions have already made agreements with the Netherlands and there are talks with France. No bilateral agreements have been concluded with other countries and no information on the LEZ infringements has been exchanged so far. Hence the importance of extending the EUCARIS Convention. In addition to the obvious but labour-intensive way of keeping the offender to a halt, I believe that this is more of a European problem which needs a harmonised solution. A European initiative would therefore be welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u123	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I have a feeling that you think it is an important problem. You have said that the regional governments have been waiting for ratification of the EUCARIS Convention, among other things, for that is the crux. I would also like to draw your attention to the problem in the press recently. VUB-Professor Michel Maus, who has spoken on all kinds of issues in recent days, referred to the current situation as a violation of the European principle of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u124	Minister, many questions have already been asked in the last legislature about the double-deck M7 ordered in 2015. The last state of affairs was that the delivery had been delayed until one year after the agreed date. The first four carriages would be delivered by the end of this year. In May it was reported that there is a commitment from Bombardier to deliver 48 train sets in spring 2020. I hope that this commitment will be effectively respected. I also hope that the train sets delivered will be of better quality than those received in Switzerland. After all, the Swiss railways had also ordered M7's from Bombardier. These were delivered with five years' delay and after delivery, the reliability of these double-covers proved to be extremely low, even to the extent that Bombardier technicians had to be systematically deployed to remedy the problems. That would be problematic, Mr Minister, because the arrival of these new trains is intended to improve punctuality and improve passenger comfort. Minister, I have four questions on this matter. On 6 February 2019, you stated that SNCB had requested a new stable planning. Has that planning been drawn up effectively? Can you confirm that the first train sets will be delivered before the end of this year and that the next delivery will take place in the spring of 2020? Have contractual agreements been made with the supplier on the reliability of the M7s in passenger service? Does the contract provide for compensation by providing additional train sets if there would be any further delay in delivery? If problems arise when these trains are used in Belgium, will it be possible to use Bombardier's technicians to remedy them? The questions asked by my predecessors show that the delivery of the new M7 trains should generate 50,000 additional seats. At the same time, of course, we also know that older trains will be taken out of rotation. If all these new train sets have been delivered, how many additional seats will this operation have resulted in net?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u125	Mr President, with regard to B and AB towed vehicles, four more vehicles will have to be delivered in December 2019 and four more vehicles will have to be delivered in January 2020. It is the pre-series with which SNCB will temporarily install a P-train. The deliveries from the series from production begin in March 2020 at a monthly rhythm of ten cars delivered. SNCB expects delivery of the BDX and BMX steering stations to start from September 2020. The M7 contract contains strict reliability requirements that allow the M7 trains to operate with at least the same operational security as the existing M6 double-deck trains from 2002 and 2008. In May, June and July 2019, at the request of SNCB, the manufacturers already carried out 44,000 kilometers of duration tests on the Infrastructure network, a simulation of real commercial routes with passengers. This highlighted a number of points that the manufacturers had to solve before moving to the first series cars in December 2019. Passenger growth is captured by a higher net number of seats. The inflow of the 445 M7 carriages will indeed provide about 50,000 new seats. Taking into account the outflow of the old equipment and some efficiency increases, there will be more than 15,000 seats by the end of 2022 than at the end of 2018. In addition to the purchase of the M7 trains, SNCB also concluded a contract with the manufacturer to support maintenance for four years. This allows SNCB to enforce the contractual reliability, as well as to accelerate the learning curve of SNCB employees for the maintenance of that new type of rolling stock.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u126	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As regards timing, I have the impression that nothing has changed since spring, which is of course good news. I noticed a small detail from your answer. You said that it was contractually agreed that the operational security of the M7 trains should be at least as high as that of the M6 trains. However, the M6 train sets will be 15 years old when the M7 sets are delivered. I think we can expect a new generation of train sets to be more reliable than the previous ones. However, I am not a technician and cannot therefore assess exactly what your statement means. We will, of course, continue to follow up this dossier, given the importance of the delivery of the new train sets for the roll-out of a new transport plan next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u127	Last year, Minister, Skeyes and Defence expressed their common ambition to provide integrated civilian and military air navigation services in Belgian airspace by 2030, with a high degree of reliability and optimum efficiency. In this respect, we are talking about Vision 2030 and the creation of a unified airspace, the Single Belgian Sky, via timesharing in the air between skeyes, Defense and Eurocontrol. Last year, skeyes and Defense signed a framework agreement governing this future structural cooperation which would allow greater flexibility for the use of Belgian airspace. From the end of this year civil and military air traffic control would be housed together on the site of skeyes in Steenokkerzeel. The military air traffic controllers would then join their colleagues in the operational room of the CANAC 2 air traffic control centre. Minister, are there any action plans for the development of the 2030 Vision? Are there other action plans besides cooperation in Steenokkerzeel? If so, what plans, and what is the timetable for the various actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u128	Dear colleague, Single Belgian Sky is an initiative launched in the 2014-2019 legislative period. The problems faced by civil aviation and military aviation were listed. The needs for capacity, punctuality, a smooth airspace and a robust ATM service that meets the demands of the airlines and military operations were defined. Concrete actions were undertaken, in particular the approximation of civil and military air traffic control, which should lead in the near future to the co-location of both services at skeyes, in a first phase, and to a real synergy in a second phase. The gradual implementation of the European flexible use of airspace has also started. It is now important to consider other important aspects of the Single Belgian Sky in the context of that concept. Firstly, environmental aspects, in particular noise, CO2 emissions and fine dust, as well as our international obligations on CORSIA, are undoubtedly a major challenge in the next decade. Secondly, the reduction of noise at Belgian airports, both civil and military airports. Thirdly, the sustainability of light aviation by ensuring daily access to training areas, an advantageous cost for the use of infrastructure and adequate support. Light aviation ensures the training of tomorrow's line pilots and provides an economic activity that is important for Belgium. We have a strong technological name. Many companies invest in small aviation, which should therefore not be overlooked. Finally, the fourth aspect to be considered is the integration of drone operations into the structure of Belgian airspace.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u129	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of the various challenges facing us in the coming decade of synergy. I will, of course, continue to follow up on the subject and question you or your successor in the new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u130	Question No 55000653C by Georges Dallemagne is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u131	Minister, Lille-Lesquin Airport is at the heart of an extensive extension project. This airport exceeded 2 million passengers in 2018 and aims to reach 3 million quickly. Following this extension project, France has carried out environmental and noise impact studies. However, the study perimeter stops at the French border while neighbouring Belgian cities such as Tournai will suffer noise nuisances as a result of this extension. Minister, have environmental and noise impact studies also been carried out in Belgium following the announcement of this project? If so, can you give us the first results and actions to be taken to reduce noise nuisances? Are there any discussions with France in order to identify possible routes of action to prevent aircraft that systematically take off and land from flying over the same cities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u132	On September 12, 2019, the mayor of the city of Tournai wrote to me to inform me of a project to extend Lille airport. After consulting my administration, I was able to find that no French authority or body had informed the Belgian authorities of this project. That is why I have asked the aeronautics administration of our country, DGTA, to worry about this with its French counterpart. For my part, I contacted the French Minister in charge of Transport to ask him about the matter. I have demanded that environmental impact and noise studies be carried out on areas of Belgian territory overflew by flights from and upon arrival at Lille-Lesquin airport. We await the organization of these studies and their conclusions before we can discuss the results and see what future actions will be. I believe that a European directive indicates that such studies should not stop at the administrative borders of States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-01-55-commissie-ic017x.u133	Minister, thank you. I am reassured to hear that you have made all these requests. There are regular overflights of our Region at very low altitudes, and these are gaining in intensity, which is becoming a problem for many citizens who were not previously affected by these overflights. I also ask myself the question of the overflight by aircraft of buildings classified by UNESCO. I ask you to persevere. Your attention and vigilance are necessary to respect the well-being of the inhabitants.
