ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u1	Minister, the United States is asking the European countries to take over the 800 IS fighters currently in prison in Syria. I have a number of brief and concrete questions concerning the Syrian fighters and their families of Belgian nationality. First of all, how many do we know they haven't returned and are still alive? How many of them are in captivity? I'd love to have a division into men, women, children. Do we know exactly where they are and what they are being charged with? Are there any lists of these? Secondly, how many of them were convicted in absentia by a Belgian court? What crimes have they been convicted of and what sentences have been pronounced? How many of them are locked up in Syria? Here too I liked to be divided into men and women. How many of them have now returned, served their punishment, or already carried out their punishment? Again, I would like to have a distinction between those who have already served a sentence and those who are still in prison. Thirdly, the federal prosecutor warns that the Syrian fighters who have not yet been convicted will have to be brought before the investigating judge. The court will ask the investigating judge to place them under arrest and continue the investigation, but the major difficulty is to collect evidence. In what way can you guarantee that these people will not be released once they arrive here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u2	Firstly, the Coordination Body for Threat Analysis has informed me of the following. On 15 February 2019 292 identified persons, who stayed in Belgium before their departure, would still be in the jihadist conflict area in Syria and Iraq, the so-called FTF category 1. 142 of these 292 people are suspected to have died. Two persons are detained in Iraq and 26 in Syria in an area controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF). It concerns 17 women, eight adult men and a minor, over 12 years old, who are considered to be FTF. One of the women and two of the men do not have Belgian nationality, but are persecuted in Belgium. The OCAD is currently aware of six Belgian adult men being held in Syria. A total of 31 minor children would also be in Syrian refugee camps, under the control of the SDF. The reports including information on their exact location are classified. As for your second question, according to information available to the OCAD, eight of the 26 FTF in Syria were convicted in absentia in Belgium: six women and two men. Seven of them, six women and one man, have been sentenced to five years in prison for terrorist acts. One of them is not a holder of Belgian nationality. The eighth person has been sentenced to 15 years, also for acts of terrorism. It cannot be ruled out and it is even likely that a higher penalty may be imposed after their return, on the basis of additional information, which shows that other crimes have been committed. When it comes to the preparation of terrorist attacks or any other violent crime, the level of punishment is significantly higher. Life imprisonment is a possibility. With regard to your third question, the federal prosecutor tells me that since 2015, approximately 150 foreign terrorist fighters (FTF) have been convicted of terrorist offences while remaining in the jihadist conflict area of Syria-Iraq at the time of the verdict. So it's a convict in absentia. Some of them have returned and are now to be punished. A procedure against resistance is, of course, possible. Every returnee is the subject of a criminal record. Any person who has travelled to a jihadist conflict zone shall be terminated and arrested upon return. If no conviction has yet been given, the investigating judge shall decide on a possible arrest. In addition to the convictions in absentia, 50 foreign terrorist fighters were also convicted on their return for the first time. In some cases, the judge decided to stay in prison for life. We have the opportunity to decide on provisional detention. For the council chamber, this is facilitated in the case of terrorist offences in relation to other crimes, in the sense that it should not be established that there is a risk of escape, recurrence or collusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u3	Thank you, Minister. That's a lot of numbers and full answers to the questions. We don't know exactly where they are, because that's classified, you say. Do we know what they are being charged with? I do not know if I can ask that sub-question, but I have not yet heard an answer to that. Are there lists of what they are being charged with? That is still unclear to me. I can ask that later, if you would not be able to answer it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u4	I cannot give an exact answer to that and I am just trying to give precise answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u5	Mr President, Minister, this time my question is not about weapons but about the legal profession. After all, we are getting signals that things are going badly wrong with lawyers who are declared bankrupt. Parliament has abolished the old bankruptcy law and the old law on company continuity and replaced it by the new insolvency law. That law entered into force on 1 May 2018. Among other things, the new insolvency law places the second chance at the centre of attention. Entrepreneurs and self-employed people, who may have a setback in life, deserve a second chance. It is emphasized that the failure can immediately restart its activity and that new revenues, unlike before, do not come to the estate but to the failed self. In its rules on lawyer and insolvency, which entered into force on the day before the entry into force of the insolvency law, the OVB included, inter alia, the automatic deletion of the tableau in the event of bankruptcy. On the other hand, the Ordre des barreaux francophones et germanophone did not include this in its regulations. The Dutch-speaking Bar Association in Brussels has now filed an appeal against the above-mentioned regulation of the OVB in cassation, partly because under the rules an unequal treatment would arise between Dutch-speaking and non-Dutch-speaking lawyers in Brussels and also because the rules on the inclusion or omission on the tableau would be a privilege of local barristers and not of the OVB. The secondary effect of the pending appeal in cassation is the emergence of a stalemate, in which a number of lawyers are currently refused a new entry on the tableau. Consequently, the curators of the lawyers concerned, and totally contrary to the spirit of the insolvency law, have been blocking all new professional income for several months. Certain lawyers are thus brought to the brink of the abyss. The mental and financial situation in which they are brought and held is unworthy of a rule of law. The condition is severe and acute. There is an urgent need to break through the stalemate. Can you therefore give me an answer to the following five questions? Firstly, are you aware of the current problems of lawyers and insolvency proceedings? Since when and in what way have you been informed of the problems? Secondly, in your view, can a lawyer's insolvency be regarded as a deontological infringement? In addition, and for the sole purpose of declaring insolvency, may a disciplinary investigation be carried out into an insolvent lawyer? Thirdly, have you already consulted with the OVB and, where appropriate, with the OBFG on how to deal with cases concerning lawyers in insolvency proceedings? If so, what is the result? Fourthly, will you soon see a solution to the deadlock in which the affected lawyers find themselves? By what time do you see this solution? Finally, are you prepared to take steps to safeguard for them the legal right to a second chance if a solution for the affected lawyers were not to be found for a long time? What steps do you consider possible, e.g. a letter of conversion, a meeting with the OVB or OBFG, which should lead to a solution of the stalemate, or any other useful action of yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u6	Mr President, Mr Degroote, since the entry into force of the new insolvency law on 1 May, liberal professions, including lawyers, can also be declared bankrupt, as you pointed out. I have established that the provisions to which you referred were added to the deontological codex of lawyers by means of a regulation, which was adopted on 28 March 2018 and published on 30 April 2018. The OVB, with whom I have had contact, informed me that the purpose of the aforementioned regulation is to examine the underlying reasons for the bankruptcy. According to the OVB, a deletion allows the Board of the Order to verify that there are no deontological infringements that led to the bankruptcy. If it is found that there are no deontological infringements, the Council of the Order may immediately re-record the lawyer to the tableau so that he can take a start. I stress that I have received neither complaints from the OVB nor from the OBFG, nor from the Dutch-speaking Bar Association, for example, here in Brussels. On the other hand, the issuing of deontological rules within a profession falls within the autonomous competence of that profession itself and the Minister of Justice has no legal guardianship.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u7	Mr President, Minister, you say that if there are no deontological infringements, we can immediately re-enter the tableau. You mean it's the local order, for example, that of the Ghent bar, which the lawyer can put back on the tableau? [[Minister's agreement]] I hope that in certain cases a solution can be found. From the cases that I know, I deduce that the objectives of the insolvency law, namely giving a second chance, can immediately start again and the new income after bankruptcy will be completely undermined and that it will become a second nightmare for those people rather than a second chance after bankruptcy. I am glad, however, that you say that if there are no deontological infringements, the local order can take them back to the tableau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u8	Minister, one of the priorities of the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry involved in the investigation of the terrorist attacks of 22 March was to improve the position of the victims in various areas. This included the provision of information. Two websites have been launched for this purpose, but they are apparently currently not accessible. How is it that there is currently no access to these websites? Since when and until when has access to those websites been closed? What information do these websites contain? How can those involved, if they are looking for information, obtain information in an alternative way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u9	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, on 8 February the four laws on financial assistance to victims were published in the Belgian Official Journal. On the same day, my administration made a thorough adjustment to its general website. As a result, from day one, victims have had access to up-to-date information and this in a clear way. The old links to which you refer are no longer valid since the site has been modified. The new web pages are accessible to everyone by clicking on the website justice.belgium.be on the word "victim." The direct link to the reception page will be happy to provide you with my staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u10	Mr Minister, the problem has now been solved and everyone has access to the necessary information, because that is obviously very important for the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u11	Question No 28766 by Mrs Van Cauter, as well as questions No 28818 and No 28860 by Mrs Lambrecht, are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u12	Mr Minister, I have a question about the unease of interpreters at the Court of Justice in Brussels. These are an integral part of the judiciary. Judges also know how valuable they are in everyday life, during interrogations, during telephone calls, at court hearings. It is very often impossible to do without them since, as you also know, criminals arrested in our country do not speak only in Dutch or French. Interpreter-translators, who are present to respond to the designations of magistrates and the demands of law enforcement agencies, are also likely to work at any hour of the day or night, on weekdays or weekends. According to my information, Minister, the situation is particularly tense at the Court of Justice in Brussels between some 20 interpreters and the President of the Court of First Instance, who has been blocking a very large number of invoices for several years. Some of these interpreters have taken a lawyer to enforce their rights. Legal proceedings are under way against the Belgian State to compel the President of the Brussels Court of First Instance to honour these dozens of invoices, which represent considerable amounts for these interpreters. Some of these invoices date back to 2016. According to my information, the president of the Brussels Court of First Instance would systematically refuse to pay interpreters for the hours that were given at night or on weekends, in all types of cases, including cases of terrorism, even though these services were duly requested by judges. While it is not a question of interfering with ongoing judicial proceedings, this situation raises several questions. Minister, do you confirm this information? What are the working rules of the weekend that apply to interpreters in judicial matters? Are you aware of the amount of arrears claimed by interpreters?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u13	Mr Goffin, in 2017, the president of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels asked the central justice department to reduce the budgeted amount of several states of costs, due to suspicions of irregularity in the application of the rules in force in respect of legal fees. Some translators and interpreters have brought legal proceedings in order to obtain payment of their indisputable costs. Until now, as long as the judge concerned does not validate the statements of costs, they cannot be liquidated. The Brussels dispute concerns urgent benefits outside working days. The Royal Decree of 22 December 2016 defines the night services of translators and interpreters as services performed between 22:00 and 06:00. For these services, the hourly rate of 48 euros is doubled, for the actual duration of the service, which is expressed in number of minutes. For Saturday benefits, between 06:00 and 22:00, the rate may be increased by 50%. For Sunday or public holidays, the hourly rate is doubled. In this regard, it should also be mentioned that it is no longer relevant to know whether the requesting magistrates note on their request that the translation is urgent. The urgency and associated rate increase must be calculated mathematically. It is a matter of urgency when the translator has to translate more than 2,100 words a day to meet the deadline. Of course, all requesting magistrates have an obligation to properly monitor whether all costs of justice are justified. This obligation also applies to weekend benefits. These controls are not only mandatory but also necessary. They also require adequate enforcement that does not lead to arrears of payments. At present, my services are not yet fully aware of the amount of the backlog of court fees for translators and interpreters working in the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels due to a lack of information. The statements of charges charged in the application of accounting were processed without delay. The draft law on criminal justice costs and related costs, approved at first reading in the Justice Committee, provides for a strict separation between the requesting magistrate responsible for monitoring the quality of the service and the district office responsible for managing the taxation and liquidation of the costs. In addition, a new appeal procedure is being developed to appeal to the Director-General of the judicial organization, who must give a final reply within two months. In the new system, the undisputed portion of the statement of costs will, in any event, be paid. This aims to avoid long blockages in future costing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u14	Mr Minister, I thank you for this information and for the positive outlook.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u15	Mr Minister, almost three years after the facts, the Federal Prosecutor's Office announced in mid-January that the files of the Brussels attacks were now theoretically available to the parties, be it the defence or the civil parties. For all the victims of these horrific acts, it was a real relief to learn that they would be able to consult their file. Unfortunately, this was clearly only an announcement effect since real and effective access is not yet possible. Some victims' lawyers even state that they were told that such access would not be possible until September. According to FPS Justice information, to date, 682 victims have occurred. In order to have access to the file, they must not only have formed civil parties, but also have made a formal request for access to the file. Once these formalities have been completed, they will, of course, have to respect the secrecy of the investigation which is still under way. Today, it is known that this file already has nearly 60,000 pages and that to view it, victims would only have 10 working days, which is 6,000 pages a day, knowing that no hard copy or dvd copies will be issued. So, of course, it's quite unfeasible. According to my information, the situation would be even more difficult for the victims' lawyers. For them, viewing the file would be limited to a six-hour day, which is, if you calculate correctly, a reading of 10,000 pages per hour. Again, it's completely impossible. Mr Minister, do you confirm that the file is still not available for the victims of the attacks in Brussels? Do you confirm that the victims will only have 10 days to consult him? Do you confirm that civil party lawyers will have only one day to review this file? If so, how do you justify this short period? Can you tell us what the provisions of section 61ter of the Code of Criminal Investigation are? Are copies of the dvds provided to facilitate consultation with the parties? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u16	Mr Goffin, the Federal Prosecutor's Office has given me the following information. He noted that the information contained in the question was not accurate. Following the authorization granted on 14 January 2019, the investigating judges instructed the victim reception service to inform the civil parties about the possibility of consulting the files. An application to the investigating judge must be made through the victim reception service by completing a simple form annexed to the letter. The civil parties are then requested to return, if possible within 15 days, this duly completed document. A letter explaining this mode of operation was sent on 30 January 2019, in French, Dutch or English, as appropriate, to lawyers and to the 600 victims who formed civil parties. Upon receipt of their reply, the persons concerned shall be included in a list of persons who have expressed the wish to read the file. The authorization for access to the file, which will then be issued by investigating judges to civil parties and lawyers, will be valid for a period of 10 working days, which can be extended on request. The dates will be determined in consultation with the civil parties. This has been decided in view of the large number of civilian parties and the need to organise an agenda allowing each of them to consult the files in good conditions (staff present to provide assistance, the number of computers, psychological assistance). Victims have also been informed that if they do not feel ready or able to come to the file, there will be other times to offer them this opportunity. For civil parties, the reading of the file in computerized form is carefully prepared and supervised by the investigating judges, the registry and the victim service, with the support of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Each civil party will be assisted by the accompanying legal assistant from the beginning of this investigation. A selection of the most interesting documents to be consulted may be made jointly with the civil party on the basis of an inventory of the dossier made available to them. Translations into the multiple languages of relatives who do not speak French or Dutch are also being carried out. With regard to the readability of this very voluminous case, it should be borne in mind that a few hundred civil parties have already attended the two information sessions held in October 2017 and April 2018 by the investigating judges and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, which have already enabled them to have a view of the state of the investigation. Most relatives and several seriously injured persons were given the opportunity to view the images of the surveillance cameras in the affected areas. Since the investigation is still under way, however, it is an access to the file and not an opportunity to have a copy of it. At the close of this investigation, the investigating judges will make the case available to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office for all useful purposes, who will then prepare a referral order. A new opportunity to have access to and to take a copy of the file will then be granted to civil parties as well as to all other victims who have made an injured person's statement. The entire procedure described is in full conformity with the legal provisions relating to the consultation of the repressive file of the Code of Criminal Investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1042x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers.
