ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u2	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Mr Didier Reynders, who resigned on November 30, 2019. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr Didier Reynders, who resigned on 30 November 2019. The alternate to replace him is Mr Philippe Pivin, alternate for the electoral district of Brussels-Capital. The successor who will replace him is Philippe Pivin, successor to the Brussels-Capital constituency. Philippe Pivin's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. The credentials of Mr Philippe Pivin were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u3	I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the French or Dutch language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in French or in Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "Je judge d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr Philippe Pivin to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Philippe Pivin to take the constitutional oath. Philippe Pivin takes the constitutional oath in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u4	Mr. Philippe Pivin will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Philippe Pivin will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 December 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mr Servais Verherstraeten) amending various transitional provisions and relating to the entry into force of the law on justice, No 803/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 December 2019, I propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the legislative proposal (Mr Servais Verherstraeten) amending various provisions on transitional arrangements and entry into force on Justice, No. 803/1, to be registered. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u6	By letter dated November 30, 2019, the Prime Minister transmits a copy of the Royal Order of November 30, 2019 entitled "Government – Resignation – Amendment – Appointment". By letter dated 30 November 2019, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 30 November 2019, entitled "Government of the Federal Republic of Germany'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u7	The MR Group proposes to replace Mr Philippe Goffin, Member of the resigned Bureau, with Ms Kattrin Jadin. The MR Group proposes that Mr Philippe Goffin be replaced by Ms Kattrin Jadin as outgoing member of the Bureau. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u8	Mr President, I would like to make a comment. I see that for the first time we will be working with a decoy. I don't know if you know the Block programme, Mr. President? In that one has exactly two minutes to guess a word of eight letters. There is one such programme in the Netherlands, two for twelve Members will be two after twelve Members, and there will be two minutes to guess a word of twelve letters. You are now forcing us to put a question to a minister and to outline its context, the only time we are allowed to put an oral question directly in Parliament in the two-minute democratic period. It can be said that oral questions may also be put in committee, but then the question is no longer topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u9	Make your point, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u10	Mr President, I would really like to express my opinion on this, because I think it is an embarrassing act for Parliament. Parliament is in favour of freedom of expression. We all complain about the participation, we complain that we are backbenchers and we are not allowed to say anything. This, the hemisphere, is the only place I am very surprised that colleagues agree to this where one can express one's opinion freely, where one gets the time and where the ministers are present; what is not always the case in the committees, after all, sometimes one can wait weeks and the actual value of the question has already disappeared. I think it's a sad thing to do. Mr Hedebouw, for example, I cannot hear you say anything about this. However, you have become famous in Flanders thanks to Question Time. I will conclude, Mr President. We will soon end up as a Twitter Parliament, where we will have to count our vowels and consonants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u11	I take note of your comments. However, I would like to say the following. It was agreed that the speaking time provided for in the Rules of Procedure should be adequately measured. Mr Dedecker, you may have difficulty with regulations. To let us know what we're playing in, it's good to know when your time is up. If you are not in a position to ask a question in two minutes, then I take note of that too, with the increasing age, it is becoming a little more difficult to be concise, I suppose. In any case, let us try to do a tasting in succinctness. The rules are the same for everyone. If you can't ask a question in two minutes, I don't think it's a good question. If you do not agree, you will have to table a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure so that everyone can speak as long as he wants, but that cannot be the intention. In all the parliaments we know, including the European Parliament, there is one way or another a time limit, a minute. I can't help it if you don't like it or not. I propose that we move on to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, you participated in the important NATO 70th anniversary summit in London. The final photo showed NATO unity but did not make up the lizards and discussion points that exist today. I am delighted that the French President kicked in the bureaucratic anthill "Otanian". Through this security alliance, we are now going through a major crisis. At the same time, we know the sovereignism of the United States and Turkey's betrayal of our ally in the fight against the Islamic State. Terrorism is one of the main threats to our security. But there are important internal differences, a lack of definition of the threats to which we are exposed, and a lack of cohesion and coherence within the alliance; this, with a particularly weak Europe, since it is unable to put in place a genuine European defence. Madam Prime Minister, I understand that you did not just attend this summit, but that you took an active part in it, to the point of proposing, at the end of the summit and at a meeting with President Macron, a collaboration to define a more effective strategic future for this security alliance. I'd like to know how you feel about this summit. What role does Belgium intend to play? What is its ambition to ensure that this security alliance is commensurate with the security challenges we face?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, you have experienced your first NATO summit. As we could read, the atmosphere in London was not very good. There has been discussion for some time about the role and future of NATO and with presidents like Trump and Erdogan at the table, that is not obvious. Our group is and remains in favour of NATO as a guarantee of our common security. However, an alliance only works if there is cohesion and cooperation. Belgium must continue to set an example and the next government will have to invest more in defence so that we can fulfil our NATO obligations. We must therefore know where NATO is going. Trump speaks threatening language, Macron believes that NATO is brain dead and Turkey is unleashing wars in which we can also be dragged along, all in a world where Russia and China are also profiling. Our country is a founding member of NATO and wants to continue to play a constructive role. Madam Prime Minister, we read that you have offered to be a constructive mediator to re-establish cohesion in NATO. I have two questions. Can you explain how NATO will conduct its strategic discussions in the future? What will Belgium's position be on the international stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, you went to London to attend your first NATO summit. You presented us, a few days ago, in committee, with the major issues at stake at this summit. Today, we would like to know your political impressions following the ministerial and multilateral meetings, and the bilateral meetings you had on that occasion. Madam Prime Minister, from a political point of view, NATO will open up an important reflection on its future, and in particular on its cohesion, based on Article 4 of the Treaty. How will this reflection be organized within the alliance? At the political level, NATO and Russia's relations must be part of a constructive dialogue, but, of course, they must be free of naivety. It is this tone that should guide us, in particular, at the summit to be held next Monday on Ukraine. The Turkish question was also a major issue at this summit. Did you see, Madam Prime Minister, a better understanding of Ankara's interests, on the one hand, and the Atlantic Alliance, on the other? Finally, space becomes an operational area of the Atlantic Alliance, an essential dimension for the success of NATO operations. Can you assure us that we are defending a vision of the non-militarization of outer space? With its space industry, can Belgium value its assets in this sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u15	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, my question will be more general. You participated in your first NATO summit. The world in which this organization was created has changed. Threats are no longer the same, but they are strong. There is, of course, the fight against terrorism. There is the question of Russia. Of course, we are no longer faced with the red peril of the 1950s. However, Watford's statement did not make the mistake of designating Russia as an enemy, even though it remains a country that poses a threat to its immediate neighbours. We must therefore find a way to have better relations with that country. That said, it is particularly striking that, while the world was changing, NATO did not change or not change enough. It is an organization that has not evolved. And what hasn't changed at all is the balance of power. Indeed, Europeans remain clearly dominated by the United States in this organization. However, we can have fairly healthy defence relations with the United States, while at the same time building a defence Europe. But we Europeans are still dwarves in this area. My question will be very simple. As Prime Minister, even if it is a minority government in day-to-day affairs, do you feel the need to develop a vision of European defence that could begin to anchor itself? Belgium is both a founding member of NATO and the European Union. Our country could provide a positive impetus in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, it was the first time you participated in the NATO Summit. I would like to congratulate you on that. You have received several questions from four speakers. You will have four minutes for your answer, minister. I know you can perfectly meet this deadline.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u17	Thank you for your confidence, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank each and every one of you for these questions, which allow us to take stock of what happened during this top. We had already had the opportunity to mention in the RELEX Group the points that I would be able to defend on behalf of Belgium. At the beginning of the top, there was talk of a crisis, as there had been reflections and remarks on the functioning of NATO. We must not deceive ourselves: when we are thirty in a covenant, there are sometimes divergent opinions, especially when the world changes, as you have all so well noted. For Belgium, I pleaded for dialogue. I explained that we could not at the same time develop external dialogue with third countries in the Alliance and not be in a position to do so within NATO itself. I assure you right away: I was not the only one who said it at the meeting. Most countries have played the unit map. Why? Because what makes NATO strong is precisely this article 5 All for one, one for all. From the moment we keep this unit in the viewfinder, we can continue to be a strong Alliance that will make sense in maintaining security. As far as European development is concerned, it is true that European defence is strengthening. We see it and we want it, too. But the strengthening of this European defence must not be seen as competition or opposition to NATO. This must be seen as a strengthening pillar. When European defence is strengthened, NATO is strengthened. After saying that, we then add the essentials. For Belgium, NATO remains the cornerstone of defence. You have to be able to work on both tables. We therefore called for closer cooperation between NATO and the European Union. Other points were indeed discussed during the sitting. We talked about the Global Response Plan for the East. That was approved by Ankara, which was not the case at the beginning of our meeting. That too was an important point. It was also decided that space would be declared as a fifth operational domain. That's very important. I confirm, of course, that Belgium is not in favour of militarisation of space, it is a question of better information and coordination. We have also reached agreement on the cost share, not to be confused with the Burden Sharing. I also heard the question about our relations with Russia. Belgium's position remains the same. We must bring a dual approach, with a credible and clearly dissuasive defence system on the one hand, and, on the other hand, keep open the channels for discussion with Russia within the framework of the NATO-Russia Council. To conclude on the general feeling: yes, there were strong expressions, but they enabled the dialogue on the future of NATO to be revived. You will have noticed that the decisions that have been announced concern not only a reflection on the future of NATO, but also on the strengthening of NATO, which is fundamental for us, and again with this message of unity, which is dear to us. Mr. President, I took five seconds too much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, I understood that there was an ambition, which I hope is strong. I believe that Belgium, which is one of the founding states of NATO, must return to its word outside. In these areas, particularly on the question of European defence, we have suffered from a party within the previous government which was deeply Eurosceptic and which did not work on this issue of European defence. Finally, we must regain strategic autonomy at European level in order to be able to weigh more within the Alliance. We must also find a strategic concept for NATO that is much better adapted to the current global context, particularly beyond the Atlantic coast. Beyond that, we must regain strong internal coherence on the basis of this proposal by the French President. I hope that we will be at the side of those leaders who point out the i and insist on the fundamental changes that need to be made in these strategic alliances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. We are pleased to hear that you want to continue to play an active role in overcoming the crisis and that further consideration is being given to the future of NATO. We consider security to be crucial in Europe and Belgium, and NATO plays an important role in this. At the same time, however, I have also heard you say that further work is being carried out on European defence within and alongside NATO. You said we should work on both at the same time. I remember, however, that Mr Reynders was right to point out at a committee meeting that European defence will only come about if the European defence industry converges with it. There is still a challenge for the leaders of the various countries. So let us work towards a strong NATO but also a strong European defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, for the pragmatism and wisdom of your remarks at the end of this first NATO summit. In particular, one word: cooperation. Cooperation but with realism, without naivety towards Russia. Cooperation to deny the French feeling of NATO's brain death, cooperation as a member of the cradle of the Atlantic Alliance, cooperation for our security interests, particularly in the face of Syria's problems and cooperation in the non-military space field, you stressed, for the benefit of our space industry. We hope, Madam Prime Minister, that enhanced cooperation will be at the heart of our policy within this Alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u21	Prime Minister, thank you for your full answer. I do not doubt a second of your European commitment. I will, however, put a little bit down on the faith and confidence you seem to place in this famous article 5. I believe that Mr Trump's presidency must be a sort of alarm signal. Before his arrival, no one would have imagined that an American president might suggest that one day, the United States would not intervene automatically if a threat, for example against a Baltic State, came to light. This alarm signal must make us aware that a construction of Defence Europe will arrive as soon as possible. Thank you for paying attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u22	Minister, on 18 March, strike at Louvain prison; on 7 May, in Brussels, Dendermonde, Hasselt, Lantin; on 26 September, in Antwerp; on 2 October, in Turnhout; on 7 November, notice to Mons; on 14 November, in Ittre. Mr Minister, the general strike announced in our prisons is far from being a surprise, as it is the result of a legitimate ras-le-bol of agents in the face of unfulfilled promises as working conditions continue to deteriorate. These men and women work in disastrous conditions. It is impossible to carry out reintegration and accompaniment work. Detainees are worse off when they leave prison. Today, prison officers have only one demand: to exercise their already difficult profession in humane and safe conditions. The savings imposed on the justice system, and in particular on our prisons, have a daily impact. For example, an inmate escaped from Jamioulx three weeks ago while in hospital. He should have been accompanied by two experienced agents. However, it is learned that only one inexperienced agent would have performed this task. This is one example among others that illustrates the state of our prisons and our justice. Minister, what are your results from the savings imposed? How do you respond to trade unions who feel betrayed because the commitments have not been fulfilled? How will you ensure security inside and outside prisons, when inexperienced and few officers are put on the front line? Has the escapee been located? Do you have any other information about him?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u23	Mrs Özen, far from me from telling you that the situation in our country's prisons is ideal: 70% of the buildings are from the 19th century and this cannot be resolved in a legislature. Many prisons were closed or partially closed during this term: Tilburg in the Netherlands, Forest, by the mayor and Merksplas, following a fire. So I lost about 800 places. But there are far fewer prisoners at the end than at the beginning of the legislature. I've reduced the number of units by 1,200. At the same time, I guaranteed a framework. It is not fully filled because I find it very difficult to recruit, especially in the north of the country. In 2017, I recruited 609 prison officers: 561 in 2018, and 381 on October 1, 2019. I am doing my best to complete this framework, which is filled to 94 or 95% by not taking into account the sick or absent. About the strike you're talking about, I'm very sad that it's about the minimum service. I tried to negotiate it as much as possible, not only the 2019 law but also the royal decrees throughout the summer. The last one was published yesterday. Mediation is under way regarding the framework that must be present by prison in the event of a strike. I am sure that we will achieve this with the goodwill of all. I have not yet given my consent to the strike and I will do my best to prevent it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u24	Minister, you are talking about minimum service, but you know that, given the lack of resources, our prisons are already working with a minimum service. Your prison policy over the last five years has kept prisons in another century! Lack of consideration and contempt for those facing tensions and violence in prisons has implications for officers, detainees and society as a whole. Minister, your speech does not change the facts. You have carried out a repressive policy focused on prison, your draft Penal Code is a good example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u25	Minister, if someone is cut, crucified or murdered in our country, they risk a prison sentence of 15 years to life. If you do that in Syria and then come here, you risk five years in prison here. What will you do about it? Stop the clock, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u26	You provide the perfect proof that one can ask a pertinent question in a very short period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u27	Minister, I would like to talk to you about the statements of the federal prosecutor, Mr Van Leeuw, who said last week that terrorist crimes are often penalised too little in our country. According to him, this is due to the correcting of such facts, which often prevents the maximum legal penalty from being imposed. I had the impression, but that might be wrong, that the prosecutor meant that it almost became an automatism in the parquets to correct. However, if one does not have to take into account mitigating circumstances, terrorist acts can indeed be brought before the Court of Assists. I realise that there was a lot of discussion in the previous legislature about the role of the Court of Assists, but bearing in mind the philosophy that serious facts with a serious impact on society can still be brought before that court, I believe that terrorist crimes belong there. Hence my questions. Firstly, what is your opinion on whether or not to automatically correct and whether or not to bring it to justice before the court of assists of such crimes? Secondly, we are fully engaged in the composition of the new Criminal Code. Can you give me any explanation? Are you planning higher penalties? To which court will terrorist acts be brought into the future? Thirdly, there is an important discussion about the posting of convicted persons to the criminal court. There is no longer any mention of this in the new Criminal Code, although this may be a useful measure for sexual offenders and perpetrators of terrorist offences, among others. Are you planning alternatives to the system of posting?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u28	Thank you, Mr Dedecker and Mrs Gabriels, for your conciseness. I will try to follow your example. Firstly, at the moment 140 IS fighters have returned and 430 convictions for terrorism have been pronounced in the last five years. That means that with the bad you seem to say, you should also be able to say the good that many people have been convicted who have not even left and that many have been condemned in absentia who have either died or died there. In general, I do not think that the prosecutor has declared that the penalties are too small. In my view, he regretted that the Court of Assists was not abolished at least for acts of terrorism and that, because it was not abolished, many of these facts were corrected because it was not adapted to bring terrorist crimes before an assassin court for all kinds of reasons, of which the harassment of the jurors by the facts and the high security measures are not the least. That is what Mr Van Leeuw's discourse is about rather than about the punitive measures. It is about the measures of punishment for the lightest terrorist crimes, such as the departure to Syria or merely being part of a gang like Sharia4Belgium. It's not about the serious terrorist crimes. Secondly, I would perhaps like in Parliament, now that everyone is sitting here and is able to take all kinds of interesting initiatives outside the government, to give some thought to the way in which serious crimes, especially gang crimes and terrorist offences, should continue to be tried in Belgium after the numerous hearings on the Assenhof. I'm in the process of organizing the trial for Maalbeek and Zaventem. That's what a piece of NATO buildings was hired for. This is going to be a huge trial with thousands of bourgeois parties and with an assassin court, because apparently one side of the Chamber in Parliament thinks that there should never be a jury when the other side of the Chamber thinks that there should always be a jury. This is true of both the Dutch and French speakers. I have tried to solve this through a total possibility of correcting it. The Constitutional Court considered this solution to be contrary to the principle of equality. All alternatives to criminal chambers, which I have proposed, were rejected. In the new Criminal Code, the penalties are more severe. These are penalties which do not apply to category 4 and category 5 offences either. The new criminal code, which I hope to be able to submit, abolishes the Court of Assists. You will not approve of that, but I would like to ask you to consider how the task of the Assenhof can be eased for the serious crimes, such as terrorist and gang crimes, type of gang of Nivelles, possibly through a constitutional change.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u29	Minister, I did not ask that question to learn a lesson about the court of assistants. I asked that question about what Attorney Van Leeuw said. He did propose a solution, in particular a criminal chamber at the correctional court to deal with such cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u30	By means of a Constitutional change!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u31	Either he doesn't know about it, or I don't know about it. It doesn't make any sense when it comes to punishment. We are a rule of law. If people who have committed criminal acts elsewhere are to come here to try them, then they must also be able to bring them to justice here. If one is convicted of drug trafficking in Singapore, one is tried there and one can even get the death penalty. We'd better leave those people there so they get their deserved punishment. That would be much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for making some nuance. I believe that the debate on the Court of Assists was also held in the previous legislature. We urgently need to resume the discussion, also in the context of the future process on the attacks of 22 March. I think that a debate on this in Parliament is certainly useful. I have heard that you also provide for higher penalties in the new Criminal Code. We're definitely gonna try the people here. We simply believe that these facts should not be automatically corrected for budgetary reasons. Above all, we must ensure that the public prosecutor has sufficient budgetary resources to carry out his task.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u33	Mr President, Minister, I am not going to tell you anything by telling you that the Verviers courthouse is in a deplorable state, so that some courtrooms are closed for the time being. Even more serious, the age of the building is such that some parts must be sealed. For security reasons, the wing facing the square had to be closed. I know you've been there several times, as you've done in other places – in Namur, for example. You are in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, but also of Justice. As a result, your departmental portfolio brings together all the expertise to act on these issues. However, we have learned that it will take about five years for you to start work. You will understand that this deadline is totally unacceptable not only for judicial personnel, but also for those who are litigants. Indeed, a proper administration of justice also requires a proper reception in terms of security. Mr Minister, could we know the precise planning of the various phases of the work that will take place in Verviers? Is the five-year deadline announced realistic? What measures are you going to take to ensure a dignified and respectful functioning of the judiciary as well as of the litigants? More generally, what is the time frame for urgent work that is or will be undertaken in other courthouses?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Matz, the questions you are asking are unfortunately too important to answer in such a short time. If the President allows me, I will give you the written answer in a few seconds, so that you are fully informed. The situation of many courthouses in the capital (Namur) and the sub-capitals of Wallonia – I am thinking of the cities of Liège, Mons, Tournai and Verviers and I do not want to insult their inhabitants at all using the notion of sub-capital – is really deplorable. This is not the fault of this last government, nor of the previous government. It is the fault of all governments since the Second World War, of which you have been a member, of which the President's party has been a member and of which we have been a part, like others. This means that if we all plead with the European Commission for investments to be taken into account in calculating the 3% and the budget deficit, we know that it is to make investments within a shorter time frame than five years. But this requires a deployment of forces and energy that is rare in our country. It takes ten years to build the Haren prison, because of all our complicated licensing, regionalization and other problems. If we encounter these problems in Verviers, Liège, Tournai and Mons, the situation will be the same. There are plans for everything, also for Verviers. We acquired a building under construction, facing the courthouse, for an area of 2,000 square meters and 657 square meters. This building is in the process of first installation with the aim of Justice. I dare not tell you, as with every book, how long it will take. I hope much less than five years. I have really done everything, as Minister of Justice and now the Régie, to move the issues forward. Be aware that the next government has a duty to speed things up, but that will require licensing procedures and the deployment of extraordinary forces for our country, which is slow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u35	Minister, thank you for that answer. You're not teaching me anything by saying that procedures are super-long. There is, of course, a shared responsibility, but I think that before you there is also a heavy responsibility to have not made any progress on the Régie des Bâtiments, mainly for justice. I am thinking in particular of the person who preceded you at the Régie des Bâtiments. I am not looking for the reasons why this was not done. I would point out that the acceleration has taken place since you took over the file and that you have the combined competence of both subjects. You have put a number of things forward. While it was the responsibility of the future government to put the turbo on, it was also the responsibility of the previous government. It is regrettable that this has not been done optimally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the day before yesterday the court of appeal in Ghent made a remarkable statement in the context of a tax dispute. If a company makes an apartment by the sea available free of charge to its manager and if that manager uses that apartment for private purposes only, to go on holiday, that apartment is tax deductible from corporation tax, the judge considers. I would like everyone to enjoy their holidays, but of course I would like to do so at their own expense. Surely it is totally unfair that many people who pay the full amount of taxes correctly should pay for the tax advantages of holiday apartments of managers? I can't explain that. To young people who have to work hard to acquire their own homes or to the tens of thousands of families waiting for a social home in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, I do not get explained that they have to pay for the cost of holiday apartments for managers. That's the world upside down, isn't it? It is about a judge's ruling and, in our democratic rule of law, it is not for us to judge the work of judges. However, the judge based his ruling on the law and we make those laws. There's a gross injustice in a law that makes what I've just described possible. Minister, do you agree with me that tax legislation cannot allow holiday apartments of managers to be tax deductible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u37	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, I would first like to outline the framework. When is a cost deductible? A cost shall be deductible if the expenditure is incurred by the taxable person within a certain taxable period, if it is expenditure intended to acquire or retain a taxable income and if there is evidence to justify it. There is little discussion about the taxability of such costs, and there is often discussion about their deductibility. As you say, I am not allowed to speak on the matter itself, but there is a lot of general discussion about the deductibility of apartments, whether on the coast or not, in companies. There have been rulings in cassation and appeal, about as much in one direction as in the other. The real question is, of course, how Parliament, as legislative power, or the government as executive power, deals with this. In my view, it is up to Parliament or a government in full power to decide whether such costs of deductibility can be excluded. This kind of thing exists today in the legislation. Expenditure on hunting or recreational craft is explicitly excluded from deductibility. As a minister in current affairs, I am rather limited in the positions I may take, but I would nevertheless like to point out a direction. We have made enormous efforts in recent years to reduce the corporate tax faculty rate. This will fall to 25% next year and the first EUR 100,000 has fallen to 20%. A great deal of effort is therefore being made to bring down the social tariff. Perhaps it makes sense, then, to take additional steps on what should be deductible and what should not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u38	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Four years ago, Minister Van Overtveldt said the same and promised to ensure that second stays cannot be accommodated in company structures. That was the answer of a minister in full power. However, he did not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is easier to believe in sintering classrooms than in fair taxation. If we do not work on fair taxation in the years to come, and that means no more or no less than that everyone makes their fair contribution, people will lose faith in us even more quickly, in politics than in sintering class.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u39	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, tomorrow it will be St.Nicolas, and today the St.Nicolas has given us the honour of visiting us at the request of CNCD-11 11 11. He has come to tell us one very simple thing: 600 billion dollars are missing in the pockets of states, 600 billion gone in the form of tax gifts to multinationals, and he simply asks us to stop giving them such gifts. Why? The findings are very clear. First, the state funds are empty. They no longer know how to render basic services to their population in terms of education, health care, mobility, energy transition, etc. Secondly, there is a major tax injustice. Today, it is workers, SMEs and local artisans who pay their fair share of taxes, while multinationals use numerous tax schemes to contribute only a minimum, if not at all, to the system. Thirdly, this system is inefficient socio-economically. Since all governments are doing the same thing at the same time, i.e. reducing business taxation to be, supposedly, more attractive, the gains in terms of competitiveness are zero. In other words, our tax revenues are dropping for nothing. Is this a fatality, minister? No. Proposals exist and are on the table. This is particularly the case at the OECD level where there is a proposal for unit taxation on multinationals. This is a first step towards the necessary and urgent tax harmonisation. Minister, what is the status of the negotiations for unit taxation of multinationals at the OECD level? What is the position of our representative in this context? Have you given him an imperative and proactive mandate to contribute to the successful conclusion of this urgent negotiation for tax justice as well as for our public finances?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u40	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for your question. You're asking me one now every week. I take it as a compliment. I share your concern for a fair tax framework. But in these discussions, care must be taken not to caricature. You tend to say that multinationals pay nothing and that SMEs are discriminated against. The reality is often much more nuanced. Organizing the confrontation between the big and the small is of no use because one needs the other. You specifically mentioned the OECD. You know that we share this effort. We have adopted a pragmatic position and, above all, we want to adapt corporate tax to a new digital era. But care must also be taken not to complicate things more than they are. Our country must ensure that we do not end up in the situation of losing a lot of tax revenue. We are indeed moving towards taxation where customers oppose each other. For a country like Belgium, where there are many exporting companies, if we go in that direction, we could lose a lot of tax revenue and that is not the point. A process of public consultation is feasible in all of these discussions. For example, recently, Oxfam used this right of consultation and a meeting was held in my firm to discuss it. In a world that is increasingly globalizing and where technology plays a crucial role, it is an important issue. Let's not abuse caricatures and talk!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u41	Minister, thank you. Of course, we must not oppose the big and the small. But we know that there are dozens of multinationals in the world that have overwhelming incomes and do not contribute to the tax system. That's a problem. You're talking about investigations. Oxfam did make one. It shows that the Belgian population is ready to fundamentally review the tax system and finds that multinationals do not pay enough. We know that we are in an unfair system. Your role is to ensure that everyone pays contributions in proportion to their income, that the most affluent people make a greater effort and that everyone pays the tax due properly. We ask you to make sure that multinationals pay their fair share.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u42	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 2 December last year, a young Somali of nineteen years of age was the subject of an attempt at expulsion, or rather, I should say, to be exact, of a fourth attempt at expulsion. This young man filed a complaint for previous facts which, if they were to prove to be correct, would be of extreme gravity: prolonged detention, disproportionate use of force, disregard of the rights of the victims, handcuffing the siphon of a sink and I pass it. Some of these elements are the subject of a question to your colleague Mr. De Crem, as far as the police's attitude is concerned. I will not go back to that for longer, since the complaint is still pending. As people who respect the rights of defence and the presumption of innocence, we will wait to comment on the facts. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I wonder about the dramatic events that have been reported in the press, about which I, like many of my colleagues, have also been able to watch videos and read articles. What could have happened this December 2nd? In the latter attempt, a MSF employee and another passenger, who opposed the expulsion, were reportedly disembarked from the aircraft and placed in pre-trial detention. Can you confirm this information? If it's true, for what reason? This removal is aimed at an applicant who has been locked up for ten months. Do you confirm that this young man has been locked up all this time, that is, twice as long as the maximum period allowed? The young Somali was reportedly seen by a doctor who did not find him able to travel and be expelled. Minister, do you confirm the existence of a medical certificate not made to fly concerning this person? How do you explain the continuation of the attempted removal? I believe that an appeal in extreme urgency would have been brought against this decision. Was it treated yes or no? How are the practices of the Aliens Office evaluated, and by what external authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u43	Mr President, Mr Rigot, the return policy has always followed the same principles: voluntary, if possible; forced, if necessary. The forced return of illegal residents is therefore the very last step in the process. They are therefore always free to leave the Territory voluntarily. It is only in cases of refusal that confinement and forced removal are used. Remoteness is still difficult, but it is subject to very strict rules, directives and controls. The first forced attempt is still non-binding and without escort. If the person resists, the operation shall be temporarily discontinued. Which was the case. A check is carried out systematically. Each incident is investigated, as will be the case in this case. As you said, the first attempt was carried out by the police. My colleague Pieter De Crem will give you answers to this question. On the other hand, I can inform you that an official of the Aliens Office was present, as well as a social worker. One official and two directors also supervised the process of the removal in question. Just like Mr. From Crem, I have been informed of this week's attempted removal, but I have received no indication that the guidelines would not have been followed correctly in this case. Yes, there was a document did to fly, as well as all the necessary measures were taken. In addition, it was confirmed that this was an action organised by third parties with the aim of disrupting the distance. I believe that no one wins when such a situation occurs. Preventing an expulsion merely postpones the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u44	Madam Minister, like my group, I obviously fully agree with you on the need to enforce administrative or judicial decisions, otherwise we would be preyed upon – whatever the subject – at a full no man's land. You also stressed the need to respect the rules, especially when it comes to human beings, which require a measured and structured application of the necessary decisions. Whatever our skin colour, our kind, our convictions, we can never be riddled with human dignity, minister. I hope – and I am convinced – that you will not fail to follow up on the report of the Aliens Office on possible incidents that may have occurred – whether it be by the Office or by third parties, as you mentioned. It is indeed essential, no matter what, to remind Paul Ricœur that "something is due to the human being because he is human"; and this something, Madam Minister, is dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u45	Madam Minister, I have just questioned you in committee about the lack of a financial framework for dental hygienists, a new profession that has been working for about six months. You admitted at that time that there is no system of reimbursement for them, but you noted that this is also the case for other professions. At the same time, you promised earlier that there would be a refund system by July this year or some kind of budget allocated to the dental hygienists. However, there is still no such solution. This creates great uncertainty among dental hygienists who, because of a lack of reimbursement of their treatments, cannot be fully used for what they need, namely prevention in oral care. The RIZIV would suspect that there are abuses in the sector and will therefore carry out checks. Madam Secretary, are the reports that the RIZIV will check? Could it be true that the reimbursement or reimbursement system is lagging behind because there are no dental hygienists operating in Wallonia yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u46	Mrs Gijbels, at present only dental hygienists have graduated in Flanders. According to the Royal Decree of 21 November 2018, they could be recognised from 30 June 2019. Training started this academic year in Brussels and Wallonia. Until now, there is no separate financing model to compensate the newly graduate dental hygienists for their performance and care provided, but we do know that all graduate dental hygienists are at work. Although they are paid like any bachelor's degree in paid employment. Point 3.1 of the amendment clause to the National Dental Health Fund Agreement of 2017-2018 provides for an investigation into the integration of dental hygienists under Article 56, §2 of the GLU Act. The question of a financing model is at issue, as the first batch is at work. Although we do not yet have scientific research into what those newly graduate dental hygienists are doing, there is a real risk that dental hygienists will only be used for the removal of tartar and short consultations that are attestated by the dentist. This would ignore the preventive tasks and interventions assigned to the dental hygienists through the KB. The proposal for a financing model of the National Committee on Dental Medical Funds confirmed my fears. That is why we are looking for a different model of care provision in all parts of dentistry, both in preventive and curative care. Of course, that takes time. We are currently working on drawing up a study concept for which all available information in the field is consulted. That will then be proposed in the Dentomut.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u47	Madam Minister, I have not yet received an answer to the question of whether effective controls are planned by the RIZIV. After all, it would turn the world upside down if you recognized the dental hygienists when there was no budget to provide for a reimbursement system but the RIZIV would check for possible abuses in the sector. You probably know better than I do that every euro spent on prevention means 3 euro savings in healthcare. For the dental hygienists but certainly also for the patients I hope that this will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u48	Madam Minister, it is well known: the workload of our nurses is too high. You know that a long time ago, and our patients feel the same way every day. The fewer nurses per patient, the greater the number of patients does not receive the necessary care due to lack of time. The fewer nurses per patient in a hospital, the greater the risk of death. A recent study by the University of Antwerp confirms this once again and now also contains a figure: three patients per thousand die unexpectedly because of the staff shortage and lack of time. Sp.a has long asked for more hands and around the bed, better staffing in the jargon: nurses, care professionals, support staff, the care chain. Better staffing can ensure the necessary quality of care. Madam Secretary, I use a quote: "Time is money," said the manager. "Care is taking time," said the healthcare provider. Madam Secretary, what are you doing so that a nurse can and may take the necessary time to provide quality care today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u49	I forgot to mention that Mrs. Gijbels was making her maiden speech. Congratulations! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u50	Madam Secretary, sometimes politics is about life and death. That sounds harsh, but from the investigation that was reported in the newspaper today, that becomes painfully clear. I congratulate our healthcare providers, because our care and care providers are at the top in Europe. However, they have only two hands and only so many hours in a shift. Hospitals with a staff shortage see more patients die unexpectedly, we read today. Nine of the ten departments of the research are understaffed to provide quality care. That's a problem all over the country. That is a problem in hospitals in Genk, in Liège, in Brussels and in Ostend. Taking care of people is threatening to become bandwork in our country, because our nurses do not have enough time to take care of their patients. In that case, politics is about life and death. We need more hands in care, more hands on the hospital beds. The savings in health care are clashing with their borders, like our government in current affairs, I fear, and that is unacceptable. Madam Secretary, the debate is not new. Last year, in the same discussion, Zorgnet-Icuro literally pointed out that you can't keep saving without accidents. What did you do with that advice? How will you provide more hands in the healthcare sector? Nurses are too busy with care tasks, according to the research. If they can focus more on their medical work, it makes the workload more human. I am not asking for a blank cheque, but I am asking for a political choice about the destination of our money in healthcare.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u51	Minister, a few weeks ago, during a white blouses demonstration, a nurse put up this sign. I brought it to you to read it to you. It says, "Out-of-service personnel = patients at risk." Today, in the newspaper, we have all read the study of the University of Antwerp which confirms that this sign is not a slogan but a reality. The more patients are assigned to a nurse, the more deaths among patients. The more patients a nurse needs to take care of, the more people risk dying. The evidence confirms that. As a general practitioner, the patients tell me. The last time I went to the hospital, I was told: "Doctor, nurses can't do it anymore. They run in every direction." The nurses say so too. "Every morning, I go to work with a ball on my stomach. I wonder what disaster is going to happen," said a nurse. "I'm afraid I'm wrong," said another, "because if I give the wrong medicine to the patients, they may die." Most nurses do this job to treat people, save lives. But today, the sector is in crisis. They're pushed to the exit door. They're on the edge of the burn-out and they're under pressure. Recently, the PTB voted in favour of a EUR 67 million refinancing of the sector. It's an oxygen bubble for the area. What is the actual allocation of resources to the sector? We know that in Belgium there is, on average, one nurse for ten patients, while elsewhere in Europe there is one nurse for eight patients. Minister, what is your plan to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u52	Madam Minister, research at the University of Antwerp shows, as we have known for a long time, that the shortage of nurses costs lives. We're not prepared for the ageing wave. Moreover, the profession of nurse is a bottleneck profession, knowing that there is a huge commitment of nurses today. These are serious findings. A number of things have happened in the previous legislature, including the recognition of the specialist nurse, the IFIC, the extension of the Social Maribel Fund recently. However, much more is needed to have more helping hands around the patient's bed. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, it's too crazy for words that we would have nurses around empty beds. You were ordered in the government agreement to cut down hospital beds. What's the status there? Secondly, it is noted that on certain services there are too many nurses, too few on other services. You had the authority and a huge freedom to reprogram. What happened to that programming power? Thirdly, the initiative of the hospital networks, which is a very good initiative because cooperation helps, is for the time being an empty box. This should enter into force from 1 January. What's the plan today? How far do you stand with the implementing decisions of these care assignments? Fourthly, a CD&V stick horse, the recognition of the team nurse. Tasks may be outsourced to healthcare professionals. We have tabled a legislative proposal on this matter. Will you support that proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u53	Madam Minister, four speakers and many questions. I'll give you a four to five minutes for your global answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u54	Mr President, that is generous. Ladies and gentlemen, like you, I am not surprised, because the relationship between a higher number of nurses around the patient and mortality and quality of care is well known. The relationship between the level of education and mortality is also well known. The 2018 report The future of nursing recommends the training of bachelor nurses and we are fully committed to this. In this sense, this study confirms what was already known internationally. It's just that the number of nurses just pulling up isn't the answer. That's what this investigator says. Every shift is different. The complexity and intensity of care varies from service to service. So determining the number of nurses per shift is customization. The Knowledge Centre has therefore prepared a report that identifies whether the current besteff measures are sufficiently adapted to the higher health intensity of more elderly people and more people with comorbidity. Our care landscape needs to evolve. We expect the publication of this report at the beginning of next year. Our current funding system provides additional funding in proportion to the severity of the nurse care provided through the BFM. In order to attract more nurses, we have invested massively in the attractiveness of the profession: 500 million extra for new social agreements in the period 2017-2020 As a result of the choice made by the social partners, the focus of these additional benefits is on additional working conditions, with a view to their implementation in the Joint Committee 330. But come on, it's about more leave, a better schedule of hours, better holiday arrangements, more planning in advance, and pay according to work and less according to seniority. By increasing the quality of care, mortality is affected, more than just by the number of nurses. Support on the services themselves is also a determining factor, ranging from care professional to logistical support, because it is about having enough hands on the work feed to alleviate all concerns. Another factor is the working environment itself, where the organisation of the service and the facilities made available to the nurse can make a difference. In Health at a Glance, from 2018, we read that there are more nurses per inhabitant in Belgium than on average in Europe. In Belgium there are 11.2 nurses per 1,000 inhabitants, while the European average is 8.4 nurses per 1,000. What's going to go wrong? If we compare the number of nurses per patient, we see the opposite ratio. How come the hospitals don't get their vacancies filled? How come there are no more hands around the patient if we still have so many more nurses than in other countries? What are these people doing there? Do those other jobs? Aren't they with the patient? That is why we have made efforts to give nurses the opportunity to be genuine nurses again and to do the clinical work for which they were previously trained for three years and now four years. I read in the press today that the care ambassador agrees. That is why we have worked on these task shifts and have entrusted simple actions to healthcare professionals and logistics staff. There are also avoidable complications and interventions in our country that we must do something about. It is not just about the beds, Mrs Van Hoof, but also about overconsumption. We have understaffed departments, with people who can be moved. It is time to implement the law on locoregional networks. They start in three weeks. Recognition standards must also be established at the state level. So we have worked on a global vision for the nursing care domain. You mentioned some elements. It involves better use of expertise, job shift work, measures to reduce workload, such as support staff, and an adapted working environment. We must, together with the sector and the Länder, continue on the path we have taken. It may have taken too long for a global vision to come, but we must continue with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u55	You spoke for a little over five minutes. You had four or five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u56	Mr President, Minister, I can give you one thing with certainty. The report of the Knowledge Centre will also point out that more is needed and that there are still shortcomings in some hospital departments. We should not doubt that. That will certainly be the case. Secondly, nurses who are able to observe clinically and see connections are necessary, important and absolutely necessary for good and quality health insurance. The nurses, especially in a hospital, are present all day in the department of the hospital. You referred to it yourself. The care ambassador expresses it strikingly and correctly: nurses must have the time to see, hear, smell, feel, listen and focus all their senses so that they can provide good and quality care. Madam Minister, our model of care should promote this and not oppose it. Mr President, I would like to make one more point. Madam Secretary, perhaps or hopefully this morning on radio station MNM you have heard the testimonies of fourth-year bachelor nurses. They give two messages: a reduced workload and more hands on and around the bed. Secondly, they ask you to let them do what they study for, namely to provide quality care, without overwhelming them with administrative and logistical tasks. (...) [[microphone is disabled]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I hear a great deal from you. However, I shall analyse your answer in three main points. First of all, customization costs money. Secondly, we need a structural approach. Thirdly, we absolutely need a global vision. I see a minister with full authority in front of me. I'm not just looking at you, I'm looking at all of us, at all 150 MPs present here. How long will we tolerate the lingering? We have a budgetary crisis. In social and climate terms, we face enormous challenges. Now there is also the problem of hospitals. How long will we tolerate the fact that parties are more involved in political stratego than in forming a fully-fledged government that is helping our country forward? It is clear that this country urgently needs a full government with a joint project for all Belgians. Green and Ecolo will always be a partner and we will always take responsibility for the sake of the patients and of all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u58	Minister, many nurses are leaving the profession today. The study is clear: more nurses are needed. There is a need to improve the working conditions and wages of nurses in order to encourage those who have left the profession to return, to encourage those who intend to do so to give up their project, and to encourage those who work part-time to work full-time. There is also a need to engage in occupations that help nurses, such as nursing assistants. You have said little about the funds needed to implement such measures. Now, it takes a lot of money. We know that funds have been released. It's a first step, but we need more money. Indeed, there is a question of life and death, of patients who must be able to be treated. We need to invest in this sector. We will be next to the "white blouses" in the coming months to ensure that this money is allocated to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Everyone wants safe and good care, as you have clearly explained in all the initiatives you have already taken. However, I believe that there are still quick wins possible. We really need more nurses and the Flemish government agreement provides for the recognition of HBO5's, the recognition of team nurses. You'll have to work on that, and we'll have more nurses around the bed right away. Your party has approved this at Flemish level and now we have to deal with it at federal level. Another quick win can be found at the hospital networks. Cooperation helps and it is intended that attractive hospital networks create attractive jobs. We are waiting impatiently for this law to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, our country must constantly and increasingly fight drug trafficking. Synthetic drugs continue to develop and ecstasy is one of them. The Scientific Institute of Public Health has carried out a new survey on the consumption of ecstasy in our country. The news is not happy. In 2013, 22,900 people responded that they had consumed them during the year. Today, 92,000 people say they have already consumed them in the last 12 months. Of course, only those who have agreed to participate in the survey and to recognize this consumption are mentioned here. These figures are all the more compelling as the 15-34 year olds represent the highest range of consumption. In the face of this, the public authorities have a role to play. We must remember that MDMA, a prohibited substance, is a neurotoxic psychostimulant and that the health risks are known: hyperthermia, depression, exhaustion, risk of serious allergy; all this, not to mention the consequences of mixtures with other products such as other medicines. While it appears that this drug has been made more accessible over the last 10 years, seizures of these pills in our country have exploded: 62,000 in 2008 and nearly 500,000 in 2017. According to Eurotox, it also appears that other non-prohibited substances and molecules are used to produce ecstasy. What are your findings regarding the results of this investigation and what can be considered a trivialization of this drug? What protective measures can be taken quickly to curb such consumption? Has an analysis of non-prohibited substances used to produce MDMA been conducted by the Public Health FPS to control and limit their use?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u61	Mrs Taquin, we see increasing doses in MDMA tablets. This may indicate some standardization, but we also receive signals from associations in the field that users want to be better informed. However, we have so far not seen a significant increase in hospital admissions, the main cause of which would be abuse of MDMA. We can follow this indicator through the registration of applications for treatment which is carried out in all cases of substance abuse in hospitals and specialized centres. As Minister of Health, I can draw attention to the dangers of these products. Sciensano often analyses such products that reach him as a result of seizures, for example. We then send an alert to the various stakeholders via the Belgian Early Warning System, hoping in this way to warn users against a product in circulation that is even more dangerous than others. These analyses are of course also transmitted to the judicial and police partners. The General Drug Policy Unit, within the administration of the Public Health FPS, also brings together representatives of my colleagues the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. It is well placed to examine the evolution of these phenomena. At the same time, the evolving synthetic drug market will need to be monitored even more closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u62	Madam Minister, thank you. As they say, disseminating information helps reduce the risk of consumption. I count on you, as you have already done in other areas, to work together in the framework of the Interdepartmental Conference on Public Health, so that we can continue our efforts in terms of prevention, but above all protection. I shall return to your colleague from the Interior, too, with regard to repression.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u63	I don't want to make you nervous, Mr Roggeman, but this will be your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u64	Mr Minister, the day before yesterday, SNCB and Infrabel were condemned in the Buizingen trial, the biggest train disaster since World War II. A year of exhaustion before the court ended with that. It is an important step in the processing process for the survivors of the 19 deadly victims and the 310 injured. However, it has not yet been fully completed, because Infrabel and SNCB did not yet want to say that they accept the judgment and will not appeal. Minister, what financial reserves do SNCB and Infrabel provide for compensation for the victims? In the meantime, how many of the 109 recommendations made by the Special Committee on Parliament's Buizingen Committee have not yet been put into practice? Will SNCB and Infrabel appeal against the verdict? What position will the government take on a possible continuation of the process through the directors of government in the companies? Do you think it is morally acceptable that, after ten years of dragging justice, there would still be no clarity for the victims and their families, and that the railway companies would continue the process?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u65	Congratulations, Mr Roggeman, on your maiden speech, which was perfect in time. The question was addressed to Minister Bellot, who is abroad. Mr Clarinval, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for the Budget and Civil Service, in charge of the National Lottery and Science Policy, replaced him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u66	Mr Roggeman, I have received an answer from the Minister for Mobility, who apologizes, to your question, which may not be complete. It is good that there is finally a verdict on the tragic accident. The victims and their families have been waiting for this for years. Infrabel and SNCB have informed us that they will continue to study the verdict. On a political level, it now seems advisable for the Mobility Committee to take the initiative to analyse the verdict in the light of the Committee's recommendations on Buizingen. We also take this opportunity to emphasise once again that no savings were made on the ERTMS safety system, not by the current government or by the previous one. Such tragedies must never happen again. We have taken the necessary steps in financial and legal terms. The ERTMS master plan is on schedule, as the Committee of the Regions was able to hear from the railway companies on 23 April this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u67	Thank you, Minister. For ten years now, ladies and gentlemen, the victims of Buizingen and their families have been waiting for clarity! They are not only victims of a terrible train accident, they are also victims of a dragging course of justice. However, they have the right to clarity, the right to the possibility of closing the story after so many years. Those responsible must look them in the eye and compensate for the damage, at least as far as possible. In an appeal procedure, which would once again set the legal mill in motion for the next few years, no one, but no one, will benefit the victims and the next of kin in the first place. We can't do that. I therefore call on the government, through its government commissioners at Infrabel and SNCB, to take a clear stand against the opening of an appeal procedure. SNCB and Infrabel must accept the process and assume their responsibilities and thus show the respect they owe to the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u68	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 5 December 2018: one car blown up; 6 March 2019: three cars set on fire; 8 March: two grenades thrown under cars; 19 March: one car blown up; 22 July: two grenades; 2 September: five cars destroyed; 27 November: a grenade thrown into a house but not exploded; 28 November: a wrong house shot with a kalashnikov, but not grieved, that was put up on 2 December and the right house was shot with a kalashnikov; two days ago, finally, a grenade was thrown against an apartment building. If we didn't have that kindergarten clock, I could have gone on. Seventy attacks in three years! When I hear a thousand bombs and grenades, I don't think of a Tintin comic book, but I think of Antwerp. We have even seen Janssen & Janssen appear: Minister Jambon and Mr De Wever announcing their Power Plan. Then it would all be dealt with at some point. That Power Plan would be evaluated even after a year. I haven't seen an evaluation yet. However, there is. Some people already have it in their hands. When will the evaluation of the Power Plan finally be made public? Is it true that these conclusions state that customs are still understaffed, that the federal police are still understaffed and that the federal and local police are killing each other? But above all, Minister, how will you continue to look away? How long before a first innocent victim falls? What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u69	Mr President, Mr van Grieken, first of all I would like to say to you and to Parliament that this kind of violent criminal excesses do not fit in with our society and I strongly condemn them. The investigations to which you referred are conducted by the federal judicial police, under the leadership of the investigating judge and the court of Antwerp. The various dossiers have already received our particular attention. Suspects have been identified and arrested. I do not want to give you the opportunity to give the impression that nothing is happening, because that is not the case, which is misleading public opinion. Five more searches were carried out yesterday and three suspects were apprehended. Two of them have already been arraigned and confirmed by the investigating judge, the third person is arraigned today. There is the secret of the investigation, which means that I have little or nothing to say about it. A press release was issued by the Antwerp Office, which outlined the general framework in which the various efforts were made. I follow that problem very closely. There will also be a permanent evaluation. The result will be announced in the next few days and perhaps next week. I am in constant contact with the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police, the Director-General of the judicial police and the judicial director of Antwerp. All necessary federal capacity and expertise are deployed. However, I would like to add the following. Within the tasks of the federal police and the other security policy actors, it is inevitable that further, new and higher capacity should be deployed to address not only structural but also resources and personnel, in a special and different manner, the problem of drug trafficking in Antwerp. For the sake of clarity, the next Minister for Security and Home Affairs will have to pay due attention to this. This should become a separate chapter in the new coalition agreement. However, the legalisation of drugs, which you are proposing, is not the solution to solve these illegal and criminal practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u70	Thank you for your answer, Minister. However, it is rather regrettable that this study does not come to light until questions are asked here. The budgets will only be released after Flemish Interest calls attention to this. In Antwerp, they're actually laughing at the situation. The numerous returned IS fighters in Antwerp have a better chance of arriving at a grenade attack in Antwerp than in Aleppo. The "war on drugs" is a "drug war." It's the least of my worries that these Moroccan drug families are killing each other. However, how long will it take for an innocent victim to fall? The first task of a government is to guarantee the safety of its citizens. The fear must change camp. It is not the innocent citizens, the innocent Antwerper, who must be terrified, but the drug criminals. So finally make it work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u71	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the free trade agreement with Mercosur is one of the largest trade agreements ever. The agreement opens our borders to imports of large quantities of agricultural products from Mercosur countries. However, there is also a great deal of protest against the agreement, of agricultural organisations and of various countries, Austria, Ireland and France. The Walloon Government has also indicated its intention to reject the agreement with Mercosur. There are a number of reasons for this. Meat products from Mercosur countries are of questionable quality. Up to 20% of chicken meat would be infected with salmonella. Large parts of the Amazon forest are cut down, burned to the ground for industrial agriculture. People are also taking a walk there with animal welfare. None of this is important in Mercosur countries either. Moreover, imports of cheap products from Mercosur countries put pressure on our local farms, companies already suffering from the effects of diseases such as swine fever, bluetongue and chicken virus and the great drought, while making considerable efforts for sustainability and investment to comply with the rules in force. Minister, what is your position and that of the FPS Economy in relation to the trade agreement with Mercosur countries? What position will be taken at the Round Table on this matter? Is the federal government prepared to reject the Mercosur agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u72	Mr Gilissen, I congratulate you on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u73	Mr Gilissen, on 11 July there was a meeting with the Belgian agricultural sector at Rue de la Loi 16. It provided an opportunity to discuss in detail the quotas from the Mercosur-EU agreement. The measures contained in the agreement on unfair competition and food safety were also addressed. It was agreed that the government would follow very closely the evolution of the file. We have requested an impact study from the FPS Economy. Its publication was announced before the beginning of 2020. In the meantime, I've already taken a series of steps. In July 2019 I wrote a letter to then European Commissioner Andriukaitis; I also wrote to European Commissioner Hogan and I wrote a letter to the Agriculture Ministers of France, Luxembourg, Germany and the Netherlands. I reiterated the importance of strict application of European sanitary rules to the products of the Mercosur trade agreement. Mr Gilissen, it will of course be up to the Members of Parliament to decide on the matter, while it is up to the next federal government to define the policies it will defend when the treaty will have to be ratified. Mr President, I will conclude. I have already indicated in committee that for me personally, the agreement does not contain sufficient guarantees today, either for the health of the consumer or for respect for the environment or for the protection of our family farming.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would just like to emphasise that our sustainable local businesses are an important pillar of our economy. They provide employment and a positive balance of trade. Of course, it is also important that we do not import products that are available here from other countries and travel halfway around the world with them. That's not ecologically sound. That is why the Flemish Interest has prepared a motion for a resolution, with which we wish to reject the Mercosur trade agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u75	You remained within the speaking time allotted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u76	Madam Secretary, I do not know whether we are still beer drinkers here in the hemisphere, with our high wages, but AB InBev employees are working day in and day out for our world-famous beers. Yet they get absolutely no respect from the employer. A company that is master and master at world level in brewing beers does not even bother to pay the wages properly. The paychecks aren't correct. One sometimes has to wait months for amounts of more than 200 euros. That may not be a lot for you, but it is for those people. Do you know how much profit AB InBev made last year? That's EUR 2.7 billion. Do you know how much taxes they've paid on that? That's 0.6%. For workers, the workload increases year after year: harder work for less security, for a wage that is not even paid correctly. Nobody's gonna take this anymore. With such profits, we can at least demand job security and a proper payout of wages. After two weeks of consultation, the board doesn't admit a millimeter. Instead of respecting social dialogue, they immediately call for the assistance of the judiciary. Through a one-sided petition, they send bailiffs to break the picket and shut down the mouths of the many workers. Madam Secretary, strike is a right. Do you think it is normal that the pay slips are not properly paid in one of the largest companies in Belgium? Do you control the compliance of multinationals with Belgian social legislation? What about respect for social dialogue and the right to strike? Following this scandal, will you organise an audit on AB InBev and other multinationals to ensure that employees' rights are respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u77	Mr Colebunders, the right to strike cannot be affected. We want to keep it that way. I am sure that this is also a matter of a lot of international delays and is not under discussion. The procedure of the one-sided petition that the employer can address to the court in the event of a collective conflict must be handled with caution. In such a procedure of one-sided petitions, there is no contradictory debate. You also ask about the content. It's not possible for me to go into the judge's ruling. Nor are we aware of all the facts in the file. However, if a party considers today that the unilateral petition has not been properly used, or if it is affected by the exercise of the right to strike and there are no acts of violence, damage to material, financial damage to third parties, then it is always possible to challenge it by judicial means. In 2002, the then Minister for Work, Ms Onkelinx, concluded a gentlemen's agreement with the social partners. We have tried with the previous government to modernise the content of the gentlemen's agreement. We have asked the Group of Ten, but unfortunately it has not succeeded. However, there is a very clear commitment from employers and workers to avoid legal proceedings. A clear priority was given to social dialogue, which should be given every opportunity. For me, that agreement remains in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u78	Madam Minister, the employers talk about the gentlemen's agreement at every strike, but if the management has refused to listen to the staff for years, then there is no gentlemen's agreement anymore. Respect comes from both sides. I've been a union man for years. If a multinational can extort people for years and not treat them correctly, then everyone thinks it's normal, but if people come to the streets for their children's sandwiches, they're criminals. We can't do that anymore. The one-sided petitions are being used over and over again. We oppose these legal attacks on the right to strike. One can continue to send as many bailiffs as one wants, but strike is a right. We will continue to defend it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u79	End of oral questions. I note that this is the first time that we have completed Question Time about within the agreed time limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u80	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u81	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u82	Mr President, I would like to refer to the written report, and I would also like to intervene briefly. I don't know if that's possible next time. [[Assent]] Mr President, I would like to thank you for your initiative in making this legislative proposal, because we are indeed faced with a serious lack of candidates for the CREG Disciplinary Board. It is not yet the case that the Disciplinary Board of the CREG often has to meet. In committee, we have talked about the fact that we very often call on magistrates for such matters and that we may be asking them over. I think it is a good thing to keep the magistrates' slopes and see if she will take us to candidates. If it does not take us to candidates, then we must change course and perhaps also call on lawyers with a certain track record. We send our magistrates to all kinds of disciplinary councils in all kinds of sectors. They are actually asked for everything in the long run and perhaps there are legal profiles that would be equally appropriate. So I suggest we take it pragmatically and see if it takes us somewhere. If that is not the case, we must take a different approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u83	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this problem which has been our concern for a long time. You will recall that in the previous legislature there have been several calls to settle the matter and that it has been dragging on. I absolutely support Mrs van der Straeten's piste to play briefly on the ball. If a subsequent call does not bring us closer to a solution, then we must react firmly to it and see how it can be done, because that means that this slope may not produce immediate results. This piste must first be looked at to see if there is a possibility. If that is not the case, then we should not hesitate for long to take another step.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u84	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u85	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (680/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (680/3) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u87	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Servais Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (803/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (803/3) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u90	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u91	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 25 (5) of the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, the Court approves the budget. In accordance with Article 25, § 5, paragraph 4, of the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, the budget is approved by the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u92	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (813/1) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (813/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur, Mr Senesael, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u93	Mr President, our group will approve the organisation's budget. Of course, we had a number of questions at the time of the discussion, because we have to see that the budget is increasing for the first time in years. It is the duty of every good driver to check the reason for that increase. We have been convinced that many efficiency measures have been taken in recent years, so that the budget has remained the same in previous years. We believe that the current increase is justified. The CREG, of course, has a very important role to play in the energy debate in our country. This role will not be reduced in the coming years. On the contrary. In committee we have been discussing for some time the energy supply of our country and the capacity compensation mechanism or CRM, which many here will know and otherwise will know, because this will often be discussed in Parliament. The CREG has an important role to play in this. She's got extra work to do. She indicated that, too. It will be given additional tasks in relation to Europe. The CREG also warns us about overshooting. This message from the CREG must certainly be taken into account in the debate. Today we were able to take note of a study on energy poverty in our country carried out by the CREG, which also has an important role to play in relation to all energy users in our country. Colleagues, there is a major problem here. The numbers are what they are. Energy prices have risen considerably over the last ten years, and we are now seeing the consequences of this. At least 400,000 families in our country live in energy poverty according to the CREG. That's not nothing. The majority of those 400,000 households are related to.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's really the biggest problem. The CREG also published rather disturbing figures on the social tariff. In ten years' time, the number of people using the social tariff for electricity has tripled from 146 000 to 438,000. So that's about a lot of people. I would like to invite all my fellow Members to reflect on this and to pursue a strong policy in this area over the coming months and years. I believe that we have taken a particularly bad path in terms of energy poverty. The CREG has pointed this out to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u94	Mr President, I would like to make a statement from the Chair, because I think it is an important debate. In fact, I find it somewhat regrettable that reference was made to the written report. We should have had an oral report to reflect the discussion we had in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the content of the CREG budget, we need to consider the role of Parliament when it comes to the energy regulator. In fact, the electricity and gas laws have established, on the basis of European legislation, that Parliament is exercising control over the CREG. The energy regulator is independent in our country, independent of the administration and independent of the executive. There is, of course, judicial control of the decisions of the CREG through the Marktenhof. There is also political control of the CREG, which happens here, in Parliament. The 150 members of the plenary and the members of the committee shall monitor the budget of the CREG and the policies pursued by the institution. They therefore point to what the CREG is doing. Mr Verduckt rightly referred to the CREG communication on energy poverty. The CREG visited several times to explain the work of the CRM. Furthermore, the CREG also determines the level of the nuclear repartition contribution. The CREG therefore carries out a lot of things, but in the end we have the power to give direction to what the CREG should be dealing with. If we believe that energy poverty is a top priority, then we can give it to the CREG. In our committee there was a very large consensus to consider how we can work more proactively with the CREG. We do not have to confine ourselves to a mandatory round in committee, soon before the end of the calendar year. One afternoon, we will have to go through a whole policy paper so that we can quickly finish it here in plenary before the end of the year with a reference to the written report. We agreed to examine whether we could not divide that work better, so that we could exercise our task of monitoring more fundamentally. That's something that's been bothering me for a long time. It will probably be a process of trial and error, because of course we cannot do micromanagement. Our work must not be a dime of what the CREG does. We will therefore have to find a procedure that is workable both for the CREG and for us. In any case, we must work more proactively and less reactively. We have to be aware of this. This has been mainly the result of the discussion that the operation of the CREG is also financed through the energy bill of the people. So what we expect from others, we also have to expect from the CREG. We must therefore also expect the CREG to deal efficiently with its people and resources. We must also include this institution in an exercise to deal with resources as efficiently as possible. This is a limited increase, which will only be felt on the invoice, but it is certainly not a free move to increase the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my conviction that we must also expect the CREG to exercise its full powers. We also had that debate in committee. Each group had questions and comments on the CREG scan, the instrument developed by the CREG to enable consumers to check whether their energy contract is the cheapest in the market. After all, everyone feels that the CREG has also confirmed that there are over 100,000 dormant products on the market. Tens of thousands of families have not changed contracts in recent years. We must continue to ask the CREG to deal proactively with this. Our regulator must not confine itself to the development of such instruments; he must also link objectives and initiatives to them, and Parliament must remain behind in order to take the necessary initiatives. When it comes to energy policy in our country, I think that the regulator for Parliament can always be the best partner. The regulator is by definition independent and cooperates with other regulators and institutions such as the Competition Authority. It is our strongest counter-force in the liberalised market. I am in favour of the liberalised market, ladies and gentlemen. I am convinced that liberalisation has brought us many good things, including a reduction in electricity prices. A free market or liberalised market does not mean deregulation. A free market must still be able to be regulated in the right and most efficient way. It is about a technical market, in which Parliament will never have a full understanding of its operation. The regulator is therefore the best partner for the Ecolo-Green Group to make these matters clear, so that we can take a number of initiatives here in full knowledge of the facts. I am thinking, for example, of the confirmation of the RB last week on the nuclear repartition contribution. It is ultimately up to the CREG to check how these amounts are made on the basis of a very complex formula in the law. We don't have the knowledge and background to make those calculations, the CREG do. The CREG should therefore be able to make suggestions as a partner on how we can better shape the finality of the legislation, in particular better regulation. Parliament, together with the chairman of the committee, Mr Van Quickenborne and you, Mr Dewael, as chairman, has been sufficiently well equipped to take up this task in a clear way and, without overregulating, to give direction to what we consider important. This has to be handled in a productive way. In this way, we will be able to start very fruitful cooperation in the next legislature, which can only lead to a better and more efficient functioning in the energy market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, political control of the CREG is indeed carried out by Parliament. Parliament must not only give direction to the CREG, but the CREG also gives us input and dusts the policy. It also keeps the MEPs concerned awake permanently. These are matters such as energy poverty, as has been shown today. The financing of the CREG is contained in the federal levy in the electricity bill. We must then constantly ask ourselves whether the CREG is doing a good job. According to the Flemish Interest Group, the answer is yes. Like the other committee members, the Flemish Interest Group is also asking for more structural cooperation with the regulator. In its 2020 budget, the CREG does not record a spectacularly higher amount than in previous years. One of the reasons is the not insignificant amount for external studies. In this context, let us not forget that the CREG is given additional tasks with the introduction of the CRM. The budget of the CREG is, of course, contained in the federal levy. In any case, the reality is that, as is currently provided for in the European Clean Energy Package, the regulator is entrusted with more tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many interesting things in the scope of the CREG. Reference has already been made to the CREG scan. As far as the dormant contracts are concerned, the CREG recommends that the so-called consumer agreement be amended, because new players have joined, but also because the tacit contract extension is still possible. This often leads to the continuation of the most expensive contracts. According to the CREG, only contract extensions based on active products should be offered by suppliers. Let us not forget, too, that I recently had a brief exchange of views in committee with our committee chairman, Mr Van Quickenborne, on the fact that the high final electricity bill in our country is substantially facilitated by the distribution network tariffs. That's a regional matter. The price of the energy component has only slightly increased since the liberalisation of the market. That is an interesting fact for those who here and in committee like to say that it is too easy to make a profit through the deprecated nuclear power stations and that he or she can do it in that way. I can only say to those colleagues that our guideline is the final invoice for the consumer. If we managed to guarantee security of supply, sustainability and affordability at the same time at 100% of renewable energy production, we would be living in another world, ladies and gentlemen, but the other world is not here today, regardless of whether or not nuclear power stations are written off. As regards the electricity bill as a hidden tax bill, via the all-inprice, we are, of course, prepared for years to consider, among other things, the withdrawal of the federal contribution to the invoice and thus a different way of financing a number of cases. Moreover, these matters will soon be re-examined here, ladies and gentlemen, when the question of the blocked indexation of the Gas and Electricity Funds will be raised by means of a ratification law. I shall return to the CREG budget, Mr President. Yeah, the CREG is useful. Today the CREG published the results of a study on energy poverty and the share of electricity and gas bills in the household budget. In addition, on the basis of this study, the CREG makes a number of interesting recommendations, such as giving more support to the households most affected by this situation, we can talk about it in the next few weeks, but also the development of indicators of energy poverty by the federal government. I am also thinking of the role of the CREG in the establishment of transmission network tariffs. These will fall slightly next year for the consumer, thanks to the CREG, which refused an initial tariff proposal from Elia. And who doesn't remember the role of the CREG in achieving the discount on the federal electricity contribution last year and this year? The federal contribution has been calculated over the past few years by the grid operators on larger volumes of electricity than what was effectively decreased by them on the transmission network. They got more money than they paid Elijah themselves. Following the legal amendment, the CREG approved the balances per network operator and they are refunded to the final customer. You have already understood, we will approve this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not really mind referring to the written report. You can all say exactly what you have to say, and you have done so in committee. I think that the oral presentation of something written on paper is a little superfluous. We should go straight to the bottom of the debate. There will be a small applause from Bilzen and Kapellen, for which thanks. Let us then talk about the CREG. It is absolutely important that we have a strong regulator. Liberalisation requires an arbitrator, someone on the ground who ensures that everyone follows the rules. This means that this regulator must have teeth and have the courage to use them. That is the way it is when it comes to liberalisation. I am glad that they do so in many cases. The CREG ensures that we have a useful debate in many areas. The CREG is a useful counterweight to shape our decisions. It is true that for the first time in many years the CREG is asking for a little more money. That is limited and should also be limited. The CREG must continue to work efficiently. However, the added value of the CREG lies largely in the fact that the CREG gives us those advices that will save our citizens and businesses additional costs. Think about what the CREG is doing today in the framework of the CRM system. The advice she gives is very different in nature and gives a very different assessment than a number of other players in the market. Think of her calculations, which made it very clear that the entire capacity mechanism could cost EUR 14 billion over the next 15 years. These are matters that we need in order to be able to make sound decisions and which, moreover, form the basis of a number of amendments which were subsequently adopted by this Parliament and which seriously reduce these costs. I also think that the slope to consult more with the CREG is a useful slope. We absolutely must do so, because in recent years it may have been a little too much the obligatory round 'we must vote on the budget of the CREG and therefore go through the presentation of the policy paper'. We must play the ball much shorter, because we all know that it was very simple in the past. If questions were asked to the Minister about the powers of the CREG, there were two possibilities. Either the minister had a nice, interesting answer and she would say what she would do, or the minister didn't have a nice or interesting answer and she would say it was a competence of the CREG. In my opinion, Parliament does not need the Minister as an intermediary in such matters. We must be able to do so ourselves; we must weigh in on that debate ourselves. The fact alone that the hearing with the CREG on a policy paper raised a lot of questions about last year shows that there is a clear need for this, that Parliament wants to be fed and that we can work with it ourselves in the area of legislative work. I think that this is the path we should follow in the future and we should do more. I will not go into all the opinions of the CREG last year. There were a lot of useful things between them, but I think we are all big and big enough to read those opinions and pick up on them ourselves legislative proposals or questions to go further. In this respect, I expect a great deal from this closer cooperation with the CREG. I am glad that she is open to it and I am glad that everyone who has spoken here is behind it. That was even in the written report. In this way, we can deal with the energy market more maturely and MEPs can take more responsibility. My group will therefore support this budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u97	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The vote on the budget will take place at a later date. The vote on the budget will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u98	In accordance with Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the elections of the House of Representatives and on the financing and open accounting of political parties, the Chamber appoints four experts (2 F + 2 N) who will sit with the right to vote on the Monitoring Committee. In accordance with Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties, the Chamber appoints four experts (2 N + 2 F) to sit on the Audit Committee with the right to vote. Nominations were announced in plenary on 26 September 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 26 September 2019. By letter dated 12 November 2019, Mr Emmanuel Vandenbossche withdrew his application. By letter dated 12 November 2019, Mr Emmanuel Vandenbossche withdrew his candidacy. The Committee on the Constitution and Institutional Renewal heard the candidates on 12 and 26 November 2019. Ms Özlem Özen, Chair of the Committee, reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 27 November 2019. The Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Committee heard the candidates on 12 and 26 November 2019. Ms Özlem Özen, Chairman of the Committee, reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019. There is no need to vote for the two terms of office of French-speaking expert. Indeed, there are only two candidates for these two terms. I therefore declare Messrs. Raymond Molle and Philippe Quertainmont, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the House's Rules of Procedure, as experts of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties. We do not need to vote for the two mandates of the French-speaking expert as there are only two candidates for the two mandates. Consequently, Mr Raymond Molle and Mr Philippe Quertainmont, pursuant to Rule 157, 6, of the Rules of Procedure, appointed experts of the Audit Board on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. However, we must appoint the two Dutch-speaking experts. We do have to vote to appoint the two Dutch-speaking experts. The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (811/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (811/1) The next item is the elections for the appointment of the second alternates of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee on Police Services. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the second alternates of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee on Police Control. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. By letter dated 1 November 2019, Rudy Verbeeck withdrew his application. By letter of 1 November 2019, Mr Rudy Verbeeck withdraws his candidacy. On 18 November 2019, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held the hearing of the candidates. Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 27 November 2019. On 18 November 2019 the candidates were heard by the Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (810/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (810/1) We begin with the ballots for the two Dutch-speaking experts of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties and the term of second deputy to Mr Herman Daens. Following the announcement of the results of these elections, we shall proceed to the vote for the second deputy term of Mr. Jack Vissers. We shall begin with the vote for the two Dutch experts of the Audit Board on the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties and the mandate of second deputy to Mr Herman Daens. Following the publication of these results, we shall proceed to the vote on the mandate of Mr Jack Vissers' second alternate. Ballot papers for the Dutch-speaking expert terms and Mr Herman Daens' second deputy term were distributed. The ballot papers for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking expert and the mandate of the second alternate of Mr Herman Daens have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I would remind you that only ballots that mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid. I would point out that only ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names. The roll call shall be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u99	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u100	The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u101	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u102	Voters 126 Stemmen White or invalid 4 Blank or invalid Valid 122 Geldig Absolute majority 62 Perfect majority M. Marc De Clercq a obtenu 30 voix. Mr Marc De Clercq received 30 votes. M. Herman Matthijs a obtenu 92 voix. Mr Herman Matthijs received 92 votes. Mr. Gunther Vanden Eynde obtained 115 votes. Mr Gunther Vanden Eynde received 115 votes. (1) Mr. Gunther Vanden Eynde, who obtained 115 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking expert of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and Political Party Accounting. Since Mr Gunther Vanden Eynde has received 115 votes, which is the absolute majority, he is declared an expert in the Dutch language of the Audit Committee on electoral expenditure and the accounting of political parties. (2) Mr Herman Matthijs, who obtained 92 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was declared a Dutch-speaking expert of the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and Accounting of Political Parties. Since Mr Herman Matthijs received 92 votes, which is the absolute majority, he was appointed Dutch-speaking expert of the Audit Committee on electoral expenditure and the accounting of political parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u103	Voters 133 Stemmen White or invalid 21 Blank or invalid Valid 112 Geldig Absolute majority 57 Perfect majority Mr. Wouter Benoit obtained 0 votes. Mr Wouter Benoit received 0 votes. Ms Ariane Braccio obtained 3 votes. Mrs Ariane Braccio received 3 votes. Mr. Steven Limburg obtained 109 votes. Mr Steven Limbourg received 109 votes. Mr. Steven Limburg, having obtained an absolute majority, was appointed second deputy of Mr. Herman Daens, a member of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Mr Steven Limbourg, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed second deputy to Mr Herman Daens, member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u104	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Jack Vissers' second deputy term. We shall now proceed to the vote on the mandate of Mr Jack Vissers' second alternate. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u105	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u106	Government requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of filing the following bills: The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following drafts: 1. Draft law Budget year 2020, No 793/1. 1. Draft Finance Act for the financial year 2020, No. 793/1. 2. Draft law amending the measures taken to transpose the ATAD Directives, No. 828/1. 2. Draft law amending the implementing provisions of the ATAD Directives, No. 828/1. 3. Bill confirming royal decrees made under the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, No. 832/1. 3. Draft law ratifying the Royal Decrees adopted pursuant to the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, No. 832/1. 4. Bill establishing the military contingent for the year 2020, No. 844/1. 4. Draft law establishing the military quota for the year 2020, No. 844/1. I propose that we take a decision on these requests. I would suggest that we give an opinion on these questions. Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the floor on the request for urgent procedure for draft law No. 828?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u107	Mr President, we have had the debate at the Conference of Presidents. There was no agreement to amend the draft implementing provisions of the ATAD Directives. The minister was on the committee yesterday. There was no agreement on the arrangement there either. I would therefore ask for a vote to be taken on whether or not it can be arranged. Colleagues, if you approve of this, this means that a very large gift is being given here to the multinationals. Given today's budgetary situation, I think that everyone should reflect on their voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u108	So this is about the second draft law, Mrs Kitir. Mr Laaouej shared that view. Are there any other opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u109	Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity to explain why we are calling for this to be done at a time of urgency. This is a draft law which was part of a broader bill on various tax provisions, which was on the agenda of the Finance Committee on Tuesday. We have deleted the latter draft law. We have justified this by saying that essential changes have been made. To prove that this was a purely technical manoeuvre, a note was written. The contested provisions were placed in a separate bill. I would like to share with you the reasons why we are convinced that it is essential that this bill can still be discussed in the House's committee. The draft law ensures that the provisions of the ATAD Directive, which we transposed in the company tax reform, are better aligned with the ATAD Directive itself. It is really only about the correct transposition of the directive that is due to be transposed by 31 December 2019. The draft law therefore ensures that our country complies with its international obligations and nothing more than that. This bill must be transposed by the end of 2019 because it is retroactive in nature. The limitation on the deduction of interest is already applicable for the 2020 tax year, therefore on what happened this year. Given the prohibition of retroactivity in taxation, it is necessary that the bill be voted and passed again this year. If the bill could not be dealt with, legal chaos would be complete, given that in 2020, it is not possible to make adjustments to the IRC with respect to 2019 revenues. This law contains only technical amendments. They came because the original transposition of the ATAD Directive chose to introduce a consolidation in the interest deduction limitation, as provided for in the Directive. Because Belgium has no real consolidation, a pseudoconsolidation was introduced for the interest deduction restriction to simulate the effect of a real consolidation. The limited timetable for the reform of corporate taxation established the principle of pseudoconsolidation, but established that its practical effects would be carried out by the King. Now the Council of State has ruled in its elaboration that the legislator should have incorporated parts of the practical effects into the law at the time and cannot therefore do so by royal decree. The draft law therefore contains only the technical elaboration of principles already laid down in the reform of corporate taxation. The above has no budgetary impact as this possibility was already provided for in the law of 25 December 2017 and the practical development envisaged therein. The Administration concluded that the possible budgetary consequences will not call into question the neutral budgetary nature of the ISOC reform. Preventing this also means that the law as provided for will not be applicable in practice. Even more so, we risk mistransposition of the directive, which would prevent real consolidation. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that this is not an extension, not a relaxation, but only a technical way of ensuring that the pseudo-consolidation set out in the Law of 25 December 2017 is properly implemented in practice. The refusal of proper consolidation is, in fact, a refusal of the basic principles and logic of taxation itself, which would lead to inadequate transposition of the directive. I believe that this would be a bad thing to have that happen in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u110	You heard Minister De Croo. Mrs Kitir disagreed and Mr Laaouej followed Mrs Kitir's opinion. Are there any other voices in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u111	Mr President, I am surprised. I thought that an agreement had been made at the Conference of Presidents that there would be another debate in committee. I hear the minister today saying he's going full-bodied. Well, we won't let him go through with it. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u112	Mr President, I think it is an important discussion on the substance. According to the government in current cases, there is no budgetary impact, but it is not an insignificant change. The size of the impact can be discussed, but outsiders and consultants say that the design will have a major impact on the calculation of the deduction for the multinationals. There is a big difference between a small technical adjustment or a large impact on the calculation. The calculations of externals go up to 150 million. A while ago, we had a whole debate on a smaller amount of care. I think it is important that this is said here. The government may say it's a small adjustment, but it's not. That the amount is already foreseen in an earlier legislative amendment and a calculation, no one has ever seen a trace of that. I want this to be clear to Parliament, because it is a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u113	I understand that the text must be dealt with before 31 December. It's factual. On the other hand, the government's responsibility is full and complete in this regard. He could have presented it earlier, in good time. In this regard, this is not good governance. That being said, Parliament is now in a special situation. Indeed, the government has been a minority for almost a year. Nor would it be good governance on the part of Parliament to prevent a text from being sent to committee. It is also our responsibility not to prevent a discussion that could take place in committee. There will be a discussion in committee. If issues are problematic, that is where we will have to debate them, Mr President, and not here. This text is extremely complex. Even if it is the government's full responsibility to do so so late, we will, however, support the commissioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u114	Mr President, I would like to repeat what Mr Hedebouw said. In fact, the Conference of Presidents made the point that the Minister would enter into consultation with the Finance Committee in order to justify the urgency. There have also been attempts to do so in the Committee on Finance, which, however, has encountered some legal obstacles for some Members of Parliament. However, Minister Clarinval gave that motivation and she was also sent to us by e-mail afterwards. So we have heard that motivation and it is good to hear today that it is confirmed and detained by the Minister of Finance. So that meeting was definitely there. We would also like to join Mrs Fonck's statement. It is not about the substance of the debate today, it is just about the reference to committee. If there are any comments on the draft, then everyone is free to table amendments and hold the debate there. We can then combine both, as we have the opportunity to meet our international obligations, while at the same time the debate can be held in committee. We can then vote on what needs to be put to the vote. Our attitude is clear, we support the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u115	Mr President, I would like to join a number of previous speakers. The proposed text is no longer the text originally tabled. It was far too broad, and in the meantime it has been limited to the directive to be dealt with before the end of the year. Although the government could have come up with this much earlier and although a certain group, namely ours, was not involved in the previous group consultation, we are aware that it is urgent to deal with it. Constructive as we are, we will therefore support the shipment to committee. This is not about content today, it is about the timely consideration in committee. Let us have the substantive debate there. We support the proposal to conduct the debate in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u116	Mr President, this is the consolidation of the annual accounts. According to Belgian legislation, companies have been obliged for many years to consolidate all their companies under one and the same control. This means that they must regard them as one enterprise. It is normal for companies to be considered as a whole in legislation for proper taxation. This is the subject of the interpretative elaboration of a European directive, which had to be adopted effectively by the end of 2019. So it's logic itself. I understand it's nice to always shoot at the multinationals. Our group is also in favour of fair taxation and a fair distribution between large and small companies, which must be treated in the same way. However, that is another debate. We must be careful not to make it too easy, by always shooting at the multinationals, which provide a great deal of employment here in our country. In this case, there is no record to justify doing so. Either we apply the logic of European legislation or, if we are very consistent, we stop consuming all the products of multinationals, which are all used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u117	Colleagues, it is only about a vote for or against urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u118	Mr President, to clarify, we are not holding the debate here, but we are in favour of the proposal in committee, but not of the urgency. There's a difference. If the urgency isn't there, that means it's on the agenda. There was no unanimity at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u119	Right, but the two go together for a piece. Just so we're clear, this is about the ATAD draft. That's all there is to it. We agree on the urgency of the draft Financial Act, on the bill on gas and electricity, and on the issue of the military quota. We no longer need to debate this. There was a consensus on this at the Conference of Presidents yesterday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u120	Mr President, Mrs Kitir is right and I strongly insist. There must be two votes. The first is to include the item on the agenda and refer it back to committee. The second vote must be on urgency. We need two votes. One doesn't involve the other. I think Mrs. Kitir is right and I wouldn't understand that we're doing anything else.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u121	I disagree. It is a draft law on which the government is calling for urgency. I have nothing else to submit to the Chamber but what the government is asking. Registration on the committee's agenda is, of course, a different matter, but is not under discussion here as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u122	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u123	There was no consensus on this in the Conference...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u124	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u125	(...) because it is reasonably essential. Week after week, we accept fairly easily that the government is in current business, so there can't be much urgency for matters that matter. Things outside of ongoing business are urgent matters. Can we implement the directive? Absolutely. A modification of the transposition is requested. The government argues that it is urgent, because that change is necessary. I will say it very clearly, Mr Leysen, so listen carefully while you are typing: that is nonsense! You can find this in the OECD texts, in which this has already been discussed very widely, because in a few countries the lobby of multinationals has had it changed, without it being necessary. If urgency is requested, it is because the government is proposing in current cases to accept the proposal of the FVO, and nothing else. We have just discussed the shortage of nurses. Research shows that it causes people to die, but something cannot happen quickly, because the government is in ongoing business. An unnecessary thing from the multinationals... unnecessary, I repeat. It is your right to want to do so, but coming here to say that this is urgent and necessary is false and false. The urgency has not been agreed, Mr President. The government is asking for urgency, but the reasoning that the change is necessary and must now is completely untrue. It is simply giving in to the lobby of multinationals, Mr Leysen. I will continue to use their products, but that has little to do with this discussion. It is about the fact that money is too short and that a huge advantage is being given here. Check the websites. Look what PwC writes about it, what the OECD writes about it. They're all wrong about you. You're sitting here chatting around and giving a 150 million-dollar gift to the big companies at the request of the VBO. Something else isn't going on here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u126	The debate on the substance is already taking place, which alone shows that this draft must be subject to serious discussion. I think there are two points on which I would like to see Parliament express its opinion. I thought that in current cases we had the agreement that there should be a consensus in the Conference of Presidents whether or not a draft is within the scope of current cases. There was no such consensus, which is why you announced that you would be able to discuss it in plenary in order to send it to committee. That's the one debate. The other debate comes on top of that, in that sense, I understand the annoyance of a number of colleagues, namely not only to send this draft to committee, but also to deal with it with urgency. That doesn't help very much, as there was already a polemic about the design. That's a government choice. Mr President, you should give the Chamber a chance to express a separate opinion on these two points. Those are two different points. There was no consensus, so we send this to the committee, yes or no? If it is sent to committee, will it be dealt with as a matter of urgency? These are two different points on which Parliament must be able to express its opinion separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u127	I've listened to you very carefully. I shall give the floor to Mr Piedboeuf and Mr De Roover and then make a proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u128	Mr President, there was indeed no consensus in the Conference of Presidents, but it was clear that changes had to be made to the text. The minister made them. They were set out in the Finance Committee where it was explained that, on the basis of the already validated directive, adjustments had to be made to enable it to be properly implemented before 31 December. We are therefore well in the context of the urgency and normal course of what has been validated previously. We will obviously support this procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u129	Mr De Roover, Mr Laaouej, normally each group has the floor once in such a debate. I am already very tolerant of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u130	I'll try not to sell any bullshit. I am looking at the debate very uninhibited. The multinational lobbies have not contacted me yet, nor have they contacted the trade union lobby. So I can take part in the debate freely and openly. There are three things to be dealt with. Firstly, it is extremely important for the N-VA Group whether the draft fits into current cases. That discussion is being held regularly. If a bill does not fit in with a regime of current affairs, then one should work with a bill. We have always used this philosophy so far. If there is agreement in the Conference of Presidents, this should not be discussed further. However, there is no such consensus on this draft. So we have to judge that here. According to the N-VA Group, the draft does indeed fall within current cases, because it is actually a result of policies that were approved in the Chamber during the Michael I administration. Secondly, the question of whether its treatment is urgent must be answered. If the draft cannot be dealt with during a period of current cases, the second question should not even be dealt with. If the design is possible in a period of current cases, there are two possibilities. Either we treat it urgently or we don't. The Minister has put forward good arguments to indicate that the treatment is effectively urgent and that the answer to the second question must also be in the affirmative. All this is separate from the substantive discussion. All of this is unrelated to the views expressed on this issue. We will undoubtedly be able to have an orderly debate on this in committee. The third question is whether one is in favour or against. That is not the case for the moment, a committee meeting must be held first, and then it can be dealt with here at an appropriate time. I would like to say, in the complete intransigence of my own opinion, that our group believes that there should indeed be two votes. The first vote concerns whether or not this is an ongoing matter. The second vote concerns urgency. As far as we are concerned, the answer is yes twice. The rest can be noticed when you attend the committee meeting with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u131	Since yesterday we were unable to reach a consensus in the Conference of Presidents on whether the draft law is in line with current issues, the plenary has to take a decision on this matter. That is the first vote to take place. Then there is a question from the government about urgency. Since it is a vote with an important result, I suggest that we do not sit down and stand up, but that we organise a vote on names. For the record, we are voting on whether the draft law amending the transposition provisions of the ATAD directives falls within the scope of current cases. Those who believe that it falls within the scope of the concept of current cases will vote yes. Anyone who does not agree to this will vote no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u132	138 members took part in the vote, 77 members felt that the draft was part of the concept of current affairs, 61 members disagreed. I propose that we proceed immediately to the second vote. Anyone who asks for urgent procedure for draft law No. 828 supports, votes yes. Others, of course, vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u133	139 members took part in the vote. 77 Members voted in favour of urgency, 62 against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u134	Colleagues, I assume that the other draft laws have been given the urgency, unless someone asks for the vote. I refer to the urgent requests for the draft Financial Act (No. 793), the draft law for the ratification of a number of royal decrees (No. 832) and the draft law establishing the military quota (No. 844). I think everyone agrees to adopt the urgency. Yesterday, too, in the Conference, there was no vote against. No observation? [[No]] Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u135	Voters 137 Stemmen White or invalid 21 Blank or invalid Valid 116 Geldig Absolute majority 59 Perfect majority Mr. Wouter Benoit obtained 102 votes. Mr Wouter Benoit received 102 votes. Ms Ariane Braccio obtained 0 votes. Mrs Ariane Braccio received 0 votes. Mr. Steven Limburg obtained 14 votes. Mr Steven Limbourg received 14 votes. Mr. Wouter Benoit, having obtained an absolute majority, was declared a second alternate to Mr. Jack Vissers, a member of the Standing Committee on Police Services Control. Mr Wouter Benoit, who received the absolute majority, was appointed second deputy to Mr Jack Vissers, member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u136	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u137	Mr President, I call for the urgency of our Bill No. 835, which is intended to include femicide in the Criminal Code. It is a matter of remaining consistent with a choice that was unanimously expressed at the plenary meeting on 7 November. At that time, the CDH text on the anti-approach bracelet was given urgency, while stressing that this emergency should benefit all legal mechanisms that would address the issue of violence against women. I therefore ask for the urgency of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u138	Mrs Rohonyi asks for the urgency of the legislative proposal to include female murder in the Criminal Code, No. 835/1. I propose that we take a stand on this request. I suggest you join us and stand up and say something about this question. Ladies and gentlemen, since the result is unclear, I propose that you keep an electronic count.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u139	A few moments ago, colleagues here spoke of a kindergarten mentality. That is a label you deserve on the late. Will you be careful? We are voting on Mrs Rohonyi's request for urgent procedure for the legislative proposal No. 835/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u140	69 votes in favour, 69 votes against. In the event of a tie, the urgency shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u141	Can I also tell you that after this plenary session we will have a short general meeting of our pension fund? The more attentive we are now, the faster it progresses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (680/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (680/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 138 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 138 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (803/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (803/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u144	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u145	Yes 127 Yes Non 0 No. Abstensions 12 Abstentions Total 139 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the year 2020 of the CREG. This will be made known to CREG. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the year 2020 of the CREG. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-05-55-plenair-ip016x.u146	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting on December 12, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting 12 December 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
