ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u1	We can start the topical debate on close caregivers. If no one sees any inconvenience, we propose to allow Mr. From Vuyst to speak on behalf of Mrs Merckx, who was unable to leave today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, these questions are about the implementation of care services. I do not think I need to remind you of the legislation. In the plenary session of 26 September, I asked for the necessary implementing decisions, which had to be completed by 1 October so that the system could enter into force. At the Ministerial Council of 11 October, two draft royal decrees were approved, as I read. The first concerns the recognition and granting of social rights for carers, the second regulates leave for carers in the public sector. The only question for carers is when they can obtain recognition and when they can take their leave. The need for care must be taken immediately, and there must be no delay; they are now and immediately. Madam Secretary, on what date do the carers receive effective recognition? When can they apply for leave? Is consultations with the Communities and the Regions planned on this subject so that those statutory officials can also take family leave, so that no one in need is excluded? What is the content of these two royal decrees? How is the recognition and granting of these social rights regulated by the draft royal decree adopted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October? Thank you in advance for your answers. I certainly look forward to a positive follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u3	Madam Minister, I naturally agree with the questions put by my colleague. As you will no doubt know, 800 000 Belgians call for care every year. There is therefore a need for care. A lot of people take care of a sick family member. Also acquaintances and mainly elderly people live in uncertainty. These people are currently in an uncertain situation because of the lack of an implementing decision. It is not possible to obtain recognition from the sickness fund as a caregiver on the basis of which you can apply for leave from the employer. Minister Beke has already confirmed the recognition of that thematic leave, but we are waiting for you to transpose those royal decisions as soon as possible so that those people can get out of their insecure situation. Already in 2016, it was promised that there would be recognition for carers very quickly. During Question Time in the plenary session of 26 September, you referred back to the argument that the government was in current cases, but what about the royal decision? Apparently, two drafts have already passed through the Council of Ministers. When do you think the official statute will apply? A study carried out by the independent sickness funds of their 6,100 members of the family has shown that they are experiencing a great deal of psychological problems. Compared to the 100,000 other members, we find that these people should also call on a psychologist three times more. They also suffer more from physical complaints. Those people barely get recognition. For the outside world, it is exactly as if these people have voluntarily chosen not to work, while caring for a sick family member or a neighbor is often a necessity. These people experience a certain psychological stress. They want this status to be recognised as soon as possible. In this way, these people can also effectively make it clear to the outside world that they are caring for a sick family member. When will the Statute enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u4	Mrs. Rohonyi is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u5	Madam President, Madam Minister, following on from my predecessors, I would like to ask the following questions. By when do you expect, at the latest, the opinion of the Council of State on the preliminary draft budget of the ECSC? What are the main lines in the KBs? How does it describe the work of carers? For the time being, the new amended law does not deal with the number of hours of care to be provided as a caregiver to be eligible. There are no hours of tracking or reporting. Is that principle retained in the KBs? Do the KBs provide for additional conditions on top of the conditions laid down in the law? Is this aimed at a minimum level of administration? Will we not, for example, have to apply for recognition every year? The new amended law allows several carers to be recognised per application. What will be the maximum number of recognized carers per question of care? Who can obtain what rights in a situation of several carers? In what way will this be determined? How will this be done? When will the family care statute and leave be granted? This is the question that everyone is waiting for. How did the consultation with the mutualities go? How has it been completed and what is the practical effect? I also understand that not everything needs to be arranged through KB. It is also possible to work through the law on compulsory medical care and benefits, as well as in unemployment. What has already been achieved? What else has to be done? What is the state of play in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u6	Madam Minister, last month we asked in plenary why there was a delay in decision-making with regard to carers. In the meantime, you have issued the necessary royal decree. It was approved on 11 October. This will ensure that carers can effectively submit their application for recognition to the sickness fund. In the meantime, there are also discussions with the health insurance funds. I would also like to ask you about a state of affairs. When can we ensure that people can submit their applications effectively? I hope very soon. That should have been settled on 1 October. With regard to that royal decision, I have two specific questions. In Article 2, we have stated that the person assisted must be a person who is vulnerable because of his age, state of health or disability and who is in a situation of dependency. Under these conditions, parents could therefore also be carers for their child, even if it is not sick or disabled because age is not specified here. A child is also in a vulnerable and dependent situation. Of course, it is not the intention of all parents to provide care for the upbringing of their child, but only when it comes to illness or disability or when it comes to people who depend on their old age. My question is whether this should not be changed to "high age." This includes all cases, i.e. people who are dependent on their old age and therefore need to be able to call on carers, but also others who are not of a high age, but who are ill or disabled or need other care. Article 10 (2) of the Royal Decree states that the recognition of carers must be renewed annually with the sickness fund. However, an annual renewal creates unnecessary administrative burdens for both carers and sickness funds, while the intention of the law was to make the procedure for recognition as a caregiver as simple as possible. We even tabled amendments in April to ensure that recognition is not applied for annually, but that it is simply renewed. Now you come back with a royal decision to what we in this committee have amended by means of amendments. Why was this provision introduced in order to renew it annually, against what we discussed earlier and decided in this committee? I suggest you adjust this back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u7	Before I give the floor to the minister, I would like to clarify the procedure. I have probably interpreted the Rules too broadly about the topical and urgent debate. I would therefore point out that the PVDA-PTB Group will have time to speak during the replies but that it is not possible to take up someone else's question. I take full responsibility for this vileness. It would therefore be legitimate for the Minister not to answer Ms. Merckx's question today, since she should be considered not to be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u8	To explain to me what a caregiver is and what its added value is, while Mr Delizée and I are among the survivors of the original proposal, makes me realize how long I have been here and how old I am. Thank you for that. The Law of 17 May provides for the elaboration of the recognition of carers and, in one month, thematic leave for the entitled persons who are recognized as a caregiver for a severely dependent person. The law is an autonomous initiative of the parliamentary groups in a period of current affairs. A general recognition for the caregiver and recognition for the granting of social rights were introduced. We need to keep these two separate; I'll talk about that later. I would like to stress that everyone can benefit from this recognition, regardless of their social status, provided that they meet the criteria set for close caregivers. For example, self-employed persons can therefore also claim the right to recognition. The social rights linked to the status and the conditions to be respected shall be determined by the competent legislator in relation to the granting of these social rights. This therefore goes beyond my area of competence. This law took an important step forward. The subject is very close to my heart and I have been working on it for more than twenty years. The implementation is, of course, important and reference was made to the Ministers Beke and Muylle, Mr Peeters in advance, and also to me. When the vote was taken in May, everyone knew that the timing of 1 October for the adoption of the royal decrees was very ambitious, given the number of opinions to be requested. When I mention it, you will find that timing is very sharp. First of all, advice should be sought from the Finance and Budget Inspectorate, which requires their time. The opinion of the Data Protection Authority requires three months, which can be extended if there is too much work there. We asked when the opinion would come and it was announced for November. Finally, the Council of State is working on an opinion for 30 days. However, before we can submit the texts to the Council of State, we must have the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. So you can see that it's not all that easy. Meanwhile, on 11 October, the two royal decrees of Minister Muylle and myself were approved by the Council of Ministers. As soon as we have received the opinion of the Data Protection Authority, we can forward the drafts to the Council of State, where a 30-day period of advice applies, even though that period may also be slightly longer. The designs can then be published. The sickness funds immediately indicated that they wanted to consult with a view to implementing these royal decisions, which is normal, as they play a crucial role in this matter. During the consultations, many practical problems were identified, both in legal terms and in terms of the flow of communication. Mrs Willaert asked about that meeting. Well, in June 2019 we set up a coordinating working group with the sickness funds and the family care organisations to implement the legislative initiative. The Social Security Office coordinates the work. In July, the National Intermutualist College (NIC) provided a list of the points of interest, on the basis of which the FOD draws up the draft royal decree. In October, the working group met to further develop the practical implementation. The NIC also took on the commitment to develop the technical impact. In the course of this month we will also receive the results of this work. The impact is, of course, as important as the award. Mrs Lanjri, there is indeed an annual renewal of the recognition of the caregiver when it comes to taking social rights into account. The whole dossier should not be retabled for this purpose. It was agreed that this would be a light application, but it is necessary because it is a grant of rights linked to a task to be carried out. Other governments should be sure that the person still provides care for the person for whom the application has been submitted. It is necessary because of the linking of social benefits to the recognition period. If this is not the case, one could have a right to an advantage for another five or ten years while there are no more reasons for it. It is intended that it can be applied for quickly and easily through the sickness fund. Another focus on the possible recognition of parents as carers for their child has been included and has been adapted in the draft text. This was also adapted in the draft text for old age.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u9	So that's a new very recent version? In the version approved by the Council of Ministers, it is different.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u10	It was adapted after the Council of Ministers. These discussions with the sickness funds and the carers have led to adjustments. Mrs Willaert, you also had a number of questions. Why a maximum of three carers? There is no limit on normal recognition. It is only about the number of carers who can benefit from social rights through recognition. When granting social rights, a maximum of three carers is set, for the sake of the rights linked to recognition. We need to make this recognition attractive to those authorities that want to link rights to a statute. A clearly defined framework is therefore important. The number was determined by taking into account a study by the King Baudouin Foundation, which charts the time spent by carers. It will be necessary to monitor whether this number can be maintained. Why 50 hours a month? There, too, the number of hours of care was determined, taking into account the study of the King Baudouin Foundation in which the time spent by carers was mapped out. In doing so, we wish to strike a balance between the time spent by the resident caregiver and that of the non-resident caregiver. So we refer to the study of the King Baudouin Foundation, Carers of Home Living Parents in Belgium, a crucial and complex role, published in 2016. You also asked the question that not everything should be regulated through KB, but also through effects in the law on compulsory health insurance for medical care and unemployment benefits. This is a new statute which is not covered by health insurance. The sickness funds will be responsible for the recognition, but the disease law should not be amended. The KB is sufficient to implement this. Unemployment insurance is the responsibility of my new colleague, Minister Muylle. For the public sector, she has submitted the KB together with me. The thematic leave for employees was arranged by its predecessor, Minister Beke. When's this for? I told you what advice we should wait for. We cannot turn to the Council of State until we have an opinion from the Data Protection Authority. They were talking about November. If you calculate 30 days for the Council of State and for publication, you can decide about when this is. It is better not to set a date, if not then we could be asked about retroactivity, which is not preferable. The implementing decision will therefore not be long before it is adopted. There are plenty of people here who know how Parliament works. When a draft law is adopted in the Chamber in May, it is impossible to reach its conclusion by October. That deadline may have been chosen knowing we couldn't make it. This led to questions being asked on 26 September. However, a great deal of work has been done. It is important that if this recognition is in place and belongs to the sickness funds, then it will work. At least as much attention should be paid to implementation as to the adoption of the law and the adoption of implementing acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u11	Madam President, Minister, the law was adopted in May, the original intention of the legislator was that it should enter into force immediately. I note that this series of draft KBs came after 26 September, after the debate in the Chamber. However, Madam Minister, family care cannot be postponed. For example, when one has a child with multiple disabilities, one has to quit one's job, not only to take care of the child, but also to put the files and applications in order for tools and other things to be needed. This also weighs heavily on a family, psychologically but also physically and financially. The only thing the people concerned want is for the government to acknowledge their care, for the government to support them. I note that this will certainly not happen before 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u12	I really don't think this is serious. You can say whatever you want, but it didn't happen by accident. The KB didn't fall out of a tree after you asked those questions in the Chamber. The date was unrealistic. Questions were raised in the Chamber on 26 September, but we have been working on them all the time. You should not say that it did not really start until September after you asked a question. It's a good thing you think you're working well. That's true, but we've been working together all along. Even in the vacation periods, those people have come together. I would therefore like to thank the people who have put all that work into it. Pretending it's nothing more than a KB and throwing it into the Belgian Official Journal is not serious. That's not how it works. I invite you to get your first bill approved and ensure its implementation within three months. Do that for a completely new social status. This is not an adaptation or a failure diverse, but a completely new social status, with two types of recognition. Social rights are linked to one of them. That can't be a la minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u13	Madam Minister, as regards the timing that has not been achieved, I believe you when you say that you have been working on it all the time. If you say that the timing was not feasible, then I think it is important that next time we can put realistic timing first. We really need to do that. Let us all look into our own bosom. If a mistake has been made, then we must dare to admit it, but it is particularly bad for the carers. They hoped to be able to apply for recognition on 1 October, but then there appeared to be months of delay. It's true now. We will now simply ensure that the Statute is put in place as soon as possible. That is the most important thing, but future laws require realistic timing. Secondly, I would like to thank you for having made the adjustment to the old age after your consultation with the mutualities. After all, it is not the intention of every parent to become a caregiver when the parent simply does what he or she has to do, namely to take care of his or her child. Of course you can, when it comes to a disabled or seriously ill child. That's another matter. It is therefore a good adjustment. Madam Minister, we expressly stated that for the sake of reducing the administrative burden, no annual application should be made. You replied that this annual application is necessary, but that it will be made in a light version. I really hope that you, along with me, will help ensure that it becomes an extension application in a light version and that it is not a new application with once again certificates of doctors and so on. We hope that it will be purely a report from the person concerned that he or she will continue his or her work as a caregiver. It must be possible to do so with one simple application, without having to ask for further certificates, because otherwise we will find ourselves again where we did not want to end up, in particular that the caregiver once again has administrative burdens every year. After all, you might as well decide to do so without making the annual application and to oblige the caregiver to report when he stops, under penalty of a fine or something like that. If you consider this approach too difficult, you can also make the application happen in a light version. However, make sure that this is a real light version and that care can easily continue with a notification, without too much red tape.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. First of all, I would like to endorse the last point that Mrs Lanjri touched. That's very important. Especially in times when we are moving forward in the area of automatic allocation of rights, the light version is very important. You also propose that the request be made through mutuality. I wonder whether the person will be informed of the need to renew his application or whether it will be in the hands of the caregiver himself. It seems to me very good that the mutualities inform the person concerned of that renewed application. After all, carers have a lot on their mind. It would therefore be very unfortunate if they forgot to make that application. I would therefore ask that the mutualities act there to inform the person that it is time to apply for renewal. It is very important to make this as accessible as possible. With regard to the maximum of three carers, I wonder how that will work. I understand that it is the caretaker who has to make the application and not the person who is being taken care of. He can choose his carers. I wonder if the first person to present will be number one. How exactly is that going to work? In relation to the 50 hours per month or 600 hours per year, I understand that the decision uses the word 'proven' or 'démontrer' in French. So people are expected to actually count the hours. In what way will that have to be registered? How will that be checked? We believe that it is much more realistic and far less difficult for the carers if, for example, it could be done with a declaration of honour. However, there are questions about its practical implementation. It could be light, but it could also be very difficult, hence my three additional questions with your punctual answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u15	Madam Secretary, we understand the process that must be carried out. All opinions should be requested from the Data Protection Authority. After that, the text has yet to be sent to the Council of State. That statute would then, according to my estimate, come in January or February 2020. However, the statute has been promised since 2016 to many people, who are now in uncertainty. There have also been a lot of catchy testimonies in the context of the caregiver's week. I will not repeat it here, in view of time. I also understood that I was not allowed to ask my question at first, Madam President. I take note of the Minister's reply. We hope that the Statute can be established as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u16	Madam President, I would like to answer the questions. Mrs Lanjri, you say that we should not create false expectations on that date. Those people have effectively created false expectations that this would be settled very quickly. You also say that we must set a realistic date. As regards the repetition of applications, it is true that the sickness funds see this as a kind of extension. People will already know on the first statement of honour that it must be repeated. The health insurance fund has a duty to provide information and the aim is to ensure continuity. I have already said that this is necessary because there are rights attached to it. Also ask the sickness funds to make this as simple as possible. Mrs Willaert, as far as the carers are concerned, you say that there will be three. There's the statement to honor, the date she comes in. This is the first three, but I assume it will be done in consultation. That's not a race to win. The person concerned, of course, signs with him. It is certainly always about the person for whom the care is intended and who signs with the first submission. With regard to the counting of hours, it is not the case that a record has to be made from hour to hour or that a diary has to be kept. It simply asks whether a minimum of 50 hours per month is provided for assistance and assistance to the person with a need for care. They also want to know whether at least 600 hours of assistance per year will be provided. If you can answer that in the affirmative, that is enough. It can't be any simpler. This is all taken into account. The relationship with the person in need of care is also mentioned. That is what we mean by the impact that can be achieved in consultation with the family care organizations and the health insurance funds. Mr De Vuyst, work started in 2016 in the implementation of the coalition agreement. At that time, all the parties involved in the government also had to have the same vision. If that is not the case, there must be a time and there must be the necessary concert. The question was whether we would create a statute for everyone and grant everyone the same rights, regardless of whether someone who is seriously in need of care or who is a neighbour who is going to ask the neighbor if nothing should happen and has a chat and a coffee. That's a big difference. We are talking here about family care, the care provided. It has therefore taken time to reach an agreement on this. The fall of the government meant that this had to be discussed again and that it was put on hold again with the Members of Parliament. It was certainly not an easy delivery, but let us hope that the child is beautiful and will be very helpful. However, this was not the best example of easy lawmaking. I agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u17	Madam Secretary, during the previous legislature, you founded the National College of Social Insurance Medicine. At the end of 2018 you communicated that the college would work on different guidelines for doctors, so that they can deal more consciously with prescribing disease attestations. The intention was, firstly, to come up with a number of clear guidelines on the basis of which doctors can estimate their own prescription behaviour and, secondly, to link a certain duration to certain diseases. This had to result in a more coherent approach to the problem. Eight diseases were selected. Based on a study and survey with the doctors, a delphi approach, it would be examined what should be seen as a logical duration for each of these diseases and what deviations are possible up or down. Furthermore, the Department of Medical Evaluation and Control would start an analysis of the disability attestations by the end of 2018. So that's kind of a data mining of the prescription behavior. Has this survey been completed by the doctors in the context of the development of the guidelines? If not, when will it be completed? If so, what are the main conclusions and are the results also announced to Members of Parliament or other fora? Has the analysis of disability certificates been completed in the meantime? If not, when can we expect it? If that analysis has been carried out, what are its main conclusions? Do the guidelines under discussion fix a minimum duration and maximum duration of absence, or can the guidelines also determine what a person with a particular disease is likely to be able to do? What direction do you intend to take with these guidelines? Will the guidelines and data mining be used to impose sanctions on doctors? Is it more about social control, if any, or do you have sanctions in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u18	Mr Spooren, the project of the National College of Social Insurance Medicine has not yet been implemented. The analysis of the certificates of incapacity for work by the DGEC has also not yet been completed. The database containing the data of the certificates of incapacity for work has only been operational since the beginning of 2019 and the analysis depends on indicators that still need to be defined by means of guidelines to be drawn up. Those guidelines per pathology of the eight pathologies selected can only be finalized after the delphi study has been completed, because that study is the basis for it. Once that study has been completed, there is still a consensus to be reached with the Medical Corps. It was never meant to be sanctioned. I have said a thousand times that they are guidelines without any sanctioning intention. However, the guidelines are intended to provide the prescribers with a basis for prescribing incapacity for work. After all, there is a rather sloppy approach to prescribing both medicine and disability. There is too little awareness of the social costs involved. Do you have to check everyone from the first day? I myself experienced how patients who were really sick, very ill even, were controlled from the first day, and perhaps that was about it, but I reassured them that they should not care, because then they knew for sure how sick someone was. It is therefore important for us to have directives and to be able to check in which cases disability is prescribed and how serious thought is being given to this. It is therefore rather a preventive approach vis-à-vis the prescribing doctors. Such a scheme works twice as a preventive measure, by providing doctors with information on the time limits for incapacity to work, information on which they can focus. The system can thus provide the necessary information, with feedback to the doctor, just as is done in connection with their prescription behaviour. The aim of the scheme in this area is also to be sensitizing and responsive to the caregivers. Then people who get many days due to severe surgery or illness will no longer be shaved along the same lines as those who occasionally ask the doctor for a week or 14 days. Unfortunately, that is still the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u19	Madam Minister, I agree with the last part of your answer: the guidelines for doctors can be preventive and sensitising in the first place. I can follow you in that. After a while it can then be considered whether further steps need to be taken. I am a little disappointed that no further progress has been made on the Delphi study and on data mining. That base has to be there first. One thing is to reduce the number of long-term sick, and for that there are a number of initiatives that we will discuss in committee. Another issue is that we need to channel the influx better through a more coherent approach. I have always believed in an approach with guidelines. I believe that the introduction of such a system would be an important step, but I understand that it will not be until tomorrow. You did not say when those results were expected either. Until there are, awareness and prevention cannot be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u20	I understand your impatience about the fact that this study is not yet available. I'm just as impatient. But other measures can also lead to awareness. I would remind you of our decision to amend the certificate for incapacity for work, which must be completed not only on the starting date but also on the end date of the form, including for the health insurance declaration. Well, that has automatically led to this, I think the Independent Hospital Fund has made a study on this that the number of days written went down. Indeed, for three or four years now the end date has to be given, whereas it has not been completed in the past, and we have indeed begun to think about it. Of course, one doctor prescribes easier than the other. Patients once testified to me that they only came to me when they were sick, and if they wanted to stay home, they'd come knocking on a colleague of mine. That is the reality; that is taken out of life. One should think about the responsibility that one has when writing out disease attestations. This also applies to certificates for schools. They are also called benevolence attestations. Things have already happened, but I think we need to take all the measures we can take to raise awareness. Remember the fuss in the wake of reports that we would determine by means of the guidelines how long someone should stay at home. That was ripped off, but the advantage was that it woke people up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u21	Madam President, first of all I would like to say that I tabled this question in July. In mid-July, De Standaard published a report on the study of SD Worx and the Antwerp Management School on the benefits of employees. Afterwards, we decided to hold a number of hearings in committee on this subject. I'm okay with this, but I still had some questions about that study. The study shows that the total sum of extralegal benefits paid is quite significant. On the basis of the extra-legal benefits examined, 2.9 million Belgians would receive additional wages for a total of 6.8 billion euros in the form of extra-legal benefits. You know that, in most cases, social contributions are not paid for these benefits. As a proportion of 25% of social contributions for employers and 13% for employees, this means that the public authorities miss revenue of EUR 2.6 billion. This is also an underestimate because the study does not include 33 extralegal benefits. These include hospitalisation insurance, supplementary pension allowance, company crèches, sports and culture cheques, etc. I therefore have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. What are the main results of this study? What conclusions do you draw yourself from that at the moment? Why did the 33 extra-legal benefits be omitted? Why were they not part of the study of SD Workx and AMS? Did that happen at your request or at the request of the FPS Social Security Office, the RSZ or the researchers themselves? Why, in particular, were the hospitalisation insurance and supplementary pension benefits not included in the investigation, knowing that they are an important cost item? What was the justification for that decision? Do you agree with me that it would be useful to carry out an additional study on the 33 extralegal benefits? It is only if we can identify the whole of the extralegal benefits that we will be able to analyse the situation on the substance and make recommendations on the substance, including with Parliament. Not all of the extra-legal benefits should be simply abolished, but it is possible to see which are useful and possibly contribute and which are not useful or to ensure a pure circumvention of the payment of RSZ contributions. In any case, the study has confirmed that there is a proliferation of extra-legal benefits and that social security is therefore a major loss of income. At least EUR 2.6 billion is involved. In what way do you think we can reform the system which will restore a fair balance between gross wages and the extra-legal benefits, so that we do not undermine the long-term income of social security? We absolutely need this income, including to pay for the costs of ageing and the rising costs of care. The study also showed that women very often enjoy less extralegal benefits than men. This cannot only be explained by the sectors where women are employed to a greater or lesser extent. What measures will you take against this extra-legal pay gap? We already knew there was a pay gap: up until the Equal Pay Day a few weeks ago, women earn as much as men, but from that day on, women are actually working for free, to symbolically express it. If we add that women enjoy much less extra-legal benefits, I do not think that this is a good thing as a female Member of Parliament, and we absolutely must do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u22	Mrs Lanjri, you ask a lot of questions. When I started as Minister of Social Affairs, I asked for an inventory of all existing additional benefits in our country, but no one could give it to me. It just didn't exist. That is why I have asked the FPS Social Security Office to conduct an investigation into this. In 2017, the first study on the inventory of alternative forms of remuneration was carried out. Thanks to this first study, we were given an idea of what exists, but in order to know the spread, I asked for an additional study to be carried out in which the results of the first study were extrapolated to the entire population of employees subject to social security in the private sector. [[It's that study that refers to De Standaard.]] The study is available on the website of the FPS Social Security Office and on the website of the National Social Security Office. Measuring is known, but the results are still a bit rough to link policy choices to. However, we now have a view of the various additional benefits and to what extent they are used in the landscape of wage formation. However, the study does not mention its net impact on the citizen's portfolio. Who gets what benefits? What share are these benefits in its total remuneration? What is the tax treatment of this? There is therefore a need for caution. These benefits are part of the negotiated wage package, and we cannot just intervene in it. You will agree with me on that. You say that 33 benefits were not included in the second study. The methodology of that study was established by the researchers in consultation with the RSZ and the FPS Social Security. So I do not have the honour and the pleasure of intervening. This methodology is based primarily on information available to SD Worx in its wage calculation systems. The choice of the forms of remuneration included in this second study is based only on methodological considerations. Researchers have taken into account only the forms of remuneration which are both individualisable and sufficiently representative. The hospitalisation insurance and supplementary pension benefits were not included in this second study because they were not identifiable in the sample. As I said, the second study has been carried out in addition to the first. If there is no identification in the first sample, one cannot build on it. The point is that these two benefits, i.e. hospitalisation insurance and supplementary pension payments, are regulated by the company. There is no wage code for them on an individual level. The further identification of the allowances not included in this second study seems interesting to me, insofar as they would be sufficiently large in terms of size or distribution, otherwise it would be a loss of effort. It's policy-related. You know that we are now in business and cannot develop a new policy. We must therefore wait for the translation and further elaboration of it. It will then be possible to examine what measures can be taken in the future. After all, you know that it is also about negotiations and wage envelopes. It is therefore not easy to intervene in this matter through Parliament. However, it is certainly useful that the work has been done and that more points have been identified, although this is still incomplete for the reasons given. I therefore invite everyone to read from the published study to get an idea of what we are doing. On the billions of estimates, I'd like to give you the following. I read in another article today the amount of EUR 6 billion. You mentioned EUR 3 billion. So the billions are flying all over us. We will have to wait and see what's going on. Anyway, I'm not gonna take care of those calculations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u23	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I have indeed noticed that the study is available on the website. It is very interesting, especially if we do something about the study and acknowledge that it is only a partial analysis because the creators could not do otherwise because of the methodology used. You yourself indicate that it would be interesting to examine these 33 measures further, to the extent possible. You are a little cautious on that point. I have asked a number of questions about policy measures about your opinion on the matter or what you think you can reform, including for women. You have not yet wanted to answer those questions. You referred to the current cases. In any case, the Committee on Social Affairs is currently working on this whole assessment of social security and also on the extra-legal benefits. I therefore think it is very important that we are already doing preparatory work with a view to a new government. If there is still a need for an additional study, it seems to me now is the time. On the basis of this study, we should have a better view of the whole of the extra-legal benefits and of the direction in which the new government should adjust. If that is necessary, we can ask you or the government from Parliament to order that study on that part that has not yet been examined so that the results could be obtained as soon as possible. Otherwise, we're wasting time. Such a study takes time and the faster it is ordered,...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u24	And money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u25	That's right, but it's important. A study costs money, but one has to see what's on the other side. It's about EUR 2.6 billion. I am not saying that all this can be saved, I am not naive, but we will be able to form an image of the issues that need to be addressed, such as wild growth. This study will therefore be repaid if the new government makes the right decisions to regroup or abolish some of the extra-legal benefits. I will not comment on this at the moment, but I think it is worth examining it further. So I would ask you to take care of that additional study. If you think that is necessary, we can ask you or the government from Parliament to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u26	Mrs Lanjri, I told you that I asked for these studies, but they are based on a database of SD Worx. A number of issues, such as hospitalisation fees and supplementary pension formation, are not included in their database. That database is about the remuneration, so if it's not in there, we can't find it either. I am the first to say that it is interesting to investigate, but then it must be feasible. We will not launch studies on the sex of angels, which we cannot do with. We mean the same thing, but you speak of it more long-windedly. You can go through Parliament, you can ask. I used to work in this way, for example by asking for a study in relation to healthcare through the Knowledge Centre. It took two years to reach the conclusions. If that's what you're asking, you'll find the biggest partner in me. In the database from which you leave, the necessary information must of course be available. This is the subject of the preliminary investigation that is taking place, because it examines what data can possibly be linked and used. Therefore, you will not find any information that is not present in the database. If you leave the buildings here looking for a zebra but there is none, then you will not find it, even though you know very well that you are looking for a striped animal. This also applies to a study: data that are not in the database cannot be found in it. The people involved have worked very hard together, but we cannot impose SD Worx to extract information from a database that is not in it. These are matters that are regulated by the employers and that SD Worx cannot retrace. So we're talking a little bit along each other's throats when we're talking about the same thing. You may want to order a study, but you might want to ask SD Worx first what the possibilities are, as the SD Worx database is working on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u27	Madam Minister, you have now made it as long-winded as I have, if I may use that word, but actually said the same thing. Of course, we are not asking for the impossible. If that data is not recorded today, we will ask for it to be recorded in the future. At the hearing we will find out what data is being recorded or not. In this way, certain conclusions can also be drawn afterwards. If you hadn't asked about that study two years ago, it wouldn't have happened today either. If we, as policy makers, find that certain data are not collected, it is perhaps interesting that we should ask for them to be recorded, so that investigations can take place afterwards and conclusions can be drawn. That is a first step that we can take, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u28	Madam President, you know that there have been difficulties in submitting questions via the Internet system. Some of the questions were submitted or not submitted twice. Same here. In this case I had submitted my question on 18 July, but she did not appear in the system, so I submitted them a second time on 26 September.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u29	We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u30	I know it's being worked on, but there's still a long way to go. Madam Minister, with the Royal Decree amending Article 17c of the Royal Decree of 28 November 1969 implementing the Law of 27 June 1969 and revising the Decree of December 1944 on social security and workers, since 1 January 2019, the RSZ scheme applicable to voluntary ambulances has been aligned with the scheme for fire service and civil protection volunteers. That is a good thing. I've been arguing for that for a long time. I'm glad this has happened now. It's about time this discrimination was eliminated. This parafiscal equivalence was later extended at tax level, thanks to the law of 1 March 2019 amending the Income Tax Code. This Act of 1 March 2019 increased the maximum ceiling of the tax exemption for fire brigade and civil protection volunteers, as well as for voluntary ambulances. However, the maximum ceiling for the RSZ exemption remained unchanged. My questions on this are as follows. Do you agree with me that both ceilings should be aligned? When will you make a royal decision on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u31	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Lanjri. The law of 1 March 2019 referred to in your question not only increased the ceiling for voluntary firefighters and civil protection volunteers in the tax field, but also extended the scope of the exemption to voluntary ambulances providing emergency medical assistance within the meaning of Article 1 of the Law of 8 July 1964 on urgent medical assistance. However, one is a tax system, the other is a parafiscal system. They cannot be compared, because they do not have the same scope. In the case of social security, there is no ceiling for exceptional benefits and urgent medical assistance, but there is a ceiling for taxation. For non-urgent assistance by voluntary ambulances there is a ceiling on social security, but no exemption for the tax authorities. I would therefore like to point out that the law of 1 March concerns tax legislation which, as stated, is not similar to social legislation. From a social point of view, there is therefore a lower ceiling for non-exceptional benefits and non-urgent medical services for fire and civil protection, and for the non-urgent medical services of the ambulance workers, but no ceiling on exceptional benefits and urgent medical assistance. I believe that there should be some convergence between tax and parafiscal regulations for these various matters. Amendments must therefore be made. We're investigating how this can happen, but a government in current affairs can't carry it out on its own. The amendments to the tax ceiling and the extension of the scope were made at Parliament's initiative. It is now being carried out in response to the abnormalities previously reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u32	Madam Secretary, I would like to draw your attention to this inconsistency. It's a good thing you're saying this has to grow together. Since you cannot take an initiative on current issues, I hope that colleagues in Parliament will be able to submit an initiative to this effect, so that this discrimination can be eliminated and the regulations brought more into line with what we have decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u33	Madam President, I have a practical question first. Madam Secretary, can you give me a minute to see how long you're staying today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u34	I can stay until 12:15. I have an interview and my next meeting is scheduled at 12:30. I have to be back here by 2:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u35	This is a somewhat specific question, Madam Minister, but a few victims have contacted me because their recognition is rather difficult. The Organic Psychosocial Syndrome (OPS) is a collective term for various physical and mental complaints that an employee may experience as a result of an impairment of the nervous system. This is usually due to prolonged and frequent exposure to harmful solvents. For example, the disease is common among painters. In the Royal Decree of 26 May 2002 amending the Royal Decree of 28 March 1969 establishing the list of occupational diseases giving rise to compensation, OPS was recognised as an occupational disease. This seems to me to be important for those involved, but the disease does not appear to be so easy to identify, especially in the early stages, because the symptoms are difficult to distinguish from other diseases. However, since I received a number of questions and complaints, I wondered if you could give me some figures on the number of claims for compensation on the basis of OPS submitted to Fedris in 2016 to 2018. How many applications were approved? In this way I can try to assess how difficult the procedure is and whether there are reasons or criteria for the refusal. How do you view the difficult recognition procedure for this occupational disease?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u36	Mrs Van Peel, it is a small phenomenon, but therefore not insignificant. In 2016, 13 applications were submitted to Fedris, 4 of them were recognised as occupational disease and 9 applications were refused. In 2017, there were 10 of which none were recognised at the time. In 2018, 7 applications were submitted, 5 of which were already rejected and 2 are still pending. A total of 28 applications were submitted since 2016, of which 4 were accepted and 24 were refused. In 9 dossiers, engineers' studies revealed non-exposure to occupational risk, 14 dossiers showed that the medical report could not demonstrate organic psychosyndrome, excluding other causes, and 1 file was refused because the applicant did not show up for medical examination. Those recognition criteria were established by the Fedris Scientific Council. The subject was also dealt with in a general publication on the institution's website. Fedris acknowledges the dossiers submitted for an organic psychosyndrome due to solvents based on, on the one hand, a report from the engineers confirming a sufficiently significant exposure and, on the other hand, a medical report demonstrating the existence of symptoms and functional disorders consistent with organic psychosyndrome by solvents and which cannot be attributed to other causes. The exposure criteria are met if the worker has exercised one of the professions laid down by the Scientific Council and a real exposure of 10 years has been demonstrated. The occurrence of organic psycho syndrome by solvents should be concurrent with exposure. A latency period is not provided for. Exceptionally, some intensive exposures with frequent exposure peaks may cause organic psycho syndrome by solvents within a shorter period of time. Therefore, each exposure is examined individually and in any case. The medical criteria are met if the typical symptoms of organic psychosyndrome are reported by solvents in the history, if functional cognitive disorders are objectiveised by a neuropsychological test and if other causes are excluded. These criteria were established on a valid scientific basis, but they are more than five years old and therefore need to be re-examined by the Scientific Council, based on an analysis of the recent scientific literature. The practical modalities of this analysis are currently being discussed. Following the analysis, a new opinion will be given. Since there is already a little more knowledge, it is possible that the criteria will be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u37	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is a good thing that the criteria are reviewed. It is, of course, about very few cases, which makes it more difficult to detect certain things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u38	Madam President, Minister, there is much evidence from firefighters that the risk of developing cancer in the performance of their duties is particularly important. Studies show that fire smoke causes cancer in firefighters. They also show that the men of fire would live – it's amazing – on average ten years less than the others! In view of this, all preventive measures to better protect our firefighters in the field must be taken. It is in this context that the latter, in my view, rightly, have for many years been calling for recognition of cancer as an occupational disease. Unfortunately, this is still not the case in Belgium, while health authorities in other countries, such as Canada, have already legislated in this direction. Minister, are there any opportunities for initiatives to recognize cancer as an occupational disease in our firefighters? What means of health insurance exist in Belgium to cover firefighters in case of cancer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u39	Madam President, Mr Thiébaut, thank you for your question. I would like to point out that, like you, I am attentive to literature on the subject. I have also been in contact for some time with my colleagues, the Ministers for Security and the Interior and for Employment. In fact, we all work together in the field of our skills, focusing on prevention. In this context, the collection and sharing of information is paramount. A working group has been set up within the public employer, the Inland FPS, to look at possible improvements in fire prevention for firefighters. It was suggested to share the actions undertaken with the Federal Occupational Risk Agency (Fedris). For my part, I have instructed the Scientific Council of Fedris to examine the question of occupational cancers of firefighters with a view to the possible recognition of a specific risk of occupational disease for this occupational category, as appropriate, but also the implementation of possible preventive measures and/or extended health surveillance measures. There is no blocking in the recognition of cancer as an occupational disease for firefighters. There are several elements to support this statement. First of all, I would like to point out that it is of course always possible to apply for recognition for an occupational disease which is not on the list. In the open system, it is obviously required that the disease be, in a decisive and direct way, the consequence of the exercise of the profession. I also asked Fedris to provide me with statistics on the number of applications for recognition of occupational diseases submitted by cancer firefighters. It turns out that this number is very limited. But as I told Mrs Van Peel, it is not because the number is reduced that it is not important. There are four applications from 2016 to 2018. On this basis, it seems impossible to establish a high prevalence of cancers among firefighters in Belgium. This probably indicates under-detection of occupational cancers that the administration also suspects in all occupations. For this reason, the administration is considering communication and awareness-raising measures to address them. As regards the means of health insurance, a firefighter, like any other sick person who suspects that his or her illness is related to the exercise of his or her profession, may apply for recognition as an occupational disease in this open system. If the claim is not recognised under occupational risk insurance, sickness and disability insurance is also involved. For the future, various actions can be undertaken, whether in the area of prevention, long-term health surveillance or recognition of occupational disease, but the results of the review of the situation by the Scientific Council must be awaited. These results will, of course, be submitted to the social partners in the Fedris Occupational Disease Management Committee. I hope I have reassured you that the situation of the firefighters is of equal concern to me and that I have undertaken all possible actions within the framework of my competence to study the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u40	Minister, thank you for the very comprehensiveness of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u41	Madam Minister, from 1972 until its Belgian closure in 2007, the company CEGRAM, located in Engis, near Liège, made graphite electrodes for the steel industry. In the most successful years, the company employed nearly 300 workers. These were exposed daily to dust and smoke from sulphur, graphite, CO and asbestos. Despite the harmfulness and toxicity of these substances, they worked unprotected. According to a 1992 expert report on toxicology, they were exposed to these mutagenic and carcinogenic substances at levels that are 1000 to 10,000 times higher than normal. Of the former workers in the company, 120 died of lung, bladder, blood or cardiovascular cancer. Among the survivors, some are now suffering from graphitosis, which is a lung disease affecting people who have inhaled graphite dust for a long period of time. Headache, cough, depressive state, anorexia, dyspnoea or even blackish expectorations are symptoms caused by this pneumonitis. Graphitosis was once recognized as an occupational disease in our country. This implied that recognized cases were entitled to compensation. In France, this pneumonitis is still included in the list of occupational diseases. Before I ask my question, I want to clarify something. When someone suffers from pulmonary emphysema, it is not automatically inferred that emphysema can be caused by regular exposure throughout a career. Minister, why is graphitosis no longer recognized as an occupational disease in our country today? To alleviate some - at least financially - the workers thus diagnosed, do you consider including graphitosis again in occupational diseases? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u42	Mr Goblet, thank you for your question. Graphitosis is an occupational disease recognized as such since the Royal Decree of 26 November 1982, which included it in the list of occupational diseases under code 2.301.01. For the time being, there is no scientific justification for withdrawing it. To date and since 1982, 26 cases have been submitted to Fedris (the former Occupational Diseases Fund). Of these, 25 had to be refused because either exposure to occupational risks could not be demonstrated or the impairment of graphitosis could not be demonstrated medically. For the record, the legislation on the prevention of and compensation for occupational diseases requires that the social insured person prove that he or she is suffering from the disease. Exposure must also be significantly greater than that of the general population and that exposure is likely to cause graphitosis, according to generally accepted medical knowledge. Since graphitosis is not removed from the list of occupational diseases, the insured persons may apply to Fedris for compensation, using the ad hoc forms and annexing the medical evidence of their illness. These forms can be downloaded from the Fedris website and can also be obtained on request from the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you. I would like to point out that, on the one hand, I knew this company particularly because at the time I was dealing with its cleaning staff. In order to show you the extent to which this company was confronted with toxic elements, the cleaning company had, at its own expense, modified all the tiles in the refectories, washbasins and corridors to have more facilities to clean with the machines and to be more productive. This demonstrates that this company was highly exposed to risks to workers. If I ask you the question, it is because a worker who has been fighting for several years to have his occupational disease recognized does not succeed. Indeed, it is considered that the pulmonary emphysema from which he suffers is not necessarily the result of his exposure. It should also be noted that, in this company, which has been shut down since 2007, there is no longer any documentation to verify the exposure situation of workers. Madam Minister, would you agree, on the basis of a document that I will forward to you, to examine the particular situation of this worker who has been fighting for years to obtain this recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u44	Dear colleague, I'm going to ask Fedris the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u45	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u46	Madam Chair, Minister, my question was tabled a while ago. We haven't had all our debates yet. I shall therefore not repeat the analysis of this sector, which is now in the midst of a crisis. You know that the House has allocated a budget of $67 million for the months of November and December, and that a working group has been set up. My question will be very simple. You said you were ready to cooperate with Parliament. I would like to know in concrete terms how you intend to work with him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u47	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Thémont. A series of measures were taken during this legislature to improve the retention of nurses in the health care sector. The title "advanced practice nurse" has been introduced into the law. It will help translate scientific innovation into clinical practice. It is also known that this new career perspective will have a propensity to increase attractiveness and retention for young students. The possibility of extending the authorised acts to health-care workers who have completed further training, so as to enable nurses to delegate more acts to them, has been offering significant assistance since 1 September 2019 and thus represents a reduction in the workload for nurses. The salary scales of care providers have been harmonised through the IFIC classification system developed by the social partners with the aim of developing an updated and more objective wage policy. The Government has set aside a budget for this purpose. The full deployment of the IFIC system is expected to be phased in over the coming years. The new wage model came into effect in the private sector in 2018 and is not unfavourable to any nurse. In general, it improves pay prospects. For the time being, the IFIC system has only been deployed in the private sector, but we needed a study on the public sector. The system should be extended to the public sector. I have asked the social partners working together within the IFIC LSA to pay attention to the comments made by nurses in order to consider an improvement in the model in the years to come. When the firm receives comments or complaints, it always contacts the IFIC LSA to ask what adjustments have been made. As for the field of specialization of future nurses, I believe that hyperspecialization, as we already know it, does not correspond to the needs of our health care system and to the evolution of the pathologies encountered. Already in 2018, I asked for the opinion of the Federal Council of Nursing Art on this. As regards the areas of specialization of the specialist nurse, no decision has yet been taken and the reflection is still under way within my firm in consultation with the actors in the field. As a result of these changes, attractiveness premiums based on qualifications and qualifications remain acquired for those who benefit from them but will no longer be granted to new entrants entering the IFIC system. With regard to the potential for a shortage of nurses in the future, attention remains to be paid to the evolution of the nursing workforce since the monitoring of the profession was ensured by an update of the data in 2019 and that in 2020, the Planning Commission will examine in detail the planning of the nursing workforce through the completion of a detailed study of the labour force assessment scenarios. As far as standards are concerned, more and more voices in the field are rising to denounce the standards of nurses in care institutions that are becoming problematic. Working conditions are highly dependent on the number of nurses and caregivers with patients. Until 2014, the federal government set certain standards and funded them. However, since the sixth reform in 2014, staff standards have become a regional competence. For standards in nursing and nursing homes, the Regions are fully autonomous and can modify the standards as they see fit. The same is true for hospital standards. Because there is a budgetary impact on health insurance, the Regions must first request it from the federal government in order to reach an agreement. To my knowledge, since 2014, no personnel standards have been changed in any of the Regions and no Region has come to argue at the federal level for a change in hospital standards. We have no questions on this subject. This may be one of the explanations of the current situation on the ground. In the coming legislature, no government will be able to ignore the fact that it is essential to continue to take action on nursing standards in care institutions. As far as the representation of nurses in hospital networks is concerned, it is true that I did not impose it in the royal decree establishing the obligation to create networks, but I am confident that they will have the wisdom to provide for adequate consultation. Social dialogue has a role to play here too. The Regions also remain free to set more stringent criteria for networks. If I can identify priorities for the coming years, the challenge will be to determine the workload. Work in hospital networks and the correct use of the competence of health care professionals in hospitals and at home can help reduce this workload. The complexity of care requires competent nurses. Let us treat them with respect by offering them sufficient challenges and in line with their qualifications in their daily work. The government is in day-to-day business and the cases are continuing. Staff organisations are coordinated through the advisory bodies to move forward on ongoing issues. We continue to pay attention to the nursing sector. My administration will shortly be organising, in partnership with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium, a day of symposium on the law on the quality of practices for nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u48	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have the impression that you have not listened to me much because I had changed my question in view of the recent events and the installation of the working group. My question was how you will work with Parliament. In particular, there will still be hearings this afternoon. I have the impression that you stayed on my first question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u49	I heard you. We must first listen to the speakers during the hearings and then react. You will hear the demands, which are numerous, and you will find that the actors on the ground do not always agree with each other. In the field too, they have to agree. We can make things a little easier, but it's not practical. There are some who say that nurses have too many tasks to do, I agree with that... Tasks can be entrusted to the caregivers or to others, but then one says that one does not want to let another do so. At home, it's exactly the same. Do you need to be a professional nurse to wash people? This does not require specific knowledge. One can do the two, but that washing happens every day. There are tasks that can be filled out differently. With a highly aging population, it is necessary to organize differently than two decades ago. We have to organize ourselves differently in home care. We must organize ourselves differently also in nursing homes and hospitals. If not, we will not be able to ensure the attractiveness of the profession and we will no longer have enough nurses. We can already see that there are more nurses taking their pensions than nurses in training. This situation with an aging population will create a lot of pressure for active nurses. Some have health problems or burn-out. Replacements are being made. But sometimes we can't find replacements. There are vacant posts in all nursing homes, all hospitals. We're looking for nurses, but there's none, which is a real problem too. We should be able to train enough nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u50	Minister, as you said, there is a lack of attractiveness in the trade. Today, therefore, we are tending towards a shortage. You say we have to find solutions. But what can we do to get people to take this training? It is simply necessary to provide for adequate working conditions. You say that to make a person's toilet, you don't have to have a special training. As far as I'm concerned, I think the opposite is true.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u51	Mrs Thémont, I have said that there is no need to send highly qualified nurses every day. Of course, a nurse has to go. You can do that twice a week. For example, it happens in diabetics, where nurses don't visit every day. For the ordinary care, someone else goes, while only for the real nurse care and activities a nurse comes. In the current procedure, the nurse also washes all these people, or the nurse has to wait ten minutes before the door can be opened, for example. The point is that the right man or woman is at the right time with the patient; that is important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u52	Mrs Thémont, the last word for Parliament, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u53	I can hear this thinking but not to the detriment of patients. I had not understood whether they were nurses or caregivers, but I still feel that specific training is needed. When you have to move people with a serious illness – to have lived it personally – you have to be trained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u54	Training has been provided for detachable tasks. Training has, of course, been provided for those who are in the process of training, but also for those who are already caregivers. Be aware that we were offered eight hours of training and 1,250 hours. See? We have to make a choice! Eight hours is a day, and 1,250 hours is a full year, which means that those in training are not in the field!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u55	We'll meet again this afternoon. Minister, if you agree, then we will resume work on oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u56	Questions are scheduled to be discussed next Wednesday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u57	Madam Chair, my question was the next on the list. Will the questions go back to the agenda? I'm really not lucky. It always stops before me. My question will be in the first because this time it was not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic050x.u58	We will start with Mrs Fonck's question No 55000767C, where we have stopped. Your question No 55000769C will therefore appear in point 2.
