ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u1	Mr Minister, the Committee on Public Health is currently working on a motion for a resolution to reduce the cost of glasses and lentils and to improve reimbursements in this area. It is forgotten that problems in the visual or hearing system constitute a real handicap. Indeed, it is obviously impossible to live, work, drive, without these assistances for the visually impaired, blind, myopic, or with all the other problems of visual acuity? In May 2017, during its consideration of this proposal, the Public Health Committee sought the opinion of the Minister of Finance on the budgetary impact of the proposal. Last January, in response to a written question, he did not really admit that this subject was important to him. Of course, "a reduction in the rate of VAT, for any supply of goods or services, is not something to be taken lightly". However, it is a medical device that has everything but a luxury connotation. I'm talking about the glasses and the basic frames. On the other hand, it is a means of enabling people with these visual or auditory disabilities to live normally or almost normally. The European proposal aims to extend Member States' room for manoeuvre with regard to the application of reduced VAT rates. The Belgian Government thus has the flexibility to allow and activate the reduction of the VAT rate from 21% to 6%. Therefore, after more than a year of waiting, was the budgetary impact of this reduction in the VAT rate assessed? I am not focusing on yourself, but on your department or office, not knowing if the matter has passed through several ministerial offices. If so, can we have the conclusions of this evaluation? And if not, when will it be carried out? It seems quite possible to achieve this in a near time and, in substance, can you move forward on a realization of this reduction, which I believe is medical equipment or at least assistance for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u2	Mrs Fonck, as you pointed out in the introduction to your question, Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to rates, does not provide for a reduced VAT rate of 6 % for mounts, glasses and contact lenses. These products are subject to the VAT rate of 21%. A reduction in this rate from 21 to 6 per cent would cost the State. However, there are no detailed statistics on this subject, as turnover as such is not included in the VAT returns. However, it is possible to estimate the cost of such a measure using the FPS Economy Household Budget Survey. Therefore, the cost to the State is estimated at EUR 98.45 million. It is clear that the feasibility of changing the VAT rate still needs to be examined both at legal and budgetary level. In conclusion, as you know, this government is in day-to-day business and this is clearly not part of it. It is true that Parliament is autonomous in its decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u3	Minister, indeed, the government is in day-to-day business, but this is not the case in Parliament. It seems to me, however, that the possibility of re-examining the issue is truly present today, since this text is currently being examined in the Committee on Health. I think no colleague can tell me that there is no evaluation. I therefore thank you for this macro assessment. I am surprised to learn that you still need to look at it legally. Are there any legal constraints that would prevent the feasibility of this project, even if, in view of what is being done in all Member States on this particular subject, Belgium is one of the last Member States that continues to apply such a high VAT rate on eye- and hearing-type appliances? It seems to me that this makes it possible to remove a number of legal constraints. It is also easy to justify the substance of the subject. Mr President, I would like to re-launch the minister in order to understand. Minister, what are you talking about when you talk about legal constraints?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u4	If I have listened to your question correctly, you are talking about a possible differentiation depending on whether the price of mounts is less than 500 euros or more than 1000 euros. In that case, a legal analysis should be carried out. If it is considered to be a product category where the applicable rate is still 6%, there is, at first glance, no legal constraint.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u5	That's very clear! Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I shall turn now to the Committee on Public Health, where I hope to win the support and support of the various parties to bring together an arithmetic majority. This is an important issue. This allows a number of people to continue to work. I know you're paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the tax shift bis is a mechanism for reducing the social contributions of enterprises active in the e-commerce and construction sectors. These two key sectors for our economy do not benefit from the classic tax shift because they are subject to specific schemes. Being myself active in the construction sector, I still did not find in my workers' social contributions declarations that the tax shift bis had been implemented, and I was worried that it would happen. Minister, what is the status of the implementation of the tax shift bis in the e-commerce and construction sectors? Can you give us details of the measures taken, the remaining measures to be taken and the results achieved? What techniques are envisaged to implement this beautiful device?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u7	Mr Clarinval, concerning the tax component for the construction and e-commerce sectors, I can inform you that, for the exemption from payment of the discount, since 1 January 2018, the concept of professional team work has been extended to on-site real estate work, pursuant to Article 275/5, § 5 of IRC 92. The part of the occupational discount which should not be paid was equal to 3 % of the remuneration of the workers concerned for 2018. For 2019, this part is equal to 6 % of the remuneration of the workers concerned and will be equal to 18 % from 2020. With regard to e-commerce, a regulation has been submitted to the European Commission, according to which the sector would be taken into account for the exemption from the payment of the occupational allowance for night work and shiftwork under the appropriate conditions. The European Commission has not yet taken a position on the compatibility of this regulation with the state aid rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u8	Minister, thank you for this answer that I will examine in detail. It seemed to me that the implementation of this exemption posed difficulties for the construction sector. Your answer says the opposite, so much the better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u9	Mr Minister, as we have read in the press, many players in the audiovisual sector are being undermined by certain positions of the administration which seem to be contrary to the spirit of the tax shelter system. Among these restrictive positions, one of them severely reduces the capacity of Belgian producers to finance audiovisual works through the tax shelter throughout the year, i.e. the pre-expenditure rule. The text of the law is unequivocal in this regard. Thus, a producer can perfectly present to the tax administration eligible expenditure prior to the signature of the Framework Convention by justifying this by the fact that tax shelter funds were not available at the time the first production expenditure was made. Such expenditure should therefore be accepted without any other form of consideration or limitation. However, the tax administration now considers it useful to add to its interpretation of the law that if the producer wishes to present more than 20% of eligible expenditure before the Framework Convention, he must be able to claim "exceptional circumstances". Minister, since this exceptional nature is not provided for by law and the gap between the timing of the tax shelter's fundraising (50% in December of each year) and the expenditure on production is a recurring phenomenon, do you intend to inform your administration that there is no need to interpret the law so restrictively? If so, it should be invited to amend the FAQ 3 (Frequently asked questions) which it published in September 2017. I would also like to stress the importance of rapid action because, if clear instruction on the interpretation of the law is not given in the coming days, very many productions in the performing arts and in the audiovisual arts cannot be financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u10	Minister, the tax shelter cinema has encouraged the creation of works - both feature films and documentaries or television fictions - by providing resources and cash. Without this tax incentive, many works simply could not have been created. The tax shelter was based on one observation: Belgium has a great deal of talent; we must give ourselves the means to exploit them, in order to enable our country's cultural influence. Since its inception, this system has enabled the professionalization and growth of the sector. This increase has, of course, led to the creation of thousands of jobs in a wide variety of industries. The PS group has always been very attentive to the evolution of this tool and has made a significant contribution, a few years ago, to treating the mechanism in the midst of adolescence. Indeed, several abuses had been found. It was therefore necessary to act quickly to put an end to it, without endangering the mechanism itself. According to the news recently published in the press, the world of cinema is again pulling a few alarm bells. Thus, the ISOC reform would have an impact on the amounts raised by the tax shelter. Minister, have you evaluated him? Do you intend to provide an effective solution? A second important point needs to be raised. It seems that the tax administration has adopted an astonishing attitude with regard to the anteriority of expenditure. The law provides that a producer may advance production expenses prior to the signing of the framework agreement, explaining that the funds were not yet available, while some of the first production expenses were essential. However, it seems that the tax administration interprets the law very restrictively, considering that if the producer wants to advance more than 20% of eligible expenditure, he must invoke exceptional circumstances. Do you confirm this information? If so, could you explain why the tax administration behaves in this way? Is this not contrary to the law itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u11	First of all, to answer Mr Piedboeuf's question, I would like to point out that the legislator has provided for a derogation from the general rule for expenditure incurred in the six months preceding the signature of the framework agreement, provided that the eligible production company can justify the reasons for making such expenditure necessary before the signature of the framework agreement. Exceptions justifying the priority of expenditure are expressly provided for in the legal texts. The travaux préparatoires of the law of 12 May 2014 cite, as an example of exceptional cases, the reasons related to the timing of fundraising, which often differs from the timing of production linked, for its part, to the seasons. In order to ensure legal certainty, the reasons for making the necessary expenses are the subject of FAQ 3. If one of the conditions set out in this text is not fulfilled, it goes without saying that the company can claim other exceptional circumstances justifying the priority of the expenditure. To answer Mr Corthouts' question, I would like to point out that the amounts invested by companies to benefit from the tax shelter scheme vary each year. It is impossible to determine the share of the variation between 2017 and 2018 that can be attributed to the corporate tax reform. A bill containing an amendment to the calculation of the amount of the tax shelter exemption, which could erase the impact of the corporate tax reform, will be processed this week or next week. As regards eligible expenditure, the tax shelter scheme provides that such expenditure must be incurred for an audiovisual work within 18 or 24 months of the signature of the framework agreement. The legislator has provided for a derogation from the general rule for expenditure incurred in the six months preceding the signature of the framework agreement, provided that the eligible production company can justify the reasons which made it necessary for such expenditure to be incurred before the said signature. In order to ensure legal certainty, the reasons justifying the anteriority of the expenditure are the subject of FAQ 3 published on September 13, 2017. If the conditions are met, expenditure incurred within six months of the signature of the Framework Convention shall be deemed to constitute eligible expenditure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u12	Minister, thank you, but that doesn't change anything. Exceptional circumstances must exist, but the 20% condition does not exist anywhere. So I don't see why the administration is trying to limit past spending as much as possible. It is known that the production of films takes place over a long period of time and that often there are a series of parameters to gather before the system can be used and before it unlocks funds. There is therefore no reason to be restrictive. Even though parliamentary work refers to exceptional circumstances, which is the case, I find that the administration's interpretative note is not correct and does not comply with the law. I thank you, however, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. I don't understand why the administration is imposing 20%. It's a first thing. You also talked about the bill that the Open Vld Group was going to table. Is it certain that this text will be voted before the end of the legislature? What is the status of the proposed legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u14	This depends on the order of business. I know that there is an amendment this afternoon to the law on various financial and tax shelter provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u15	Of course, this proposal will be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u16	Question No 28169 by Mr Calvo is deleted since he is absent. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vandeput (ED). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Vandeput on his excellent report. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 28172 will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Vanvelthoven's 28175, 28176, 28177, 28178 and 28179 were postponed to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u17	Mr. Chairman, Minister, it is my responsibility that the services of the General Administration of Heritage Documentation have some difficulty in interpreting the provisions of the General Code of Fees and Taxes. In fact, according to article 976 of the Civil Code, civil inheritance law requires that the olograph will be placed in the rank of the notary's minutes before being put into effect. Article 5 of the Code of Miscellaneous Duties and Taxes provides that "the acts of notaries relating to the matrimonial regime or to the property regime of legal cohabitation, to inheritance rights, death certificates, to gifts between wills and gifts, to divorce and to filiation and recognition shall be subject to a right of 7.5 euros". However, in accordance with the instructions given, administrative officials have been instructed to automatically apply the write-off fee, excluding VAT, of EUR 50. In my view, because of this provision, an act of deposit of an olograph will in the context of an estate should be subject, as an act relating to inheritance rights, to the writing right of 7.5 euros. Since this is a systematic overbilling of EUR 42.5 excluding VAT, it would seem to me useful if this question could be finally resolved. Minister, may I ask your position on this and what action you wish to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u18	Mr President, Mr Piedboeuf, the duties referred to in Book I of the Code of Miscellaneous Duties and Taxes are due on a flat-rate basis by type of act. This is Article 11, § 1, of the Code. According to Article 3, notarial acts are subject to the writing right of 50 euros, except for the exceptions provided for in Articles 4 and 5 which are of strict interpretation in tax law. Article 5 to which you refer reduces the right to 7.5 euros for notarial acts relating to the matrimonial regime or to the property regime of legal cohabitation, inheritance rights, death certificates, gifts between living beings, wills and gifts, divorce and filiation and recognition. It does not, however, concern olograph wills, since they are not not notarial acts. It is the document of deposit in the rank of minutes which is subject to the writing fee at the general rate of 50 euros, regardless of the document deposited (testament, sale in private seing, company act, etc.).). Nor is it an act relating to inheritance rights (notarial act, inventory following acceptance under inventory, waiver of succession). Acts of division following divorce or succession, for example, are subject to the rate of 50 euros. The nature of the act does not allow it to be regarded as a family act. Therefore, there is no systematic overbilling by the administration. It shall apply the general tariff provided for in Article 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u19	Minister, the answer is perfectly clear. People will now know what they can stick to. Compared to the previous question, I find that this answer is more satisfactory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 28312 has been postponed. Mrs Smaers has four questions on the agenda, but she can't be here until 11.30 a.m. She'll ask for a respite until then. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 28343 converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u21	Mr President, Mr Minister, at the beginning of October I tabled a question concerning the possibility of raising the threshold for the number of days of telework for a Belgian citizen employed in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Your predecessor replied that negotiations were currently under way between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in order to raise this threshold, which is currently 24 days. It comes to my mind that the negotiations are about to be concluded and that we are now talking about a threshold raised to 48 days. Minister, what is the status of the negotiations on this subject? Is it confirmed that the threshold could be raised to 48 days? If so, can you explain the scope of this new threshold?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u22	Dear colleague, the negotiations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg to possibly raise the tolerance threshold of 24 days have been conducted so far between my predecessor and Luxembourg's Finance Minister, Mr Gramegna. These negotiations have not yet been concluded. The current situation remains unchanged. I met him yesterday at an Ecofin meeting in Brussels. We discussed this briefly and agreed to continue the work on this subject, which was interrupted following the change of Minister of Finance in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u23	Minister, thank you for this information. I'm glad the negotiations resume. I hope that they will be completed before May, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Demir's 28550 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van Hecke; Mr Van
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u25	Minister, I will talk about something other than cross-border matters. I would like to ask you today about the destiny of the administrative city of Arlon, which currently includes several services, such as heritage documentation, collection and collection, taxation, customs and excises and logistics. It was announced in mid-2018 that the customs and excise service would have to leave the building by 2020-2022 to reach Bastogne. One can therefore only question the fate of the whole administrative city. There are fears within the staff. Are these fears well-founded? The building is old and the lease ends on December 31, 2021. Minister, can you inform me of the date on which the customs and excise service will actually leave Arlon for Bastogne? Are other services also planned to be relocated? If so, which ones and where? What will happen to the administrative city at the end of the lease? Will some services enter into a new lease? I'd like to take stock with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u26	Dear colleague, the services of the General Customs and Excise Administration will leave Arlon in the course of 2020 to join Libramont, with the exception of the research services, which will join Liège again this year. All other general administrations will remain in Arlon. A needs programme, approved by the Finance Inspectorate, was forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments, which is responsible for real estate research to find a building that meets the said programme. The administrative city belongs to a private owner who is obviously free to determine the new destination of his property at the end of the lease.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u27	Minister, I am very disappointed by this answer. Over the past twenty years, a great many public jobs have left Arlon to join other cities, and this has not been discussed. Some managers are not replaced; services are moved insidiously. I find it really disappointing and scandalous that no more services are offered to the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u28	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen's motion for a resolution was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 28582 by Mrs Lanjri is deleted, as we have not received any news from the questioner. Then there is Question No 4 on the agenda. 28583 by Mrs Smaers. As already mentioned, Mrs Smaers will be here at 11.30 a.m. Mr Van den Bergh would also come later to ask his questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Deseyn converted 28585 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 28637 has been deleted, as we have not received any news from the questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u29	Mr. President, Minister, we were alerted by the officials of the National Union of Public Services (UNSP) about the problematic decision taken for the Hesbaye region. The SPF Finances leaves the city of Hannut after the closure of the Waremme building, after which the staff, from the beginning of March, will move mainly to Liège and Huy. Access to FPS Finance services in this region will be severely affected. It is regrettable that the FPS Finance continues on the path of blind centralization. The reason for the move is justified since the radon rate is dangerously high in the Hannut building. However, this problem has been known for years, without any alternative being studied. Minister, I would like to ask you about the important issues that have been brought to my attention. Why, in these circumstances, did not extend the lease of the Waremme building? Why not consider occupying the old building of the justice of peace in Hannut, completely renovated and owned by the Régie des Bâtiments? What do you think of the UNSP's suggestion: "Study the creation of a federal house, a multi-purpose house with various federal public services, in order to maintain a community-based public service in this region. It is the services of the FPS Finances, a reception of citizens when tax returns are received, but also other federal permanences. The old building of justice of peace would fit perfectly"? I would simply add this: as a former post office minister, among other public services, you are certainly aware of the situation in these rural or semi-rural areas where, at a time when citizens are being asked – rightly – to make efforts to achieve the ecological transition, it implies the use of the car for the slightest travel. I wonder, therefore, to what extent a more comprehensive solution should be considered within a federal government that would bring together several services in order to provide community service to users. A similar problem has affected my municipality of Aywaille a long time ago. As the FPS Finances has left the municipality, many taxpayers have since made a trip of about 30 kilometres to file their tax returns in Liège. Is it not possible to have a form of multi-service home with federal services, but also with the job that is also a problem in more rural areas? Is it not possible to examine the extent to which we could not think about something that makes sense, so that people continue to have a nearby service and to avoid them having to travel miles that they can't travel otherwise than by car? It is also the problem of SNCB that removes lines, stations. I wonder to what extent the federal state does not have a role to play at this level to reduce the environmental impact of all these movements that citizens must make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u30	Mrs Matz, the problem of radon in Hannut was not known at the time when the decision in line with the general government reorganization plan was taken concerning the closure of the then underoccupied Waremme building and at the end of the lease agreement. The termination of the lease of the Waremme building, rue Malvoz, was communicated by the Régie to the owner on June 6, 2017. Decisions had been made well before that date. The first results of the radon campaign came at that time, but it was much later that it became clear that the corrective measures we were taking (ventilation) did not produce any results on radon levels. Currently, the building is still available to the Justice FPS. In accordance with the decisions taken by the general administrations of the FPS Finances on reorganization, it was planned to leave Hannut's residence at the end of the lease, on 31 March 2020, by recentralizing the services in Huy and Liège. It should also be recalled that a building management programme is not improvising and is linked to a needs analysis submitted and validated by the authorities and the Finance Inspectorate, sometimes several years before the end of the lease. On the other hand, a new application for occupation must be made in the same pattern and must of course be able to justify itself. The abandonment of Hannut's residence does not mean, however, that the FPS Finance will no longer provide services in this region of the country. In fact, as part of the provision of services, filling assistance will be offered to individuals in Hannut in 2019 during the tax return reporting period, in a manner that remains to be defined. With regard to the Small and Medium-sized Business Administration, the target audience will not be affected by the closure of Hannut's residence since the provision of services has only been organised within the infocenters since October 1, 2018. For Hannut, this is the one in Liège. In my view, the inter-federal initiative that you mentioned should come from the Régie des Bâtiments, like the satellite offices already installed throughout the country. It should be noted that this would require significant coordination, a permanent presence of host staff and a significant budgetary cost. As explained above, the provision of services to Hannut for FPS Finance will not be affected by this closure decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u31	Minister, I hear that individuals will be assisted in completing their statements, but you can't tell me more. Yet this moment will happen quite quickly. If the Régie des Bâtiments must indeed keep a certain step backwards, I think it is policy to ask it to study a particular multi-service option. Without a political decision, the Régie will not. This does require coordination, but service to the public requires overcoming the compartmentalizations that each organization has organized in its own service. I am pleased to know the location of this permanence that will help individuals complete their tax returns. We can only regret this decision once again, which does not subscribe to the principle of service to the public and is not part of a form of transition to which everyone should contribute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u32	Mr Minister, my question concerns the aid measure in relation to the destabilized zones. The classification dislocated zone is somewhat bizarre, but this concept was created and registered in the Competitiveness Act after Ford Genk in Limburg had made the decision to close the factory. After all, that was a measure with a huge impact. Explaining the intention of this measure is probably superfluous for my question. It is, however, a question of a two-year reduction of 25% on the farm levy for companies that come to settle here with each new recruitment. I regularly ask the Minister of Finance for a state of affairs. Can you clarify exactly how many forms have been submitted? How many new jobs have been created? Can you also estimate the amount of the tax exemption granted? Secondly, can you give an overview of the number of new jobs, if possible with the distribution between SMEs and larger companies? Thirdly, can you also clarify how many new companies have established themselves under this scheme? It is my conviction that this measure has been very successful and that it would therefore be best continued. That's my next question. Will there be an evaluation of the measure? Is the measure intended to be maintained? The last question concerns the Royal Decrees implementing the legislation. The legislation has been amended by the law of 30 July 2018. However, there are still no royal decrees implementing this law. Are you working on that? Can we expect these royal decisions from this government in current cases? In my view, this should not be an obstacle, since it concerns the implementation of a law which has been approved by Parliament with great approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u33	Mr President, Mr Dewael, a total of 465 forms were submitted to the documentation centres on 23 January 2019. The number of new jobs planned is 6 788.80 in Belgium, of which 5 862 jobs are in Flanders. In Limburg, the number of jobs planned is 4 061, which is the highest number. The estimated amount of the exemption from the farm levy granted is EUR 30 234 869 for Belgium. I will also give you a more detailed table, which gives an overview at the level of the different cities. Finally, I would also like to inform you that the number of jobs created for SMEs is 4 700.8 and for large enterprises is 2 088. In total, 52 companies, established after 1 May 2015, benefit from these measures. No specific evaluation of the measures taken in the assisted areas is currently planned. However, this can be started upon request. As a result of political developments, the publication of the relevant royal implementing decisions has been delayed. In the meantime, the legal procedure was resumed by my cabinet. The publication of this royal decree can certainly be expected before the end of this reign.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I will make your reply clear through the appropriate channels, including in Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u35	Via The Importance of Limburg.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u36	The Limburg State Gazette.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 28689 question was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 28707 by Mr Dallemagne, for the Minister for the Budget, Mrs Wilmès.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u38	Mr President, Minister, my question is relatively technical and its development is quite long. It deals with the consequences of the application of the patent income deduction during the transitional period permitted by Article 543 of the Income Tax Code 1992 (IARC 92) and its impact on research and development costs to be deducted from gross income when the innovation income deduction is first applied. I am saving you the reading of section 205 of IARC 92. However, in the light of this article, it can still be inferred that the research and development costs incurred during the accounting years ending before 30 June 2016 by a company wishing to apply the innovation income deduction for the first time should not decrease the company's gross innovation income when determining net innovation income. It can also be inferred that, where a company wishes to continue to apply the patent income deduction during the transitional period from July 1, 2016 to June 30, 2021, as permitted by Article 543 of IARC 92, the research and development costs incurred by the company during that period must also not decrease innovation income when the company is finally required to apply the innovation income deduction from July 1, 2021. In the question that has been forwarded to you, I refer to a case to illustrate the problem. But I will exempt you from reading this example and come directly to the question of the costs that were incurred in the years 2016 and 2017, that is, in the years after 2015, but prior to the application of the patent income deduction. Indeed, the law seems to remain silent about this subject and this period. It would be strange and contrary to the spirit of the law to consider that costs that would have been incurred prior to the application of the patent income deduction scheme should be charged against gross innovation income from July 1, 2021, whereas research and development costs incurred during the period of application of the patent income deduction scheme should not be taken into account when determining net innovation income for the first time. I have set you a time line that allows you to understand this situation that seems strange to say the least. It seems to me that the intent of the text is rather to insert a pivotal date before which research and development costs are cancelled and after which research and development costs will have to be deducted from gross innovation revenues in order to determine their net revenues. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, should you confirm that section 205 of IRC 92 should be understood as meaning that, in the event that the taxpayer elects to apply the patent income deduction during the transitional period authorized by section 543 of IRC 92, all research and development costs incurred before July 1, 2021 must not reduce the gross innovation revenues collected from that date?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u39	Mr President, Mr Dispa, if the company opts for the transitional scheme of the patent income deduction, all expenses incurred before and during this transitional period fall within the scope of the patent income deduction and do not, in principle, fall within the scope of the innovation income deduction for the determination of net innovation income. For all useful purposes, it is recalled that the costs incurred during the application of the patent income deduction scheme must be taken into account in determining the so-called Nexus fraction referred to in Article 205/3, IRC 92.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. If the question and the answer are of a rather technical nature, I have no doubt that the companies concerned will be attentive to the exchange we have had on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u41	Minister, the pension savings system allows for a tax reduction of 30% on a maximum payment of EUR 980, or 25% on a maximum amount of EUR 1 230, to a pension savings fund or pension insurance fund. Of this payment, most banks or insurance companies charge entry fees, usually 3%. These rights are the responsibility of the distributor, not the fund management company. I do not dispute the principle of these entry fees, but rather the fact that they are deducted from the amount actually paid into the pension savings fund or pension insurance fund. Indeed, if one takes the 980 euro method, the subscriber pays 980 euros; it is not 980 euros that are paid into his pension savings fund, but 980 euros minus the 3%, or 950.60 euros. At 3% on any new subscription throughout the life of an individual's pension savings, the amount thus lost is far from negligible. If a person is going to contribute on average for 30 years for his/her pension savings, the 29.40 euros will become a total of 882 euros. If one then considers that the value of all the capital constituted, regardless of the date of payment, will be multiplied on average at least by two over the entire duration of the pension savings, it can be estimated approximately, but very cautiously, that the amount lost for the formation of the final capital will, on average, amount to 1,764 euros per person. In overall terms, with professional organisations accounting for 1.6 million bank pension savings accounts and 1.3 million pension insurance contracts, the overall amount lost by investors and non-invested on the stock exchange would therefore amount to EUR 5.1 billion over 30 years and EUR 85.3 million per year. This gives an idea of the extent of the problem. The aim of the legislator, by granting this tax advantage to individuals, was to ensure that the amount used as a basis for tax reduction was invested in listed securities, especially venture capital, with a dual view that this investment would benefit the Belgian economy and increase the resources of individuals at the time of their retirement. The fact that part of this amount is used to return to financial institutions in the form of distribution fees does not seem to me to be consistent with the legislator's objective. The latter did not intend to provide a revenue to the financial institutions charged to the public treasury. Minister, I had already asked your predecessor this question in April 2016 but his answer had not alleviated my fears. On the contrary, the elements of the answer he had given me justified the opposite of the one he seemed to be advocating. According to Article 145/8 of IARC 92, the amount to be taken into account for the tax reduction is that paid for the creation of a savings account or as a premium for savings insurance. In the example of my question, the 980 euros were paid by the taxpayer, not the 950.60 euros. On the other hand, contrary to what your predecessor said, it is by not charging entry fees on the amount legally paid that equal treatment of taxpayers is ensured. In this way, all subscribers paying 980 euros will actually have 980 euros invested in their account, regardless of the amount of the entry fees since they will be paid outside of this payment. Minister, shouldn't the amount paid into the pension savings or pension insurance funds be the amount paid by the subscriber prior to any entry fees? Do you think that if financial institutions wish to receive remuneration in the form of entry fees for the distribution of pension savings or pension insurance shares, this remuneration, provided it is reasonable in proportion to the service rendered, should be billed separately from the legally authorized amount of the payment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u42	My position on this issue, my colleague, is in line with that of my predecessor. The text of Article 145/8 of IARC 92 is clear: the amount to be taken into account for the tax reduction of pension savings is that paid for the establishment of an individual or collective savings account or paid as a premium for savings insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u43	Minister, thank you. Your answer gives me the same frustration as when your predecessor told me that the administration maintained its position. In this case, the arguments I have tried to make deserve more consideration. I will not fail to return to the burden in another environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u44	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control (CPCL) recently issued an opinion on a complaint filed by a French-speaking resident of Hal who had used tax-on-web software and whose impression of the IPP declaration was made only in Dutch. The CPCL rightly considered that these were communications to the public of the FPS Finances, which, pursuant to section 40(2), laws on the use of languages in administrative matters must be drafted in French and Dutch, and that consequently the impression of the declaration should have been available in French. The Court of Cassation had thus stated, in a judgment of 19 May 2016, that this meant that these opinions and communications were intended for the general public, i.e. any possible user, regardless of the linguistic region in which he is located, without distinction of persons. As a result, Minister, can you let me know what steps you intend to take to ensure that this advice from the CPCL is respected by your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u45	Ms Caprasse, with regard to the opinion of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control, it should be noted that the FPS Finance did not answer the questions of the CPCL in this case, so that the Commission's opinion is based solely on the facts as mentioned by the taxpayer. In accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Code 1992 (IRC 92), the return must be returned to the service indicated on the form, which is a regional service. According to the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters, taxpayers who have their tax domicile in a municipality located in the homogeneous Dutch-speaking region must submit their paper declaration to the tax of natural persons exclusively in the language of that region. IRC 92 equates electronic reporting with paper reporting and language legislation is the same for both paper reporting and tax-on-web reporting. However, in order to facilitate the taxpayer's task, the tax-on-web application offers the taxpayer, at the filling stage, the possibility of using the other language. The tax-on-web declaration actually subscribed – that is, that which is saved in PDF format and which can be printed – must always comply with the legislation on the use of languages in administrative matters. This is precisely the case for Hal's inhabitant, who used this application in the French version for the filling of the declaration and whose printing is possible only in the language of the linguistic region where this inhabitant has established her tax domicile, that is, Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u46	Minister, I am very surprised at your answer. In my view, the tax return is not regionalized, as it was still available in the federal government. I am therefore surprised that the person concerned is not entitled to fill out her documents in French. Will it still have access to a paper version to make things easier, instead of using tax-on-web? I haven't heard any further complaints. So I suppose the other inhabitants enjoy the ease of responding in their own language. I do not know if this is a computer error, but I am astonished at your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u47	Ms Caprasse, to be precise, the electronic version can be found on tax-on-web in the language you choose. By definition, the printed version must be readable in the language of the language region. In short, if you want to consult the electronic version, it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u48	One can say that one wants it in French. The written papers are another matter. However, it is about Halle and not about Kraainem. With tax-on-web, anyone can easily change it to French. I don't quite understand where the discrimination is. Perhaps you could go to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u49	Deputy Prime Minister, the press has echoed a possible delay in the reimbursement of households with children by the tax authorities. This would be the case in a court case between the federal state and a taxpayer. As you may know, if these facts are proven, there is a risk that many families will find themselves in financial difficulties. Many of them have planned expenditure on the basis of such reimbursements and any delay could have negative consequences. Therefore, notwithstanding the compliance with the legal procedure referred to, could you take stock of the risk of late payment by households? What steps have been taken, if any, to limit non-compliance with the deadlines?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u50	As a reminder, the legal deadline for determining the tax payable or to be refunded is June 30 of the year following the year in which the return is filed. For the 2018 tax return, 2018 income tax year 2017, tax owing or payable can therefore be assessed until June 30, 2019. Of course, my administration is making every effort to process tax returns as quickly as possible. In fact, the vast majority of taxpayers receive their snippet warning long before June 30th. From this point of view, recruitment operations are in advance this year compared to last year: at the end of January 2019, 5.8 million returns at the 2018 tax year had been enrolled, compared to 5.3 million returns at the end of January 2018. While the enrolment process is rather ahead of schedule this year, it is true that the registration of reports from couples with children was initiated later than last year. In fact, court decisions had pointed out the non-compliance of the Belgian tax provisions with regard to the matter under European law. Belgian legislation has therefore been adapted accordingly. This adjustment has made the calculation of the tax extremely complex, since, as you have read in the press, no less than sixteen calculations must be performed to determine the final result that is most favourable to the taxpayer. The new version of the calculation is available for couples with children since 30 November 2018 and the recruitment of the relevant files has therefore started from that date. It should be noted that the later registration of these cases involves both taxpayers who receive a tax refund and those for whom the result of the tax calculation results in an amount payable to the tax administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u51	I thank the minister for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u52	Minister, I had already asked your predecessor about the work under way in the Senior Finance Council (SFC). With the change of minister, we can hope that the approach is different. A report on a PPI reform was requested some time ago. Whatever one thinks of this request, I wonder what might emerge from this report. For a long time, we had the impression that the work of the CSF was in practice. The press had learned that the president of the Tax and Tax Section had thrown the sponge because of difficulties in reconciling each other's opinions and promoting a common working methodology. Minister, how do you judge the current situation in the CSF? Is the presidency always held by the member with the most seniority? Is there a change in this regard? What's the status of the work? Are they still dead? A timing was announced for February. Will it be respected or not? Have the objectives of this report been changed to your initiative? Have you made any other new arrangements, a little different from your predecessor, especially with regard to the CSF secretariat? Thank you for taking stock of the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u53	Following the implementation of the tax shift, my predecessor asked the Tax and Tax Section of the CSF to propose, in a new study, possible avenues for a major tax reform. The study was delayed by a change in the composition of the section and the secretariat. However, since December 2018, the section has been complete again. In addition, the secretariat was strengthened by two experts from the National Bank and a para-fiscal expert appointed by the Minister of Social Affairs. With the support of internal and external experts, the section is now fully committed to the requested report. The purpose of the report is to provide basic elements for the next government. The outline of the original design is retained. The publication of the report is scheduled for early summer. In accordance with the rules of procedure, Mr. Matthijs now serves as Acting Section President. His involvement in previous work does not play a role in this. What is important is that he has been actively involved in the work on this report from the outset. In accordance with Article 13 of the Royal Decree of 23 May 2018 on the CSF, it is for the Council of Ministers to appoint a new president of the section. In view of the resignation of the current government, it seems to me that this task falls to the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. I note that the preparation of the report is postponed for a few months. Of which act. Thank you for the information on the new composition of the Supreme Council of Finance. I am not going to make any individual comments, under any circumstances. You announce the arrival of experts from the National Bank for the secretariat. I would like to point out that the secretariat, as previously managed, has always been of high professional quality. I believe that the new formula will be positive, but I would like to pay tribute to all those who have previously assumed this function of secretariat to the general satisfaction. As far as the Presidency is concerned, I understand that you consider that it is not within the competence of a government in day-to-day affairs to make this decision. It's an important decision. We are all attentive to the best possible functioning of the important body of the Supreme Council of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u55	Minister, we're in the middle of something. Yesterday, we held a hearing with the Federal Ombudsman's office on his report on the strategy for tax debt collection in the FPS Finances. The least we can say is that this report asks questions about how your department acts to recover tax debts. The report focuses on taxpayers who wish to pay but cannot afford to pay their debt in a short period of time. Taxpayers are particularly affected if they are poorly or poorly pre-counted. On the one hand, it is obviously essential that tax debts be honoured as soon as possible, but on the other hand, the role of the State is not to impoverish taxpayers who are already in difficult financial situations. That would be an inappropriate approach. The report also highlights the attitude of judicial officers, over whom the administration could not exercise control and which often impose exorbitant costs on taxpayers already ill-developed. Minister, you announced in the press that you had forwarded the report to the FPS Finances. Has this been done well? Could you tell me what action the FPS Finance will take on this report? In what time frame? I would like to draw your attention to the judicial officers part of the report. It is essential to be able to control their actions and to limit the costs they add to taxpayers. Could you explain to me what you intend to do to remedy this problem and in what time frame?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u56	The Federal Ombudsman's report on the tax debt collection strategy has been forwarded to my administration, which has already taken various steps to better inform the debtors about the possibilities of payment. The FPS Finance website has thus been adapted to clarify information on the possibility of obtaining a payment plan and the conditions for obtaining it. Citizens targeted as likely to have payment problems - such as those who in the previous year paid their tax debt after the visit of a judicial officer - have been receiving since 2018, with their extractive warning, information about the possibility of requesting a payment plan. When my administration refuses a payment plan, it expressly mentions the possibility of using the tax conciliation service. In order to anticipate possible payment problems, my administration has contacted the social secretariats and the Social Integration PPS to establish a project on tax volunteering and early payment. As part of this project, debtors can voluntarily, apart from the professional discount, retain part of their salary as an advance on recurring annual tax and thus avoid a spiral of increasing debts. The results of this project are expected in the second quarter of 2019. In the new computer application, a waiting period is also provided between the termination of an unfulfilled payment plan and the commencement of forced recovery. After notification of the termination of the payment plan, the citizen still has the opportunity to contact the administration and possibly resume the plan. In addition, my administration never sends a file to the judicial officer without having previously examined whether the costs of this procedure are related to the expected performance. My administration is planning to implement further measures very soon. For example, in assessing capacity to pay, account will be taken of the exceptional costs that citizens have to bear. This margin of appreciation does not always seem to be well known and my administration will remind its staff to take this into account. In addition, a new category of debtors, for which a payment plan of more than 12 months would be determined without a stay, falls within the scope of the procedure of administrative settlement of debts. Over the course of this year, my administration will more objectively define the concept of payment difficulty and will establish new guidelines to provide better guidance to the debtors in question, for example through collaboration with CPAS. My administration has also asked the SPP Social Integration to extend the project of experts on the experience of poverty and social exclusion to the infocenters. The experts in question will therefore be able to provide permanent assistance to citizens in the process of completing their administrative formalities. A recruitment procedure was launched via Selor on 23 January. Also in collaboration with the Social Integration PPS, my administration will examine how to transpose the calculation of the reference budget into the framework of the administrative settlement of debts. In addition, during periods of enrolment, my administration will remind the taxpayer (via Facebook and Twitter) of the possibility to request a payment plan in case of difficulties, which will facilitate and encourage the use of the MyMinfin application. With regard to prosecutions, the principles of good administration will be reflected in the recovery strategy of my administration and the protocol of collaboration with the judicial officers will be reviewed. As part of the evaluation of the judicial officers, my administration will verify whether the prosecution costs they apply are relevant to the outcome of their actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u57	I just heard you exhibit a rather impressive road map. Let us hope that it can be implemented quickly and that we can carry out an evaluation of its implementation. In any event, I note that the mediators' report already seems to have some effect. I reiterate my wish to see an exchange with the administration of recovery in the wake of the hearing of the mediators. An exchange that should allow us to get to the bottom of things - with the permission of the minister of course. This is an area of concern, for which we must be able to find structural solutions. I hear about contacts with CPAS and the Federal Social Integration Service. Moreover, the memorandum of understanding with the judicial officers will be reviewed. I hope that there will be on the agenda the framework of the tariffs charged by the judicial officers. In any case, I take note of the answers and will not fail to come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u58	The next item is questions by Mr Luk Van Biesen. These would be postponed, but I will let him speak myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u59	Mr President, I should like to ask you a question. Question No 28227 and Question No 2827 I would like to postpone 28228 because we need a little more time to do so. Debates of the European Parliament However, I would like to say 28226.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u60	Mr President, Minister, it happens that an intra-European company, as defined in Article 2 (1) (5°), (b) bis of the Income Tax Code, is making the branching of its existing Belgian permanent establishment through a contribution to the generality of the assets and liabilities of the establishment in a domestic company. This contribution may be exempted in respect of the existing Belgian permanent establishment in the tax of non-residents, on the basis of Article 231 (2) or on the basis of Article 231 (3). Assuming that the conditions for the application of Articles 231 (2) and 231 (3) respectively are fulfilled, can the taxable person choose freely which article he invokes? If so, should he disclose this choice and, in the affirmative, how should the taxpayer do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u61	Mr President, Article 231 (2) and (3) of the 1992 WIB may in some cases be applied to the same operation, particularly in the specific case of the branching of a Belgian permanent establishment of an intra-European company. For example, § 2 specifically identifies triangular operations carried out under merger directives. The more general wording of this paragraph would make it possible, in the very specific case referred to in the question, to apply this paragraph to this operation. However, prior to the introduction of this more general provision in Paragraph 2, there was already a specific provision for the affiliate of a Belgian establishment in Paragraph 3. Consequently, the provision specifically introduced for this purpose, namely § 3, must be applied to this operation in so far as the conditions are met, by reason of the remuneration in shares. The larger § 2 can only be applied if the conditions of § 3 were not met, i.e. when a charge is made in cash in such a transaction, so that it can be determined in accordance with § 2 to what extent and how these own funds items are taken over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Biesen and Mr 28227 and Mr 28228 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u63	Mr President, Minister, Article 101 of the Programme Act of 25 December 2017 replaced the term "collective investment firm in securities" contained in Article 19a of the Income Tax Code by the term "collective investment undertaking." In accordance with Article 103 of the same Programme Act, that amendment applies to income paid or granted for units of a collective investment undertaking acquired from 1 January 2018. Mr Minister, can you clarify which collective investment undertakings were added by deleting that reference to "in securities" and which were therefore not covered by the old provision of Article 19a before 1 January 2018? In this context, can you also specify the situation of a SICAV-SIF set up in 2015 under Luxembourg law as a variable-capital investment company qualifying as a closed-ended private alternative collective investment undertaking under Luxembourg law? This is a Luxembourg investment company which is ranked among the alternative collective investment undertakings and of which several compartments invest in unlisted mezzanine debt instruments and loans issued by or granted to European small and medium-sized unlisted companies. This includes participations in non-listed companies and partnerships or joint ventures with a view to achieving a longer and indeterminate realisation. Although it may also include publicly negotiable bonds, most of the investments are privately issued subordinated bonds that are not negotiable due to contractual transfer restrictions. The majority of the fund's investments are therefore illiquid in nature. For this reason, the units of the fund cannot be purchased at the request of the investor, nor can there be a liquid secondary market for the marketing of those units.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u64	Mr President, Mr Van Biesen, Article 19a, before being amended by the Programme Act of 25 December 2017, was originally only applicable to European funds with a European passport and to funds outside Europe, after which it was extended to European funds without a European passport. The article referred to the term UCITS, which stands for "undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities," which meant that there was uncertainty as to the application of that Article to the AICBs. A UCITS is a term derived from European law, where it refers to investment institutions with a European passport. The explanatory memorandum of the Act states that the purpose of the replacement of the term "collective investment institution in securities' by the term "collective investment undertaking' is to ensure that alternative collective investment undertakings also fall within the scope of Article 19a of the WIB 92 when they invest not only in securities as defined in the Royal Decree of 12 November 2012 on UCITS. Therefore, AICBs that did not only invest in securities as defined in the aforementioned Royal Decree did not fall within the scope of Article 19a of the WIB 92 prior to this legislative amendment. Since the securities in the Royal Decree are all liquid in nature, it can be concluded that a fund the investments of which are reasonably illiquid, so that they can never be eligible for obtaining a passport, or which serves to ensure that the fund is not open and does not allow units to be accepted at any time by the investment company itself at the investor's request, belongs to that group of CIUs which were brought under the scope of Article 19a WIB 92 by the amendment of the Law of 25 December 2017. Only the acquisition and trading of units acquired by this CIU from 1 January 2018 will be covered by the new scope of application. Rights of participation already acquired before 1 January 2018 shall not be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u65	I thank the Minister for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u66	We approved that 30 years ago in this committee. I was there. It was a realization of CD&V. The decumulation was for the non-CD&Vs. First it was the liberals, with Verhofstadt still on the Budget. That was actually realized under Maystadt, with the socialists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u67	Mr President, I originally tabled this question as a written question, as did a number of other questions. However, when the new minister took office, they all had to be retabled. Mr Minister, my question about the marriage quotient is mainly about a state of affairs. What is the budgetary cost of the marriage quotient? I also asked for a historical overview of this, from 2010 until now. Do you know the number of couples who use the marriage quotient? What share of two-earning couples makes use of it? What's their average tax advantage? What proportion of earner couples makes use of it? What's their average tax advantage? What is the number of dependent children in the above couples, if possible classified according to the number of dependent children? Can a breakdown of the number of flocks by age class be given? I know I'm asking for a lot of data, and when it comes to a whole list of numbers, you don't have to read them all out. You can also give me that answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u68	The analysis of the budgetary costs based on the application of the marriage quotient and the beneficiaries in this respect was carried out on the basis of the new software Aurora of the FPS Finance. The analysis was carried out for the tax years 2015 to 2017, respectively, for the years 2014 to 2016. The analysis shows that the budgetary cost for the application of the marriage quotient is EUR 640 million for the tax year 2015. For the 2016 and 2017 tax years, 625 million euros and 629 million euros respectively. Since the second part of your question concerns a great deal of statistical information, I have instructed my administration to provide a full answer to your parliamentary question No. 2239. The reply to this was lodged with the Registry of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u69	So it's worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u70	It is a considerable amount, but the tax shift is EUR 8 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u71	Mr President, Minister, this is also a technical question. Here too I will give my introduction. My question was tabled as a written question, but it was not answered either. This concerns a technical question on the 80% limit following the second pension pillar for self-employed natural persons. In the meantime, we have dealt with the dossier in 2018 in the Chambers Committee and in the plenary. To a recent question from me, your predecessor replied that the RIZIV agreements should also be proclaimed. I had another question about how the 80% limit is best calculated in practice. That question has not been answered in the past. The POZ contracts that are or have been launched from now or recently may be calculated on the basis of the pension statements issued by the insurer in 2018. A distinction is always made between the projected or expected pension capital and the acquired pension capital. The difference between the two amounts may give an indication for the calculation of the 80% limit, although it may be more difficult to follow this approach over the years, especially as contributions and expected pension capital will fluctuate. A more accurate method of calculation will therefore be required in this respect. This will not be easy if the person concerned is affiliated with different insurers for the POZ and the PAVZ. In the absence of precise calculations, more pragmatic calculations may be used, i.e. the time-scale equivalency calculation. The specialist press argued and exchanged views on this subject. A number of examples can also be found in the specialist press as to what is happening in function of these calculations. This showed that there is still uncertainty. I will not take the example from the specialist press completely again. However, it was given in the question. That is why I have the following questions for you. Can you confirm that the more pragmatic maturity proportional calculation may be used to determine the 80 % limit? If not, how should the calculation proceed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, I am a fan of giving short answers by my administration. The answer is as follows. For pragmatic reasons, in your example, the proportional calculation according to the duration may be applied to the extra-statutory pensions to be taken into account when setting the 80% limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u73	Mr President, Minister, that is useful. Sometimes the answer doesn't have to be long. It can also be short and good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u74	Mr President, Minister, this is yet another converted written question. SMEs may reserve part of their taxed profits on a separate liability account each year. An anticipatory levy of 10% is then paid by the company itself. The reserves entered in that liability account will then be paid duty-free to shareholders in the event of liquidation. If these reserves are distributed as dividends after five years, an additional withholding tax of 5% will be payable. If these reserves are distributed as dividends within five years, an additional withholding tax of 15% will apply. That liquidation reserve or VVPRter was introduced by the Programme Act of 19 December 2014 and subsequently extended to the financial years 2012 and 2013, especially for companies operating with broken financial years. In practice, there is now a discussion as to whether a liquidation reserve should be deposited annually or earlier at a later date with retroactive application until the previous financial years. This is because the legal text does not seem to clarify this. However, in an earlier answer to a parliamentary question, your predecessor stated that the liquidation reserve can only relate to the after-tax accounting profit, in particular the profit to be earmarked for the financial year. It can be found under code 9905 of the financial statements model, which should imply that the profits from previous financial years or transferred results cannot therefore be used for the construction of the ordinary liquidation reserve. That's why I'm asking you these questions. Can you confirm that the liquidation reserve must be established annually? If not, why not? My second question follows from the answer to the first part of my previous question. In your view, can the liquidation reserve relate only to the profit to be earmarked for the financial year, which means that profits from the previous financial year or the results transferred cannot be used to build the ordinary liquidation reserve? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u75	The current legal text now provides that the company considered to be a small company under the Code of Companies may establish a liquidation reserve. She can do that every year, but she is by no means obliged to do so. The amount of the liquidation reserve is indeed limited to the amount of the profit to be allocated for the post-tax financial year, which can be found under code 9905 of the National Bank's annual accounts models. In other words, each year a small company has the option of creating a liquidation reserve, whether or not to the maximum extent, for the following year's profit to be allocated to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u76	I have included it very much in both the Finance Committee and in the Business Committee for the daily merchant and the neighborhood trade. They must live with limited margins. They don't have it easy. Two years ago, a resolution was also adopted in this House on support for newspaper trade. They have three important components in their portfolio, on which they can make a profit. That is, on the one hand, tobacco and, on the other hand, the written press. In addition, there are lottery products, everything related to gambling products. My question is about the tobacco product component, which is an important part of their range and which still allows them to make a profit. The daily merchants reported that the increase in excise duties on tobacco products that have been introduced in the past is mainly paid by the daily merchant rather than by the consumer. Apparently, the bandrol price, the price for the consumer of such a pack of tobacco or cigarettes, is fixed by the producer himself. Around 80% of this price is made up of different levies and taxes and about 20% is related to the production and actual product price of cigarettes or tobacco. In recent years, excise duties on tobacco products have been systematically increased, entirely to our liking, including in the context of the tax shift. However, when these increases were introduced, they did not always reach consumers. However, this was the purpose of these increases. Producers seem to take account of this increase in excise duty in the granting of their commercial discounts to daily dealers, with the result that they have shrunk sharply in recent months and years. In this way, the margins of daily dealers are getting smaller and smaller. This completely contradicts the questions and wishes of this Parliament regarding the support of the daily merchant. In recent years, the margin for cigarettes stood at about 7%. Due to the evolution of excise duty increases and their non-calculation to the consumer, where this increase is actually included in the daily merchant's margin, the margin has now been reduced to just over 5%. Can excise duties be passed on to the daily merchant, but not to the end user? In fact, increases in excise duties have both a budgetary objective and a health eye. This last objective in particular means that it must have an effect on the consumer and not on someone in the chain. That is the daily merchant we also want to support. It is therefore logical that the additional costs of excise duties should not be deducted from the discount and other commercial arrangements by the producer importer in respect of the retailer, but be passed on to the final consumer. In this respect, I would like to refer to my resolution, which sought to strengthen the text and which clearly stated that it was also necessary to use the margin increase in daily newspapers. Minister, are you aware that the practice quoted is being applied in the sector? If so, is this problem already being discussed in your opinion? What was the outcome of that? Do you agree that an increase in excise duty should be borne by the final consumer, as in the adage paid by the user or the consumer? Or do you believe that an increase in excise duty should or can be borne by the intermediary? Is it possible, in your view, for a legal order to be included in those charging arrangements, so that an increase in excise duty cannot be incorporated into discounts and commercial arrangements between manufacturers and daily newspapers, which means that the increase will ultimately be borne by the end user? If so, will you prepare a legislative initiative for this? If not, what then?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u77	Firstly, I am not familiar with the practice you have mentioned in the sector. Secondly, like VAT, excise duties are indirect taxes borne by consumers and perfectly fit within the adage the user or consumer pays. The aim of an increase in excise duties is, among other things, to bring about changes in consumer behaviour. As you yourself say, increases in excise duties have both a budgetary purpose and a health eye. They therefore have no purpose whatsoever in influencing commercial relations. For your third question, please address the Minister of Economy Kris Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u78	Minister, I am glad that the problem is well known to you. I hope that you will be able to work on this in your short term as Minister of Finance. You'd be supporting a lot of newspaper dealers with it. I am pleased that you confirm that indirect taxes are to be borne by the final consumer and should not be offset in commercial discounts. As for your last answer, I will put the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I hope he can give an order to the chain so that the daily trade doesn't get the commercial discount off.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament The text of Mrs Jadin's 28384 is deleted. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Demir's 28550 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke and Mrs De Crom have converted 28553 and 28765 into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 28582 question was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u80	Minister, I have already asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a similar question. So you will not have to tell me later that I have to ask him this question. In view of the subject matter, I believe that this question should also be addressed to you. In recent years, the financial sector has been strongly committed to digitalisation. As Minister responsible for Digital Agenda, you are right to make a strong commitment to this. Traditional customer services are increasingly shifting to online services and online payment forms. Banks therefore close many offices in our country, something that we have been able to identify in recent months and years with several large financial institutions. However, the digitisation and closure of offices must also take into account the group of people who cannot keep up with digital evolution. Apparently, there are more and more people who can't cope with the rapid digital evolution. They often have to move much further to a bank office now, especially if it is not really in urban areas. Your predecessor has already answered questions concerning financial literacy, including a question from Mr Deseyn. Minister Van Overtveldt replied that the FSMA project Wikifin has had the necessary successes and that the financial formation of pupils will have an important place in the future. In that context, it would be good to get an update on that project. Is there also a possibility of providing such education or other support to older and vulnerable people? Mr. Secretary, can you update the Wikifin project and the pilot projects? Secondly, can you clarify whether there is any possibility of providing the necessary training and assistance for older people who are not directly digitally trained? If so, what measures can be taken? I have also become aware of a project which seems to be taking place in cooperation with Wallonia. Wallonia apparently has a lot of projects in this area in cooperation with associations and bodies. For example, they have an agence numérique that gives a lot of education to both elderly and vulnerable people in terms of digital payment and digital literacy. This can be taken as an example. Can the Wikifin project also play a role in further formations? Can projects also be launched with OCMWs and PPS Social Integration, so that more education in dealing with digital payment can be achieved for the most vulnerable? The evolution towards digital payments and services will continue in the coming years and these people will no longer be able to follow. Finally, can you explain whether there are figures on the number of financial illiterates or at least on the number of complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u81	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, in reply to your questions, I would remind you that Wikifin, the FSMA's financial education programme, was launched on 31 January 2013. To make citizens more financially literate, the FSMA has built up a programme around three pillars: the web portal wikifin.be, education and the promotion of cooperation with stakeholders. The Wikifin portal aims to make financial information available and accessible to everyone, including older people, in an accessible way. The website was visited more than 2 million times in the course of 2018, which shows that the consumer is looking for clear and reliable information. The second pillar is education. At the end of 2015, the FSMA launched the digital platform Wikifin School Challenge to better support teachers working with financial education in the classroom. The platform offers free very diverse teaching material. Meanwhile, 4 500 teachers registered and the material was downloaded 12 000 times. Financial education will enter education from September 2019 in Flanders and in the Walloon-Brussels Federation. To this end, the FSMA and its educational partners have developed a framework in this area. In 2019, an important new initiative will take shape with the opening of the Wikifin Lab, the center of financial education by the FSMA. The Wikifin Lab is mainly aimed at secondary school pupils and is conceived as a real experience centre. Young people can experience financial education in a playful, interactive and didactic way. Three major themes will be addressed: firstly, the challenges and influences faced by consumers; secondly, the savings and investment choices that consumers can make; and thirdly, the impact of their individual choices on society. The third pillar is the promotion of cooperation with stakeholders. Wikifin operates on the basis of a cooperation model, because its actions complement the actions of other organisations or actors in the field. Through this model, Wikifin aims to inspire and stimulate stakeholders in the implementation of concrete actions by sharing best practices with them. Wikifin also contributes to certain initiatives and launches certain projects, for example the Money Week in collaboration with the National Bank, Assuralia, Febelfin, the Credit and Debt Tax Observatory, SAM, les Centres de référence and BudgetInZicht; an inheritance simulator in collaboration with notary.be, and participation in conferences or seminars with the aim of explaining the importance of financial education and raising awareness among the listeners. For example, OKRA invited Wikifin to explain the financial problems facing 55-plussers. As far as your second question is concerned, it is clear that digital technologies are taking an increasingly prominent place in our daily lives. They're popping up in all the domains of our society. New digital channels are emerging, as are new online products and services, new digital applications and means of communication, including with the government. The financial sector surfs that wave by offering new online products and services. Their success continues to grow as mobile connections increase exponentially. Although these services offer a wide range of opportunities for citizens looking for digital solutions, they represent a real challenge for vulnerable populations. As the IDEALiC project, initiated by the Federal Research Programme BRAIN.be, clearly indicates, e-inclusion and the ability to offer solutions to the mechanisms of digital and social exclusion, which are linked to the digital revolutions, are among the most important societal challenges. Digitisation is therefore a social issue. The problem is all the more complex because of the different needs of vulnerable groups. The FSMA contributes as much as possible to the analysis of the challenges faced by older people as a result of digitalisation and is willing to support the thinking exercise in this regard, identify best practices and make the competence-pedagogic tools and know-how of its teams at the service of the organisations that are in contact with the target audience of your question, such as the OCMWs and the Social Integration PPS. I come to your third question. An international comparative study on financial literacy, published by the OECD and carried out in Belgium by the FSMA, shows that the Belgian has an average level of financial literacy. The PISA study, which tests the economic and financial skills of young people aged 15, even shows that Flemish young people achieve good scores in the field of financial education. However, when analysing the results in detail, the study shows that there are vulnerable groups. Not only the elderly, but also young people are more financially vulnerable. It is not because one is digitally skilled, that one is aware of the risks associated with the use of digital tools in the management of money matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u82	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. There's a lot of interesting things in there. I absolutely support the Wikifin projects and their expansion in 2019. It is also good to focus not only on young people but also on the elderly. There is also, independently of age, a group of vulnerable who are often known through the OCMWs or other organisations. I can see for myself that there is still a long way to go for them. They need to be given extra attention in the coming years so that the gap does not widen. Sometimes it is even about very simple things such as payment traffic in trade or to third parties. They will not be there. I support your suggestion that the FSMA supports the various organisations and associations working around older people. I think it's a good idea. In addition to the youth projects, I call for a much wider focus on groups of older people and vulnerable people. I think that's where the need is really high.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 28637 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 28638 by Mr Van den Bergh has been deleted. Debates of the European Parliament 28689 by Mr Van Hecke has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 28707 has been transferred to the Minister for the Budget. We have no news from Mrs Jiroflée. Her question No. In other words, 28775 is deleted, as is the case with Question No 2887/75. Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u84	With this question, Minister, I would like to clarify some of the elements of the UBO declaration for non-profit organisations and foundations. There is much to be done about this. In the meantime, I understand that the deadline has been postponed from 31 March to 30 September. That is already a good thing. With the new anti-money laundering law, our country has laid the legal foundations for the UBO register. In the register for non-profit organisations and foundations, the following persons must be regarded as UBO and indicated as such: the members of the board of directors; the persons authorised to represent the association in and out of law if such representation is provided for in the statutes; the persons responsible for the executive board, whether or not members of the board of directors, if provided for in the statutes; the founders of a foundation; the natural persons or, where such persons have not yet been designated, the category of natural persons in whose main interest the non-profit organisation or foundation was established or operating; and, finally, any other natural person exercising ultimate control by other means. According to the note with questions and answers from the administration, the categories mentioned are cumulative. This means that the reporting agents must indicate all persons considered as UBO, as well as the category to which they belong. If a person belongs to more than one category, a separate registration must be made in each category, as is stated in the note. For categories 1 to 4, there is in principle no problem. That information must already be legally available today. Only categories 5 and 6 are new. Moreover, they are rather vaguely defined. It is not so clear who or what is meant by that. It would be good to have some clarity on that. Firstly, can you clarify what category 5 is supposed to mean? If it is a category of persons, is it sufficient, in your opinion, to merely share the gift mark, without the whole category of persons being individualised? Let me give you an example: the Foundation against Cancer or an association to support a local football team. If not, why not? Secondly, is it correct that all categories are cumulative and that everyone should be indicated or, in your view, is it possible to limit the declaration to the persons on the board of directors and also to represent the non-profit organisation or foundation in legal proceedings? If not, do you think it is justified to ask anyone for this information, given the only-once principle, especially when certain persons are in different categories?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u85	I can confirm that the categories are cumulative and that a person will have to be registered in the UBO register for each category to which he belongs. As far as category 5 is concerned, as soon as natural persons are designated by name by the management body of the international non-profit organisation, they must be international or the foundation, those persons will have to be entered individually in the UBO register. If no person is identified by name, the general categories or categories of beneficiaries, as described in the Statutes, will have to be registered. The possibility to register the categories in the UBO register will be possible in the following version of the online application. A user manual specifically adapted to the encoding of the UBOs of any international non-profit organisations will be put online at the same time. At the same time, there will also be an update of the frequently asked questions, because there was some uncertainty with some elements of the FAQ.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u86	Mr. President, Minister, several SME employers received at the end of last year a notice of rectification of their personal tax return (PPI) in which the FPS Finance questioned their options plans, resulting in a significant adjustment of their tax situation. At the time, these notices of rectification were the subject of various press articles, notably in the newspaper L'Echo. In fact, the FPS Finance considered that the Stock Options Act was not complied with when the gain was automatic for their beneficiaries, i.e. that the option plans were affected by a purely potestative condition within the meaning of Article 1174 of the Civil Code, causing the plans to be null and void as a whole. Therefore, the entire taxation regime applicable to the option plans (favorable to the taxpayers concerned) could not apply in this case, hence the relief in question. However, it appears that these rectification notices were ultimately cancelled by the FPS Finances. I would like a few clarifications in this regard. So these are my questions. Minister, do you confirm the existence of these notices of rectification sent massively by the FPS Finance to executives of companies with such options plans? How many leaders were involved? For what amounts? What were the arguments used to justify these notices of rectification? Do you confirm their cancellation? If so, on what date, by whom and on what basis? What other measures have been taken by the FPS Finance with respect to these options plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u87	Mr Gilkinet, since the question refers to a press article in which a company is named, I cannot respond favourably to the question raised at the risk of breaching the provisions on professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u88	Minister, I specifically avoided naming the company in the matter. It seems to me to be of general scope in view of its relatively massive character. If, in fact, a plan of options proposed by a company contravenes the law, there is a difficulty and a potential budgetary impact. I would like to be able to exercise my role as a Member of Parliament and as a control of the government and, in this case, of the FPS Finances. I am not satisfied with your answer and, consequently, I will come back to you later on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u89	Question No 28170 by Mr Steven Vandeput is turned into a written question; it is not deleted, contrary to what I said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u90	Minister, a press release from the government informed us on 31 August of a draft bill just mentioned by the President, which was part of a recommendation of the Panama Papers Special Committee: "In order to combat tax fraud more effectively, it is necessary to harmonize collection procedures in order to ensure greater efficiency in this area." In the meantime, your predecessor has resigned, you have replaced him and we are now in business. What about this text? When did the Council of State deliver a notice on the matter? Did the nature of the opinion of the Council of State require far-reaching changes to the text? Have they been brought in? Is a text available for parliamentary treatment, even if at worst, through a bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u91	Indeed, a preliminary draft law introducing the Code on the amicable and forced collection of tax and non-tax claims was submitted to the Council of State, which delivered its opinion (Opinion 64.204/3) on 26 November 2018. This opinion can be described as favourable and few changes will therefore be necessary. The observations made by the Council of State are being carefully analysed and will be followed whenever appropriate. Unfollowed observations will, of course, be justified. It is planned to resubmit, as soon as possible, the draft law introducing the Code of amicable and forced collection of tax and non-tax claims to the Council of Ministers at second reading, with a view to its tabling in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u92	Minister, thank you for that clarification. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we still have six or seven weeks to vote on this text first in committee and then in plenary. For once, a member of the opposition, subject to the content of the text, encourages you to move forward quickly on a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1034x.u93	I thank the Minister. We've done a lot of useful work.
