ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Ladies and gentlemen, on January 17th, Tenerife Achille Diegenand, honorary member of the Chamber, died. He was 82. After obtaining the diploma of PhD in physical education and graduate in physiotherapy at the University of Leuven where he would later become a lecturer, Achille Diegenant began his career as a gym teacher and independent physiotherapist. During the same period he entered the CVP and became mayor of Itterbeek in March 1971. Shortly thereafter, in November 1971, Achille Diegenant was also elected MP for the CVP. As he was attached to his region, he paid a great deal of attention to the economic, social and cultural development of the Pajottenland. As a convinced Fleming, Achille Diegenant was also very active in the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution. He was particularly concerned with the Dutch speakers in Brussels and in the Brussels Rand, and worked for the division of the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde. But Achilles Diegenant will be remembered in the first place for his inexhaustible commitment to public health, the environment and, above all, sport. In his search for a full statute for professional athletes, he laid the foundations of the 1978 law on the employment contract for paid sportsmen and women. After serving sixteen years in this House, he completed his national political career as a provincial senator from December 1987 to April 1995. It was at the end of this term, on 6 April 1995, that the Diegenant-Mahoux law was passed, which bears his name. This was the culmination of a long-standing commitment to genuine recognition and regulation of physiotherapy training and the physiotherapist profession. After his withdrawal from national politics, Achille Diegenant remained a communal councillor for a few years in Dilbeek and, until his last days, he became involved in the local CD&V. As an ardent athlete, he was chairman of many local sports associations, as well as of national and international sports federations, which he had often co-founded himself. But above all, in the fall of his life, he liked to make time for his wife, his six children and his seventeen grandchildren, who he assisted with advice and deed on the edge of the sports field and wherever he could. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with Achille Diegenant we are losing a passionate politician who enjoyed general respect and sympathy in our Assembly. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed our sincere condolences to his wife Marth and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, together with you, the government pays tribute to our former colleague, Mr Achille Diegenant. Achilles Diegenant was a very passionate and dedicated politician. As a sports enthusiast, his first passion, Achille Diegenant fought throughout his political career for the recognition and status of both athletes and physiotherapists, the profession he had exercised himself before entering politics. He was very involved at local level and his colleagues greatly appreciated him for his determination, professionalism and kindness. A leading figure of the CD&V in Dilbeek's section, he was also mayor of Itterbeek. He also sat as a group leader on the municipal council of Dilbeek. Achille Diegenant was also a loving family man, who liked to spend time with his seventeen grandchildren. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. We wish them much courage in this difficult ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we observe a few moments of silence in memory of our late colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are wrong! You are wrong in saying that the problem your government is facing with the climate would be poor communication about your actions. Your problem is not communication but lack of ambition, a problem of coherence and lack of concrete action. You must and we must all, in this House, be aware of what is happening, week after week, whether it rains or sells: tens of thousands of Belgians, especially young people, now present in our stands, are on the street to tell you both their concern for the future and their desire to act to preserve this planet and to be able to benefit from a future like that experienced by previous generations. The least we can say is that your answers, so far, have not met expectations. The balance sheet will not be changed; however, there are 10 weeks left to act. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: about the concrete commitments you have made to representatives of the Climate Coalition; about the enhancement of the ambitions of the National Energy-Climate Plan, as set out in the resolution we adopted at the end of December; about the laws necessary for the exit of nuclear power and the creation of a framework for the development of renewable energy; about a climate law that would set out a path and means to meet this extraordinary challenge; about our proposals to reduce the number of cars on the roads, to better support public transport, to encourage banks to divest fossil sectors. Prime Minister, change cannot wait any longer. You must and we must live up to the climate of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u6	Prime Minister, the climate lives with a lot of people. A number of people are genuinely concerned. It is therefore an important issue, and things must be done to do so. I do not think it is a coincidence that the very first interparliamentary resolution we adopted in this House was about climate. As chairman of the committee, I was very keen to get it implemented and approved. There were questions and recommendations, but of course there must also be measures: motivated, quantified measures that are effectively on the table. Concrete measures. We passed a law here last summer confirming a commitment from 2015. We have committed ourselves not only to confirming our existing policies, but also to taking new measures. A whole package of measures, because we want to increase our federal climate effort by almost 50%. The question, of course, is: how are we doing this now? I asked your Minister this question last year, but unfortunately I did not receive an answer. In the meantime, you have received the climate organisations. I think it is important that this should happen and that we should be able to hear more about it. In concrete terms, I have the following questions, Prime Minister. Firstly, there would be a list of new measures. What new measures should we take to have this effect by 2020? Explain it to us. We would like to know the state of play. Secondly, I believe that we can learn a great deal from the discussion with the climate organisations. So we would like to hear from you a report on what has been said and what you can report so that Parliament can get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u7	Prime Minister, for the fourth Thursday in a row, young people in Brussels are arguing for a better climate policy. Their commitment and their fighting skills are truly heartwarming. Our group has therefore been deeply disturbed by the criticism that has been made of these young people. On the one hand, it was said that they had to think about what they could do themselves, and on the other hand, it was said that they only came to Brussels to skip school and that if such a climate march was organized on weekends, which would attract much less people. Prime Minister, this weekend we saw 75 000 people arguing. Proximus says even more. Mr De Roover, you think this is ridiculous, but there are 75 000 people who have argued for another, a better, climate policy. Mr Prime Minister, with the exception of some, everyone in the hemisphere may agree that we cannot ignore this call. Young or old, everyone says something has to happen for the climate. Last week, during a speech for diplomats, you stated that the government is already doing a great deal for the climate, but that it is being poorly communicated. We have already done a lot, but perhaps too little explained, you said. Prime Minister, I regret that statement, especially as you say to the thousands of demonstrators that they did not really understand. You've already done a lot and you'd be well on your way. Prime Minister, today 3 500 scientists say that we are not on the right track at all and that much remains to be done. The Climate Action Network has set up a ranking with the countries that are very good, good or reasonably well on their way. In addition, there are countries covered by the qualification moderate, poor or very poor. Our country is placed in the "poor" category. I will not deny that much has already happened, Prime Minister, but people are asking for more. My first question is therefore what will happen in the short time that you have left. It is clear that we need to add a big tooth. You've met the organizers of the march. What did you promise them? What will happen in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u8	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a personal statement. I was named as if I would ridicule young people who show commitment. I assume Mrs Temmerman has a little less experience in education than myself. I've been teaching students at the TSO for 30 years. In those 30 years I have been a particularly strong supporter of young people's social commitment, let that be clear, Mrs Temmerman. I'm not gonna take your reproach. At the same time, Mrs Temmerman, I know what the disastrous consequences of truancy are. It may be that you distance yourself completely from that, but it is my profession as a teacher who revolts there. That is why I say that this aspect must be taken into account. Well, that's different than making fun of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u9	Mr President, I will be very brief. I am not blaming Mr De Roover for not having contact with young people. Mr De Roover, you have so much experience in education and I would not have that experience. I can tell you that I have no experience with education, but I do have a lot of experience with the training of young people who have fallen off the school boat, a lot of experience and probably much more than you. These young people today also say that climate policy needs to change. Before you accuse others that they would not be aware, you should first inform yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not argue and enter into discussions like the one that has just taken place. One thing is certain, today, for the fourth time, a group of young people manifesting themselves in favour of climate change and asking the policy to intervene more strongly and proactively in favour of stronger measures. Very sincerely, all we can say about this is that they are right. This does not mean, however, that nothing has been done. It is a message that must also be conveyed to our youth. We unanimously voted for a resolution whose ambitions have been revised upwards following the debate at COP24, the publication of the IPCC report and the first citizen's event that brought together 75,000 people, an event in which I participated. It must also be said that five offshore wind farms are installed in the North Sea and that three more wind farms will be operational by 2020. The package will provide energy to 50% of Belgian households. By 2030, offshore wind capacity will provide the energy equivalent of four nuclear power plants. This is also an important step forward. In addition, I recall the agreement of the burden sharing which took years to complete. This burden sharing between the Regions is now acquired. Nor should we forget that we are the second country to have issued green bonds for EUR 41⁄2 billion. They will help the energy transition in all areas. Prime Minister, you have said this week that you want to act more, faster and stronger. To this end, you have met with representatives of the Climate Coalition, which brings together about 70 environmental organizations. What follow-up will be given to this meeting? Has it already made it possible to identify work paths?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u11	Prime Minister, climate is at the top of the agenda. That is a good thing. Citizens, businesses, politics, we all know for a long time that the world is warming up and that we face a huge challenge. This has been the case in recent years. There has been massive investment in renewable energy and focused on energy-saving measures and sustainability. So saying nothing happens is not right. However, it is not enough. We need to show more ambition to achieve our goals. Politics must play a leading role in this. However, we will not be able to do so alone. We're gonna have to work together. We're gonna have to take everybody on a tow. Businesses still need to step up and see the opportunities that energy conversion and sustainability offer. Climate scientists and our universities are thinking about tomorrow's solutions and systems. We need to encourage citizens to invest in energy-efficient homes, sustainable mobility choices and solar panels. We need to convince politicians to engage in cross-party engagements. We have to be ambitious and we believe we can, but then we have to have everyone with us. We fit for a climate policy that doesn't look back at people who are having a harder time. We are looking forward to a climate policy that only focuses on banning, on increasing and increasing taxes. We need a positive climate policy with measures that are feasible and affordable and have a real impact. There must be a business model in which businesses and citizens can make investments that are good for the climate and for themselves. My party has already come up with some good proposals, think of the greening of the company car fleet. We are also going for a lower VAT rate for energy-efficient investments, including for demolition and reconstruction. Colleagues, the fingering and the 'yes, but mentality' can stop now. Stop whining, we know what needs to be done. As a country, we have everything we need to meet this challenge. We reach out to other parties to speed this up. Prime Minister, what initiatives will you take so that our country can take further steps forward in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u12	Prime Minister, today is Poem Day. I would like to give you the introductory words of a poem by Remco Campert: 'Resistance does not begin with big words but with small deeds'. Actions, such as those of Greta Thunberg, Kyra and Anuna, which have resulted in today's Ladeuzeplein, which for the fourth week in a row more than 10 000 young people came to Brussels, 12 500 today, that 15 000 young people have met in Liège, actions that have resulted in you having received a letter from more than 3 300 scientists from the Scientists4Climate, that from those young people a collaboration has been initiated with the Flemish Building Master and experts, and that you have finally received the Climate Coalition. After that reception, the question is what will happen. I am very pleased that you have heard the resistance, in the form of the meeting of many hopeful people. I am very pleased that you are reaching out to the previous government and the current resignation government to work together, because that is also the question that we have been asking for some time. I'm very glad you told them you wanted to do something about it. The question is what. It will take more than communication. If you believe that ambition, then you are moving from taxes on labour to taxes on pollution, then you are working on the eco-taxality for which the Green Party has been a party for so long, then you are going to invest much more in renewable energy and then stop saving on public transport. Then you will finally invest in it so that people can get to work immediately, no matter where in the country they leave. If you answer the question of receiving people, that also means the promise of an answer with measures. If you respond to that question, you will find in us a partner to oppose defeatism, cynicism and talking down sincere commitments from people who have already made every difference in their daily lives, while the Flemish and federal governments abandoned them. If you support that resistance with concrete measures, the Green Party will be the most loyal partner for you. The first question is, of course, what are you going to do about the cynicism of some of us here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u13	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I look at the various climate marches that have already taken place: 3 000, 12 000 and 32 000 schoolchildren. Sunday 70 000 people on the street, including many families. Today, only 3 500 scientists join the young people and another 25 000 students are on the streets in Liège and Brussels. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that every generation is awake from the climate. All of them are arguing for one thing: doing more for the climate. So many people, so many young people who are inspired by a theme. We must not lose this momentum. It is up to us as politicians to listen, reach out to them and propose actions together. However, we must also be honest in this debate. We will all have to make efforts, ladies and gentlemen. We will all have to change our behavior. We're gonna have to move. We're gonna have to move in. We're gonna have to work differently. This won't always be easy. We must always keep one thought in mind: we are doing it for our children and grandchildren. The debate must also move from hollow slogans to well-defined and well-founded proposals. We must also dare to say that some measures will cost money. We don't just do this for cash. No, we're doing this to get a change in our behavior, to discourage polluting behavior. We must also dare to bring reasonableness to the debate. We cannot solve climate change alone. Climate problems do not just stop at our borders. It is preferable to have an international approach. We must also dare to bring reasonableness into the debate, in the sense that we take everyone with us. There are people who want to make an effort, but they can't do this. We absolutely do not want to leave it behind. Prime Minister, a lot has already happened. We should also be able to endorse this and emphasise it even more. Both federal, regional and local efforts have already been made. However, if we really want to take a leap in our climate policy, then citizens, politics and civil society must join forces. We must have the courage to be accompanied and inspired by the scientists. Therefore, from CD&V, we are in favour of creating a climate pact that sets very clear targets for every parliament and every sector, and this by the end of 2019. Prime Minister, we're running out of time. Yesterday you took a good initiative by receiving the members of the Climate Coalition. I would have liked to have heard the following. What concrete actions will you take in the short term to respond to the thousands of people on the streets?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, who will pay for saving our planet? That is the political question we are being asked today. Who will pay for the necessary ecological transition of our planet? I will be very clear: for a party like the PTB, there is no question that workers, young people, social beneficiaries or the middle class are paying for this necessary ecological transition. That is a very important question. You are obliged to put this question on the agenda under the pressure of the struggle. Let me remind you that the government's plans didn't say much about the environment. In your government statement, there wasn't much about ecology. In your famous investment pact of 150 billion euros, we don't talk much about ecology. But now there are tens of thousands of young people on the streets! You haven't seen this youth struggle come and it scares you! Ecology was not a priority, but the pressure from young people forces you to make it a priority. The question is, who's gonna pay for that? There's no way the common man's gonna pay for that. A study in France clearly shows that what Macron has done in France pollutes the richest 40 times more than the poorest. A French study clearly shows that the rich pollute forty times as much as the poorest. The carbon tax that Mr. Macron introduced costs households with the lowest incomes four times more. All this taxation will mainly affect the weakest. A resolution, voted by all parties – except ours – says in point 24: "We will have to work at European level to establish a carbon contribution". The real debate is whether to charge people. Mr Prime Minister, since all these reports show that all carbon taxation will essentially affect the lowest income in our society, do you not find it time to make a commitment that we will not introduce a carbon tax in Belgium and that it is time to charge the multinationals? I would remind you that 300 multinationals in Belgium are responsible for 40% of CO2 emissions. It's up to them to pay and not to the little people!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u15	A few weeks ago, Prime Minister, I was able to read a banner branded by the demonstrators and whose slogan had particularly appealed to me: "End of the world, end of months: same culprits, same fight!" Indeed, global warming and rising inequalities stem from common causes. I am, of course, thinking about deregulation, speculation, tax fraud, the superpower of multinationals, or the accumulation of wealth in the hands of a few - the very ones who go on a private jet to Davos, and whose list is long and well known. On all these major issues, you are almost never heard, Prime Minister. You prefer to spend your time defending Mrs Marghem's excellent record. You complain that people do not understand how effective your government is in the fight for climate change. I think you're making a mistake. Our citizens are, on the contrary, very lucid about the action of your government. And the figures show that, since 2014, greenhouse gas emissions have not only stopped decreasing, but - worse yet! - they're on the rise. There's no need to deny it. The only answer the protesters expect is that you take concrete initiatives to reduce the number of cars on our roads, commit budgets for improved public transport, isolate buildings or ban the most polluting behaviour. The climate protesters no longer demand publicity effects; they want tangible actions. Four months before the elections, Prime Minister, what are you proposing to the tens of thousands of students who are walking on our streets today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the first requirement of this Parliament and of the government with regard to the 70,000 or 75,000 young people who worked a few days ago in favour of the climate is the dignity of the debate based on arguments and not this disgusting demagogy that impoverishes everyone, Mr Hedebouw. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to stick to the facts. First of all, I persist and I sign: indeed, work has been carried out not only by this government, but also by the previous ones and the Regions, in an attempt to make progress. The message I have given must be interpreted as a whole and not in part to manipulate the information. Yes, we need to explain what is being done and we need to do more. In this House, during the months of November and December, we had debates. There were not many people in the evening to participate and talk about extremely concrete arguments and proposals! Those who are doing the lesson today were not present when, in November and December, we were in the forum to discuss the commitments on the subject. What decisions have been made? A first important point is the Burden Sharing, which was a failure of the past that has been resolved. That was a very important and concrete point. A second important point is that there is almost EUR 5 billion for green investment. We are the second European country to opt for green bonds. That too is a very concrete measure. The third point relates to regulations on biofuels, which are a step forward, although these regulatory and legal arrangements on these issues are likely to need further improvement. The fourth point is the exit from nuclear power. The discussions were extremely difficult. Not everyone showed the same enthusiasm. But the law that provides for the release of nuclear power in 2025 was passed. She wasn't called into question. However, we must indeed work to ensure that it can be achieved by validating, in particular, the capacity compensation mechanism as quickly as possible. That is our intention. The Federal Parliament gave a very clear signal in December with a resolution that affirms an even stronger ambition. The minority government defended this view, as I committed myself to it on the occasion of the January Consultation Committee, and decided to validate the National Energy-Climate Plan, which includes concrete and quantified measures that have been communicated to Europe. It also decided to get to work immediately to go further by identifying and quantifying the measures that can be taken to make progress in this area. These are some examples, in addition to offshore wind turbines, which represent a step forward for the country as a whole. But other examples could still be given. What is important to me for the future? I had an important conversation with representatives of the coalition for the climate. In my opinion, this was an intense, useful and necessary discussion, a very constructive and positive discussion. I have heard, around the table, with these seven young representatives, much more sense of reality and nuance than a number of comments made, a few moments ago here. What is their wish? It is to be able to consider some first proposals that have been submitted to me but, from the very admission of the Climate Coalition, which are not yet sufficiently precise in the modalities. I have made a commitment to propose to the Council of Ministers that, with the assistance of independent bodies such as the Planning Office, the various operational proposals be submitted promptly. Proclaiming slogans is important, but we need to go further and move on to act II towards a Green Deal in Belgium and Europe, which requires extremely concrete measures. For example, I am told that oil boilers should be removed. Of course, this is very effective and useful for the climate, but according to the statistics, this situation concerns a third or a quarter of our citizens. How can this measure be implemented, in a concrete and operational way, to avoid the social impact on the lowest incomes or on the middle classes who suffer in terms of purchasing power? The issue of funding is an essential one. Some people tell me to make a law and create a climate bank. It is not a law or a climate bank that will bring down the money from the sky to finance the energy transition! It is therefore necessary to see in what operational way, for each of the measures, the social and funding implications can be identified. So we are very clear, the minority government has the very strong ambition to be efficient and useful in the period between today and the next elections. We have sent an important signal with the Investment Pact. According to Mr Hedebouw, mobility and energy have nothing to do with the climate. He's a dreamer. Mobility and energy are directly linked to the climate. We will therefore indeed continue this work. I am pleased that the Climate Coalition, which I met this morning, gave rather positive signals at the end of the interview and wished to follow up on my proposal which we can see again in February. This will give them the opportunity to work even more precisely on concrete measures. I really hope that in this House we will show the same dignity as the 75,000 young people who have mobilized and who expect us to be more responsible than a few simplistic ones I have heard here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u17	Prime Minister, we will never be large enough to meet this extraordinary challenge. And I have to see - in any case in speeches, even if there are nuances - an evolution in the position of each other. At the end of December, we voted for a resolution that raises our level of ambition with a "climate" majority in this Parliament. What we want as ecologists is for this "climate" majority to be able to express themselves positively in relation to other projects or proposals by mid-April. In this context, we will be your partner or even at the forefront of the fight with concrete proposals. Prime Minister, that will not prevent us from remaining critical. I mentioned a lack of ambition. It has been seen throughout the legislature - and things are changing. I mentioned a lack of consistency. There are cynics and condescendents, including in your parties, towards the movement that is developing. When you support company cars and when you definance the SNCB, there is a lack of consistency. I'm sorry. In the future, I hope to see more concrete actions because to disappoint those who are on the street, simply to try to win a future, would be the most serious of the mistakes we could make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u18	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I am glad that you are talking about concrete, realistic measures. As far as our group is concerned, they must also be quantified so that we can move forward. You know that we attach a great deal of importance to this. However, I have heard little concrete, realistic and quantified measures which you will take or which you recommend to Parliament to take. The examples you give are almost all existing measures. You referred to the agreement on Burden Sharing. This is the list of all existing measures, including biofuels and offshore. Unfortunately, I have not heard any new measures from you. I will leave you the copy so that you can tell me next time what new measures have been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think this Parliament can sit still. We must put our special climate committee to work! I hear from everyone that there are proposals to get to work effectively, to propose things that save CO2. I propose that we convene this committee so that each party can put its proposals on the table, calculations can be made and measures can be taken. We must draw this towards us as a Parliament. That is my answer to the other Members. Join this story, and we can work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u19	Prime Minister, I am actually pleased with your answer. It's like a yoke has been taken from your shoulders. You have shown some ambition, but we just need to see what this becomes concrete. I would ask you to discuss the concrete proposals effectively here in Parliament. There is now a minority government and I think you should seek broad support, so discuss this here in Parliament. It charms me very much that you will finally add a social test to that. The N-VA is constantly talking about calculation, but at least as important is the social test. Who will suffer most when we decide today that diesel cars are no longer allowed to drive? Those who have a diesel car for a long time and don't have the money to buy an electric car. We are therefore counting on a social test to be carried out. Prime Minister, you will certainly find a partner in us for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u20	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, essentially for your concrete, realistic and pragmatic approach. Finally, what was the purpose of the question? Meet students' expectations. We can respond to the students who demonstrate in the streets that we are attentive to the future of our planet, that we want to move and be ambitious in our climate policy. I would also like to say that, of course, things are changing! I have heard some of my colleagues contradict each other: Mr Gilkinet, you question the Prime Minister by accusing him of doing nothing, and then, in your reply, you confirm having voted with the government for a resolution whose ambitions are rising! Yes, things are changing! I am delighted to see that our PTB friends are finally interested in the climate. This is an extremely important fact. Mr Hedebouw, I hope that you will be a little more constructive than what you said today, that you will not remain in criticism. Admit that we are advancing in the interest of our planet, while studying the socio-economic impact of our advances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply and for the ambition shown. Indeed, more ambition is needed, and I want to sign it right away. In 2050 zero emission. Maybe we should pass that on. The young people are sitting here listening, the companies are eager and the scientists are angry when they hear us. That is why I want to work together on what we can offer them over the coming years, over opposition and majority. I'll take the outstretched hand with pleasure. We have to deal with it together, shoulder to shoulder. Not what separates us, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, but what binds us: the fight for a better climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would also like to talk about figures. Not that of N-VA, because we have seen what has led to Minister Van Overtveldt's figures: a billion-dollar gap in the budget. There's a lot of gaps in N-VA's grade work. I would like to talk about the figures for young people, who come to Brussels week after week and who have to pay more for one train ticket here than for a plane ticket to Carcassonne. That is what this is about, the shift in taxation in our country and in Europe. Let me give you an example that makes this clear. If your roof leaks, Mr Verherstraeten, you will not wait until the interior is soaked and your furniture rots, but then you will restore that roof. We have the same acute problem today with the climate problem. N-VA wants to wait until the entire interior is destroyed. I am pleased to see that the Prime Minister, along with the other parties of the previous majority, finally wants to make that change real, says yes to investing because doing nothing costs more, says yes to correcting people with a small wallet or people without alternative, and says yes to that shift. Now it will be important not only to support our climate resolution, for which thanks, for which the previous majority, with the exception of N-VA, really did, and for which we needed courage, but also to take the necessary decisions, to destroy cash for car, to adopt ambitious targets the next time you go to a climate summit rather than stand on the brakes in the regions, what happened in Katowice in the field of renewable energy, and not to get the trophy for fossil at the next climate summit, but the trophy for most ambitious country. Then the young people on the street will see that you have understood the message. That is why I repeat what I said earlier. For this we will be your partner, with figures that are right for people in our society, no matter how they work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. A lot has happened already. We really need to seize the momentum in order to be able to take further steps. The young people on the streets and the young people here in Parliament expect answers from us and actions. We therefore fully support the short-term actions which you have listed. However, we need to do more. We need to focus on 2050 as well. We must prepare ourselves now. We must not wait any longer. It is precisely for this reason that we are in favour of a climate pact, a cooperation agreement between Flanders, Brussels, Wallonia and the federal government, setting out a path towards a climate-neutral country. We want to speed up this pact. It should be ready by the end of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have no problem with the committee being called together as soon as possible. Let's put all the proposals on the table. I'm really looking forward to these proposals. I have only heard hollow slogans from some parties, but no concrete proposal, let alone a quantified proposal. So put everything on the table so that we can check whether the proposals are reasonable, affordable, feasible and social. We would also like to reach out to the scientists. Let them inspire us. We hope that we can urge them to give advice by the end of June 2019 so that we can get to work effectively. After all, we are convinced that a sound climate policy can only be achieved by working together. So let's work on it together. There is absolutely no time to lose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u24	Prime Minister, what a disappointing answer! It's not up to the emergency at all! We have twelve years ahead to reduce our CO2 emissions by 60%. What are the measurements on the table? We, the PTB, have come with many measures. You have to read them at the MR. We had a proposal for the communal campaign: free public transport. This is a concrete measure, which responds to the urgency. I hear today that the CDH and the PS are joining us on this. That's good news! So wait! It's amazing! We can't even talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u25	It's not right. Écoutons M. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u26	Today, SNCB decided to increase the price of the Rail Pass from 77 to 83 euros. That's 8 percent more. Are those the right measures you want to take? The PVDA has proposed another measure. We need clear standards. We need binding standards against multinationals. This carbon market you've set up is of no use at all, except for doing business, still business, always business. We sell rights to pollute. Can you imagine what we're doing? They even manage to earn money from CO2 quotas. Binding standards are needed! Another step has to be taken: to create a climate bank, in which we will invest EUR 5 billion. Where are we going to get them? I'll tell you, at the richest. There's money in this country! Yes, multinationals have to pay! This brings me to the last important step, namely the hydrogen industry. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, one of the major problems we are facing is energy storage. If we decided to plan our economy, we could invest in this industry. This is an important aspect. But if we continue to take small measures, as it has now been the case for ten or fifteen years, we are going to "plant". There are still 400 gigatons of CO2 up to 2030, knowing that 40 tons are consumed per year worldwide. So we have ten years left. The measures proposed today lead us straight into the wall. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen! That is why radical measures, such as those proposed by the PTB, are needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. It seems to me that the students will have to demonstrate many more Thursdays, if you do not have any new measures to propose to them. We cannot continue with the same policies that are contrary or in any case insufficient, given the urgency of climate change and the risk that inequality will worsen further. The PS proposes that Parliament and the government join forces and work together to take immediate action in favour of the planet, starting with an end to the austerity policy that attacks the rail. There is a need to reinvest in public transport and to increase the SNCB budget immediately. You can also act to reduce the number of company cars by obliging employers to systematically offer an alternative to this type of vehicle. Our group has proposed to amend the mobility budget bill to that effect, but your government has rejected our proposal. Finally, you can launch an investment plan to isolate public buildings and stop wasting a lot of energy. Prime Minister, stop stumbling behind Mrs Marghem's very meagre record and act with inventiveness and creativity, as the young people ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u28	Before closing the incident, I would like to point out that if there are colleagues who are thinking of introducing a question every Friday, when there is a demonstration on Thursday, it would be an abuse of the system. That's a little abuse of the system. I'm not saying it's the case this week. If there are any Members who would like to do so systematically, we will not allow it. You will understand that very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, "Jobs, jobs, jobs!", to quote you. Today, more than 4,300 jobs are at risk. This month of January 2019 is the blackest month for employment in Belgium since 2012. The worst month of January for employment since the closure of Ford Genk. The future of more than 4,300 workers and their families is now suspended from a collective dismissal decision. And you say, "Jobs, jobs, jobs!" You couldn't say "Stop, stop, stop" to the succession of collective redundancies. Since 2015, in four years, nearly 30,000 workers have been the subject of collective redundancies. What a record, Mr. Michel! We could talk about lower growth in Belgium than in the rest of Europe or about our employment rate, which is still well below the European average. Your mantra "Jobs, jobs, jobs!" was mainly used to hide the attacks on purchasing power and the fierce gifts you offer to the bosses. In Davos - even there - voices were raised to denounce the march of today's economic world, to demand that fair taxes be paid, that tax evasion be fought, that wealth be redistributed, that jobs worthy of this name be called taxing big fortunes. Ten years ago, already in Davos, the World Economic Forum was trying to answer the question: "What must industry do to prevent a strong social regression?" Prime Minister, what have you done for four years to combat collective redundancies? What did you say to these business leaders who were leasing workers to guarantee a huge dividend?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone can therefore see how you decide to run with a small bike behind the PTB, behind its outrages, behind its caricatures. It's spectacular! This Government, through the measures that have been taken, has created an additional 220,000 jobs. The tax shift is an additional 13th and even 14th month for people with low wages. The lowest pensions have never been increased in a legislature as much as they were under that government. I will not receive lessons from your political formation! Mr President, I was indeed with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Economy, with the King also a few days ago in Davos. I take this presence to defend the interests of our citizens, especially those who have lower incomes, those who do not have jobs today and want to find one. We have made significant progress in investment: more than 7%. There has never been so many self-employed people, SMEs, people who have created their own jobs. Six percent more. Whenever there is an economic difficulty, it is obviously a tragedy for families who are in anguish. That is why, each time, we are barricades with the Minister of Employment to be in contact with companies, with representatives of trade unions, to ensure that alternatives can be developed, which has often been the case. This has been the case with ING, for example, and it will have to be the case with Proximus, too, to ensure that jobs that are in short supply today can be filled. Indeed, where there are unemployed people, they must be directed towards training that can lead to employment. Ineos, Member of the European Parliament, represents three billion euros in Belgium. Belgium is once again on the investor map. Alibaba is very concrete; this large company with huge potential development has identified some sites in the world for its future development. Belgium, especially Liège, has been identified. Lufthansa, SN Airlines, this decision you made in the past, has materialized. We have ensured strategic interests for the country and for employment. The number of jobs is growing, there are more airlines. It's fundamental. At Volvo, we fought for jobs. Audi Forest produces the electric vehicle. In Charleroi, after Caterpillar's terrible tragedy, companies boost the capacity of electric batteries. There are those who lament and lie, and then those who work for employment and our fellow citizens!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u31	Prime Minister, what arrogance and lack of a concrete response! It's all right to hear you. You're totally disconnected from reality! How dare you make it look that it's all right when more than 4,300 workers are threatened with dismissal just over a month, when over the last three years, the burn-out rate among workers has risen from 10 to 17% and when one in two people think that their purchasing power has declined in 2018? How dare you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have a royal family on a mission. We have a green king who would very much like to become a climate cockroacher. At least he admitted that in a speech, whether or not you approved it, and we also have a prince who is a green entrepreneur. I won't knock anyone off the crown today, but I do have a lot of questions about that princely letter. A judgment awarded the Prince's non-profit association compensation of EUR 50 million, which is final. Now, in his letter, the prince states that the funds in the currently frozen Libyan funds can be used or released for unpaid invoices, but not for the payment of compensation, which was nevertheless established by judgment. Prime Minister, if that is true, you have a generous problem. In a second point, the prince states that the diplomatic services helped Belgian companies collect their Libyan claims. In November 2018, your colleague Didier Reynders here in the Chamber gave an answer in his characteristic style, simultaneously blowing hot and cold; that's what we're used to. Minister Reynders confirmed here that he helped a number of companies, but that list did not say that the arms company FN Herstal would also be helped. Prime Minister, is that correct? Is it also true that the prince should not expect help for his non-profit? In that case, you also have a problem. Prime Minister, I assume that you will argue your answer with the separation of powers, but that argument obviously does not apply in this case. After all, the judiciary has already ruled. It is indeed the government that keeps the Libyan funds frozen. The way in which this is done is another question, why there should be a little more transparency. Prime Minister, those questions were about the content, but I also have a formal question. The prince will send you a letter and a copy, which will certainly make its text public. He used stationery with the letterhead of the Brussels Palace and signed with Laurent van België. I would have signed as the agent of the liquidator, if I wanted to get results. Prime Minister, does the prince violate the rules of conduct of 2013 with these acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not the lawyer of Prince Laurent. He has excellent ones and doesn't need me. But your exchanges require a few comments. On form, it is surprising to read the lesson that no one would be above the law. On the part of a government pointed to by the United Nations Security Council for violating one of its resolutions, it is surprising. In fact, the case was brought before the Belgian courts to clarify what, according to the Sanctions Committee of the Security Council, constitutes an offence on the part of Belgium with regard to the payment of dividends and income from frozen Libyan funds. As for the substance, what does Prince Laurent ask for? He said that, although he denied it at first, your Foreign Minister intervened for six companies - two of them armament companies - but that, on the other hand, your government refuses to take into account the request of an ASBL invested in reforestation. That is the question that is being asked. Will the government intervene with the Libyan authorities to ensure that these compensations due to Prince Laurent - the Belgian justice - are paid to him? You say that your legal services and the European Commission confirm that you cannot intervene. I would have liked to have had that legal opinion because, in this case, no opinion has been given on this issue so far and it would therefore be the first. But it is not Belgian justice that must be questioned. She gave her opinion. Nor is it the European Commission, but rather the United Nations Sanctions Committee. Your question should be addressed to him. Why isn't she?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the press has in fact published a letter addressed to the government by Prince Laurent a few days ago. I can give you information on the basis of what I have at my disposal. Several parliamentarians have been closely involved in the work of a committee that has provided an opportunity to exchange views. As is sometimes the case in Parliament, at the end of the debate, not all parliamentarians shared the same interpretation. Mr Dallemagne, your interpretation is not shared by all the members of the House who were present during these debates in committee. There's a court decision. That is a first important point. There is, however, a discussion about the implementation of that judicial decision. The relevant administrations, Foreign Affairs and Finance, have expressed their legal position. Prince Laurent and his advisers had the opportunity to discuss this and to get more information on the legal position of the administrations concerned. Mr Dallemagne, I wonder: if the government had been against the legal opinions expressed by the administration on this subject, I would be very curious to see what the nature of the debate and the reactions would have been. That's a point I want to mention. Indeed, I have considered - and I have not changed my mind - that the separation of powers applies perfectly and that the law is exactly the same for everyone. It is not the Prime Minister, nor the government, who decides on individual cases of law enforcement. The rule of law allows the various levers to be used to challenge decisions, including in the context of the enforcement of a decision. As far as the Commission is concerned, once again I am cautious. I can only speak on the basis of the information available to me. I understand that there have been contacts, probably even with Prince Laurent's advisers. It seems that these have confirmed the interpretations of the Belgian administration on the subject. That is my knowledge of the situation. The government will of course always be available to cooperate fully with Parliament to continue discussions and exchanges on such matters. Moreover, once judicial proceedings are under way, the separation of powers must be taken into account by both the government and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u35	Mr Prime Minister, all I can say is that you say that whatever advice you would have given or whatever advice we would have asked for, it would be a problem and that Prince Laurent would come back to it, to put it this way. However, we must be very clear, Prime Minister. We are currently in a very ambiguous situation, and the legislator itself has ensured this by the 2013 law, which is not clear at all. We have said that Prince Laurent is getting money to do literally nothing. It is quite clear in that law that it is forbidden to obtain taxable income from professional activities. Ja, wat doet prins Laurent dan, à la belge? He seeks a solution and works through non-profit organisations, which is not prohibited, but the problem is that people get into trouble all the time. Everyone knows that Prince Laurent will never take the throne and that he does not need EUR 320 000 a year to wait for something that will never come. That's like waiting for Godot. It is quite clear: let us abolish it. Put the crown on your work, Prime Minister: approve our proposal and abolish it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u36	Prime Minister, I think there is a lot of confusion. The question is not that of the separation of powers. Justice has given its opinion. Judge Claise tried to seize the funds. He failed to do so because Euroclear has a status of its own. Therefore, these funds are not blocked or seized. It is perfectly possible to question the United Nations Sanctions Committee. However, you have not answered this question. The United Nations Sanctions Committee should be approached. The Belgian courts delivered their opinion and judgment. There is no confusion of powers. Steps have simply been taken in favour of companies and not in favour of a BLSO. It's a fact. Fortunately, there has also been this initiative of Prince Laurent, who has made it possible to reveal this whole matter and I would not like it to be punished today for having made it possible to shed light on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u37	Prime Minister, on May 17, 2018, a tragic event occurred. This is the death of little Mawda, caused by a police fire during a chase. On 31 May, at the same forum, in response to various parliamentary questions, you replied: "It is only when we are fully informed about all the elements of the file - which I do not yet have at this stage - that it will be possible for the Secretary of State to take a decision. He's the one who'll take her. We will ensure that there is consultation within the government on this sensitive issue." Today, thanks to the report of Committee P, you are in possession of all the information to decide on the situation of this family. The P Committee concluded that the firing of vehicles during a prosecution is not advisable, as it does not comply with the principles of timeliness, proportionality and subsidiarity. Therefore, the use of firearms raises questions. In addition, it has clear reservations about the use of firearms during a prosecution. It therefore appears that the operation did not proceed properly. On the other hand, Committee P makes several recommendations in terms of training and information for police officers authorized to intervene in such operations. Prime Minister, can you tell me if the consultation you announced on May 31 has taken place within the government? You have all the elements that are necessary for your organization. What measures does the government intend to take with regard to Mawda's family? Finally, what action does it intend to take on the recommendations of Committee P, which had been issued in the past - and even recalled in 2017 - but whose ignorance seems to be at the root of the dramatic event that occurred in May 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the emotion you have expressed about the tragic events of the loss of a child for parents. I spoke at this rostrum and kept every word spoken at the time. There is, however, one point on which, honourable Member, I would like to correct your point. In my response, I indicated the commitment I made on behalf of the government - and that I communicated to the family - to ensure that the rule of law, the separation of powers, and the independence of investigations could be deployed. I have also made it clear that all the elements are not limited to the inquiry of Committee P. When you take my full statement from this rostrum, I am talking about the judicial investigation and the inquiry of Committee P. The latter was communicated to Parliament a few days ago, because Committee P is directly dependent on Parliament. There is also a continuing judicial investigation. Better than that, it is several judicial investigations that are carried out, since there are three points which are the subject of the investigation: the question of this fatal shooting and tragedy, the question of the wicked obstructions and the refusal to comply in the course of the prosecution race - this part belongs to the local authorities of Mons - and finally, the part concerning the suspicion of trafficking in human beings that falls under the jurisdiction of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. Here too, I wish to fully respect the principle of the separation of powers. I can still inform Parliament that, with regard to the judicial investigation, extradition procedures are under way since it appears that a suspected person has been arrested outside Belgian territory. We are consistent. I think we need to ensure that we get all the elements that have a Committee P component and a component on the various judicial investigations, in strict compliance with the principle of separation of powers. Finally, with regard to the recommendations of Committee P, there were initial debates in Parliament on the subject. Views were expressed. It goes without saying that the government and the ministers in charge, as well as the high authorities responsible for security, will have to see how we can already try to translate the recommendations on the three points which have been identified in the conclusions of Committee P and which have given rise - it is quite normal - to parliamentary debates since Committee P is attached to Parliament, as everyone here knows. Madam Member, I hope that this enlightenment will allow you to complete and give a nuance to the interpretation you had of this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u39	Prime Minister, I don't know what to say. First, I didn't make any interpretations. I said you had elements in your hand and I took your statements back. I can only conceive every time there are elements in your possession, you were even further backwards on the decision to be made. At the time, there were already very strong demands for regularization of this family that suffered from the loss of a child. Now you're saying you're waiting for court decisions. How long are we going to leave them in this distress, while there is now evidence that there has been at least some minor police dysfunction? I can't hear that. I wonder why the government doesn't rule. You mentioned all the procedures. In this case, the procedure is very clear on how things have happened. Prime Minister, will you leave this family for a long time to suffer, when it has already lost a child, will you leave it for a long time to do so, which is totally unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u40	Minister, at the beginning of this legislature, the government decided that longer work was needed. However, as compensation, workable work would be provided and the end of the career would be facilitated. Everything related to longer work has now been approved in Parliament, but nothing that would facilitate the end of the career has come into the house. It can't be. I've received dozens of e-mails, one of which I'd like to read to you. Suzy from Limburg asks me to tell her story here. She worked for 40 years, 11 years as a hairdresser, 9 years in the catering industry and 20 years as a cleaning woman. Due to the law that has ensured since 1 January 2019 that she has a career of 42 years for early retirement, she is no longer allowed to leave. After 40 years of tired work in the catering industry, as a cleaning lady and as a hairdresser, she still has to work up to 65 years. Minister, I do not think this is possible. That is not possible for Suzy, but it is not possible for the 68 000 people who signed the petition that ACV and ABBV brought you to your cabinet. They say it can't be done like this anymore. The longer work has been approved, but there is no mention of the measures taken before the end of the career. I cannot accept that, minister. There is nothing about heavy trades or career ends. But working longer is always there! Minister, you have in your drawer two royal decrees that will permanently cancel any possibility of leaving at the age of 58. Your firm doesn't know if we can set up these two royal orders in day-to-day business. I want to tell you that this has nothing to do with day-to-day business, it is a matter of commitment. Do you agree to tear these two royal decrees apart to allow workers to go to pre-board at 58 years of age because they are tired of working in one of the most productive economies in the world?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hedebouw, first of all, it is important to stress that, with regard to the message from Suzy and the petition that has been sent to me, I have given due attention to the issue of end-of-life, and I share the concern about it. People who have worked for a long time and at the end of their career have the prospect of having to work for a few more years are in a very delicate position. That is why we have clearly asked the social partners in the context of the heavy professions and the end-of-life problems to come out together. I regret that this has not been possible. That is the first point. It is wrong that, in the context of workable work, you go loosely about the law on manoeuvrable and workable work and that that law does not contain any elements in which that concern is shared. The law even provides instruments. It is true, however, that we are not yet here. We have not yet taken the necessary measures or additional measures for the heavy professions and the end-of-life problems. Secondly, this week in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, the tax section was approved. The social part must now come. There are also two royal decrees, to which you refer, in particular one on the SWT and one on the runways. I assume that we and the course can finalize the work deal. Thirdly, social dialogue is very important to me. The Group of Ten has come together. The trade unions felt they had to leave the negotiating table at some point, which is very unfortunate. After all, there is a great deal at stake, not only the welfare envelope, but also a social and interprofessional agreement for the next two years, especially for 2019 and 2020. They have left the negotiating table. However, I can tell you that next Tuesday we will see both employers and syndicates to see what possibilities there are for reaching an interprofessional agreement. It is very important that we give the social partners the opportunity to reach such an interprofessional agreement on the wage standard, the welfare envelope and a number of other elements. In this respect, we must deal with matters with due care and with the necessary progressive thinking. However, I hope that you will also be able to tell Suzy and others that we share their concerns and that we must take further steps in this area, but also that we want to give the social partners every opportunity to meet together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u42	Mr Minister, the problem for Suzy and the 68 000 employees who signed the petitions from ASVV and ACV is that these measures already apply. Since January 1st Suzy has to work longer. It has worked for 40 years, yet it must continue to work. That's the problem. The compensation is not available, but it must continue to work. I would ask that a political decision be taken here. You need to leave those KBs in your drawer because you just don't need them. That is why so much is being mobilized. Suzy's an example, but it's no coincidence that she's a woman. Three quarters of women do not have a 42-year career. The women are the real victims of this. Three quarters don't have that. That is one of the reasons why there will be such a great mobilisation on 8 March, Women's Day, because they wonder why they should always be victims when it comes to pensions, wages, discrimination. All right, let's get it over with. Minister, this is also one of the reasons why on 13 February, during the general strike, there will be a lot of people – and you feel it, I am sure – because people say, "Let us blow at the end of a career." Minister, I want to say: take your courage with two hands, tear these two royal decrees, give people the right to blow at 58, because they are tired of working in one of the most productive economies in the world. I remind you: in Belgium, there are 18 years of difference in healthy life expectancy between someone with a university degree and someone without a university degree. Eighteen year difference in life expectancy in good health, that is the reality in Belgium!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u43	Mr President, Minister, a disturbing story this morning in the press: that of this young woman, mother of three children and victim of domestic violence, forced to leave her marital home. It's a pain in the ass! She is housed in a reception centre before looking for another apartment. This young woman works full-time and therefore earns her life, but she is alone and has to raise three children. She pays a rent of 1,000 euros per month. She needs to warm up and feed and dress her children. She must, Minister, live and try to tie both ends. And his ex, who has to pay 400 euros a month for the maintenance of the three children, is to the absent subscribers because he does not pay it. This young woman who works and earns more than 1,800 euros a month cannot ask the SECAL (Accounts Service) to advance to her the pension that the father of her children does not pay to her. This mess is the story of many women who don't get away with it. You know that one can quickly shift into the spiral of poverty, but it is extremely difficult and employing to get out of it. Minister, associations – Women's life joined by the League of Families – believe that it is high time to take action by removing this revenue ceiling and that the SECAL is finally accessible to all women. For these associations, the defined ceiling stigmatizes women who have to prove that they are in need while only seeking to enforce the rights of their children. Minister, I appeal to your new fight, the one presented a few months ago in your book The Century of Women, your fight for a more committed feminism. I also appeal to your Prime Minister, who, four years ago, said that he wanted to pay particular attention to the fight against child poverty. How do you respond to these women? Are you ready to finally grant SEVAL all the means necessary to ensure that it works optimally, that it is known to all and, above all, that it becomes truly accessible to all single-parent families?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u44	Mrs Winckel, thank you for this question. I agree with your concern about the vulnerability of single-parent families. The Labour Research Institute and the HIVA-KU Leuven Society are currently conducting a study on behalf of the Maintenance Claims Service. According to preliminary results, in 6 out of 10 cases, the target audience for SECAL is single-parent families. Half of the families have one child and three quarters of the families have two children. There are limits: 1 870 euros in the case of a child, 1 940 euros in the case of two children. Last year, SECAL had a total budget of EUR 31 million in advances on maintenance payments for approximately 18,000 children. I am not opposed to the review of the current limits. I'm even pretty good at it. But it must be done in depth. The current study can help us to understand where to act so that working mothers do not find themselves in a precarious situation. Modernization should also be included in the case of recovery. You may know that this afternoon, in this chamber, we have to rule on a bill to modernize and improve the efficiency of the recovery of amounts from maintenance debtors. Better recovery can give the SECAL more resources, which will open up more space to determine where to increase the limit amounts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u45	Minister, thank you for your answer. You're saying a study is under way. But it has been quite a while since my group tabled a text on the subject. According to the associations, the best thing to do would be to remove this ceiling. For me, the ideal would be to remove it for people in difficulty. It should be noted that 40 per cent of single-parent families are at increased risk of poverty. And, unfortunately, this figure has only increased in recent years. The austerity policy of your government and the measures that you have constantly taken are directly responsible for the situation. Minister, don't take shy action. If you are convinced of the need to move forward, you will have a majority to vote on a text. As far as we are concerned, we have already tabled a bill. Please, move, move! It is time to take early action to make SECAL more accessible, more visible. There is a need for concrete measures, which are in the right direction for single-parent families.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u46	Minister, everyone will remember the importance of the Federal Channel Plan. That was one of the political responses to the misery of the terrorist attacks. It was also a unanimous recommendation from this Parliament following the committee of inquiry. But, above all, Minister, it was a very concrete commitment for all police and justice staff. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is here, and also for public prosecutors and inspection services, to get to work together. Last year, on 26 September, we held a very thorough evaluation consultation with the then Minister for the Interior and Security and with all the actors mentioned. This showed that very hopeful results were achieved in the fight against the underlying crime factors. It also appeared that there is a lot of engagement on the field. But at that point, all players have given about the same message: pay attention, it's five to twelve, because we see the reinforcement to make all that possible seeping away. Mr Minister, today, unfortunately, it has come so far that the reinforcement of the Vilvoorde-Machelen police area, for example, with twenty units, two more, and one more in a few weeks' time. In Molenbeek there was a reinforcement with fifty units, but it also evaporates. The worst thing is that these units are not being replaced, with the result that I get the signal from all those important actors that the objectives cannot be achieved. People are losing commitment. That is why, Minister, I am asking for clarity. This is a clear political question, I believe. Either the Channel Plan is bled to death at Flemish level, with or without a solemn burial, or together with the local actors, who show willingness to do so, we are looking for solutions to bring about the capacity that is absolutely necessary to achieve the objectives of the Channel Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u47	Mr. Bonte, Mayor of Vilvoorde, the Channel Plan dates from 2016 and consists of two parts, a local section and a federal section. The plan was made by my predecessor. When we look at the global plan from a helicopter perspective, we don't see any major deficits. For the local part, the four Brussels police areas participating in the plan received 100% reinforcement. So there are 120 of the 120 places filled. Only the police area of Vilvoorde-Machelen, of which you are a member, have any real problems. I won't deny that. It is my job, our common task, to solve that problem. It is true that in your police area two out of 20 assigned persons are actually working. I'll make every effort to push this up. From 1 June this will be reinforced with three full-time equivalents. I would also like to talk about the causes, in particular the fact that the premium scheme in Brussels and the bilinguality premium do not apply to your police area Vilvoorde-Machelen, which makes the candidates for the Channel Plan more likely to go to the Brussels area. That is a first observation. A second observation is that in recent years there has been a large staff turnover in the Vilvoorde-Machelen police area. This is not only the case in your area, this is happening in several zones. According to the figures you and I have available, there has been a turnover of 54 so-called divided persons over the last two years. Six police officers then moved to the Vilvoorde-Machelen police area. The federal part included is the occupation of the Channel Plan at present 89 %, but it is urgent that I admit that to allow the implementation of the Channel Plan in your area. I'll do the same. I propose that the formal consultation, which took place for the first time on 26 September, should resume as soon as possible, and then, together with my services, look at how we can solve the staff problem. I don't think that urgency can be reduced at all to what you just called a first-class funeral. On the contrary, it is the intention of myself and the Home Office and the police to fulfil the commitments. That is my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answer and for your clear political choice to make every effort to fulfil the commitment. I also hear this message in the field of policemen, who say that they must try very quickly to repair the damage and become operational again. In a moment, oral questions will be asked about drug plantations. Well, a full operation is currently being stopped as a result of the removal of police officers. Therefore, Minister, I would very much like to take up the gauntlet. I will do everything I can to bring the security partners back to the table, and if you wish, I will involve you so that we can work together to find the best solutions in the short term and hopefully in a structural way. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week our beautiful municipality of Hechtel-Eksel was shocked by three deaths in a drug lab. That is fierce and yet the problem of drug labs in the border area is not new. I believe that this has been debated on several occasions. Mass dumping of hazardous waste from drug labs is also a problem. In Limburg last year it happened no less than 31 times and 12 times in the Kempen. That's a high number. It is also particularly dangerous for people and the environment. Moreover, it is the municipalities that are responsible for the disposal of that hazardous waste. Police and Justice are doing their best, but it's mopping with the faucet open. We hear on the ground that there is insufficient capacity in the police. Gangs are always looking for new locations. The production of synthetic drugs is also taking place on both sides of the border. Colleagues, it can't go on like this. We're gonna have to make a tooth. First and foremost, we must ensure that local authorities can act more effectively. In this respect, we are waiting for the administrative enforcement bill. At the same time, we must try to take maximum advantage of the assets of criminals. Above all, and this is extremely important, we must work for much better cooperation between the Netherlands and Belgium, between Justice and police on both sides of the border. I think it is also necessary to think about how we can increase capacity. Minister, I asked a similar question to the Minister for the Interior, but this question to you is equally justified. How can you take measures to optimise a common search policy across national borders? What will you do to further develop the exchange of police and judicial information? In what way will there be an intensification of consultations between the judicial authorities? Finally, how will you respond to the disposal of hazardous waste? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u50	Mr President, Minister, almost every week there are reports in the media about drug labs and drug crime in Limburg, but also in the Kempen. Of course, that has everything to do with the bordering position of these regions. As Mr Lijnen has also said, such facts have reappeared this week in the second most beautiful municipality in Limburg. Every time, it wakes us up. We stand here every few weeks with the same story. We pointed it out a few weeks ago. There are the increased efforts from the Netherlands, where EUR 100 million were allocated to additional investments in the fight against organised drug crime. For Limburg this means that we will use 10 million euros at the border with our country. A few months ago, we asked a question about the cost of cleaning up the drug labs that threatened to fall to the municipal authorities. Again and again we knock on that nail. It is, as Mr Lijnen says, mopping with the tap open. I support her in this call and I am glad that she will support me on this subject as well. What shall we do? How can we proceed? Apparently, it's a matter of lack of resources. In any case, that says the Limburg prosecutor, who keeps asking for resources. The Ravel mayor Walter Luyten, who is confronted with the same problem, reports this over and over again. At the same time, cooperation with the Netherlands to arrive at a joint approach in the Euregio, but also in the border region between the Netherlands and Belgium, appears to be complex. We need to look at how we can do this better. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. There has just been talk of the Channel Plan and there is talk of the Power Plan. Perhaps it is time to draw up a Maasplan, with a number of concrete measures being taken in that region. It is good that several people, such as Mr Lijnen and other mayors, have pointed this out. How will we proceed? What means are there? What initiatives can be developed to intensify cooperation with the Netherlands in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for these questions about the two most beautiful municipalities in Limburg. Limburg is a particularly efficient and integrated working province in the area of prosecution of all kinds of crime. The Framework Paper on Integral Safety has made the fight against cannabis and the production of synthetic drugs a priority. The framework note is also clear in the field of cocaine. Police and judicial services have worked hard on this in recent years. A record number of prosecutions and findings took place: in 2016 30 tonnes of cocaine were seized in the port of Antwerp, 42 tonnes in 2017 and more than 50 tonnes in 2018. The number of decommissioned cannabis plantations in Belgium has been stable for five years at...................................................................................................................................................................................................... The market is shifting: where the Belgian cannabis came from the Netherlands before, we will now grow it ourselves. The number of decommissioned labs for the production of synthetic drugs varies between 15 and 20 a year. Personally, I find the dumping of this material highly worrying. What the production of synthetic drugs leaves behind dirt and poison is not to be estimated. The number we found in this way has increased from 13 to 40 waste sites in 2018. These drug gangs lack any moral sense. That's obvious. At the moment, the Justice Commission is discussing a draft law that allows the costs of cleaning up the buildings to be borne by the Justice Department. It is not just about the border region, but it is the worst. The population density, national borders and the presence of ports and airports in that region are reasons for this. I've already done three cases on this. The frames of the parquet in Limburg have been fully completed, in Antwerp we will achieve that full implementation very soon. An Arrondissementeel Informatie- en Expertisecentrum has started in Antwerp and Limburg. It's operational. The European research warrant allows us to cooperate more intensively without lengthy rogatory commission with the Netherlands. For a long time we have been exploring how we can work even better administratively and judicially together. I already referred to the Arrondissementeel Informatie- en Expertisecentrum and the protocol between the parquet and the administrative services in Antwerp, but we will also cooperate with the Netherlands. On 28 November I was a guest in's-Hertogenbosch, where a Belgian-Dutch study on illegal drug markets was presented. This study has identified the problem. I had not thought of the name of Mr Terwingen and I saw Mr Verherstraeten look angry when there was a Maasplan. So it'll be more like "Kempen-Maas." For those who are not from Flanders, the Kempen is also in the province of Antwerp. The aim of this plan will be to bring together all actors on both sides of the border, i.e. the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police forces, the municipalities and the administrative services, so that each can work together at strategic and operational level within its own competence. By bringing together the policy and operational actors of both countries, we can quickly improve operational cooperation. This is evident from the study presented in's Hertogenbosch. The Kempen-Maasplan or Maas-Kempenplan is currently being strategically, operationally and budgetaryly prepared in collaboration with my colleague from the Interior. It will be launched in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your very specific answer. Mr Terwingen, Mr Verherstraeten, let us not call this a Maasplan or Kempen-Maasplan, but a 'border plan'. In any case, what's in a name, the child must have a name, but the content is much more important. A kind of drug task force should now be set up to develop intensive cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands. So there will be a concrete plan of action. Minister, I am delighted with the news that your bill also provides for an opportunity to consider the cost of disposing of hazardous waste as legal costs. That would be an enlightenment for a lot of municipal authorities. I look forward to the plan that will be worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u53	Mr President, Minister, as you said yourself, cannabis is growing more and more in our country. This happens especially in the border region, because the Dutch move their cannabis plantations to the other side of the border. Your announced Kempen-Maasplan or Maas-Kempenplan I'm not going to make a point of that name. For the dumped drug waste, you already provided a solution. Nor should we forget that the mayors of the border municipalities concerned want to cooperate. I think I speak for my colleagues when I say that we are very interested in this administrative enforcement and approach. You already referred to the Arrondissementeel Information- en Expertisecentrum (ARIEC). Let us also think carefully about the EURIEC. That Euregional Information and Expertise Centre is ready to implement and is very important to further develop this administrative approach, together with the judicial approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u54	Minister, this morning the press relayed new information in the Brabant killers' file. An ex-investigator was reportedly placed under arrest today, just as one of his former colleagues would have been last week. They are both alleged to be suspected, when they were members of the police, of knowingly and voluntarily withholding information in the course of the investigation and participating in an association of criminals. Minister, you're following this file closely. The facts were appalling from the point of view of gratuitous violence. We think first of all of the victims who, so many years later, are still in uncertainty. In this regard, I welcome your initiative to create, within the framework of the Committee on Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence, the so-called "cold case" damage resulting from this long-term uncertainty as to the identity or motives of the perpetrators. Minister, you are putting the human but also legal means to try to resolve this issue. As you explained in October 2017 in the Justice Commission, support can now be provided not only by the Federal Judicial Police but also by the investigative services of Committee P to analyse these new avenues. It should also be recalled that it was under this legislature that the statute of limitations applicable to these acts was extended by ten years and that the law on repentance came into force. Minister, in keeping with the secrecy of the investigation, can you confirm the information published today in the press? Can you give us more details about the charges against these two defendants? Are these new charges related to the increase in capacity assigned to this case? Do you think that these capabilities are now sufficient to analyze this track? Do you intend to take stock of this matter in the Committee on Justice in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u55	Mr Calomne, you know how much I care about the successful completion of this investigation into the killings of the Brabant and how much we have done to postpone the statute of limitations and to better arm the Federal Prosecutor's Office with investigators to move forward in this case. As part of the investigation into the Brabant killers, the Federal Prosecutor's Office confirmed that on 24 and 31 January, two former members of the police services were arrested by the investigating judge on suspicion of criminal association with a view to concealing information crucial or useful for public prosecution. The facts cited relate to the discovery made following the second search of the canal at Ronquières. For decades, this discovery has raised questions and it is very important to shed light on the genesis and context of this excavation. The investigation in this regard is under way, with the already reported increase in police and judicial deployment. The persons concerned must still appear before the Chamber of Counsel and possibly before the Indictments Chamber. I cannot comment further at this time given the sensitivity of the investigation. In these circumstances, I believe that any further disclosure could seriously harm the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u56	Minister, thank you for the various elements of your response. As you said, we are talking here about a dossier that has lasted several decades and has marked many generations of Belgians. And even if I wasn't two years old at the time of the first attacks, I still appreciate, like you, how much our country has been hit and bruised by these bloody crimes and robberies. As you said, we must continue the work to try to shed light on this unglorious past. We have a clear responsibility to the victims and more generally to the citizens of our country who are waiting for justice and reparation. Our group will remain engaged with you in this direction and we will of course remain attentive to the development of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u57	Minister, you know what an obsession is: a repetitive idea that no rational argument succeeds in dispelling. This is the case with the INAMI quota saga. This time, it is the entrance examinations that are considered "too lax" for Francophones, so that a filter should be imposed at the end of the studies. Where are we going, minister? "Laxists," these exams? Yet, 80% of candidates fail. You say we counted too many Francophone winners in 2018. However, ARES (Académie de recherche et d'éducation supérieur) states that 20% of the 1,042 winners are foreign nationals. You still can't imagine that all these foreign students will stay in Belgium to practice their profession. In addition, we know that many of them - 10% in 2017 - will not eventually enrol in medicine, while others - about 40% - will fail at the end of the year. As a result, they will not be as numerous on the way out as we want to believe. On the other hand, the shortage of doctors, present and future, has been repeatedly objectively demonstrated. However, the obsessed with the numerus clausus, to which you belong, Madam Minister, have nothing but objective cadastres. We know that this obsession is of a Community nature. This time, one more step has been taken in the irrational, since you threatened not to assign an INAMI number to Francophones until a filter was imposed. Taking young people hostage in this way amounts to an odious and unworthy blackmail by a minister in the service of all Belgians. Minister, on what objective basis do you base your refusal to grant INAMI numbers to Francophones? Do you have the power to take such a radical step by sitting in a government in day-to-day business? Finally, how can you say that Francophones are too lax? Have you only considered the differences between the North and the South, which accommodates a majority of foreign students?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u58	Madam Secretary, it is no secret that I fought very hard for the agreement that was formed under the former government. We had a clear objective: to create justice for the Flemish students after twenty years of malpractice and finally to stop the Flemish taxpayer paying the price of non-policy and the unwillingness on the French-speaking side. But also, and this is sometimes forgotten, from a certain respect and concern for the current French-speaking students in training, which we felt should not be the victims of the non-policy of the PS. That was the reason for the agreement. That was a balanced agreement that would rectify the whole situation and ensure that the surplus was also reduced. There was only one task for Minister of Education Marcourt: to do what Flanders has been doing for twenty years, to introduce an entrance exam, not the windowdressing for which he now appears to have chosen. I have never been naive in this file, but I have had the will to find a solution. I thought that was our job. It was the first time that was tried to do this. But now it is clear, Madam Minister, that we are not fooling each other: there is continued unwillingness on the French-speaking side. It goes even further. Mr Marcort hopes with the political cynicism with which he now uses his own students as some kind of hostages to put pressure on the federal government. He hopes you won't stand by while the N-VA is no longer behind you, but he forgets, of course, that I will keep you behind the feathers from the opposition. With that hope, he tries to abuse the students in battle with you. In the press, you have clearly said that it is enough for you now. Madam Secretary, what does that mean in concrete terms? What will you do now? Soon you will have to issue the new certificates. How will you deal with this in concrete terms from the government? There is one more important question, because you also know where the calf is bound: have you had a conversation with Prime Minister Michel about this? Is your MR partner on the same page?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u59	Mrs Caprasse and Mrs Van Peel, thank you for your questions. Because quotas have not been respected for more than 20 years, nearly 3,000 students have been over-trained in the French Community in recent years. Mrs Caprasse, you cannot say that there are not enough doctors. It is true that there are not enough generalists and that some specialties are in short supply. To solve this problem, the Länder have everything in their hands. The subquotas are a decision of the Länder. In order to avoid penalising students who had already started training at the time of my entry into office, I have drawn up a compromise within the government with a view to issuing additional certificates so that all the students concerned can start their specialization internship, on the strict condition that the two Communities put in place and maintain an effective filter at the beginning of medical and dentistry studies. So in the last two years, 2017 and 2018, all the other necessary certificates were delivered to the students, just because, as Mrs Van Peel pointed out, they were held hostage by the situation. We have indeed worked hard to find an almost impossible compromise. That compromise did not just fall out of the sky. Within the government, it was agreed to compensate 1,500 supernumerary students on the francophone side. This will take about 15 years from 2024. Last Monday, I proposed a memorandum of understanding at the Interdepartmental Conference containing agreements on federal quota certificates, the withdrawal formula during studies (i.e. those who do not obtain their diploma) and data exchange. The quota attestations implement the law of 22 March 2018. There is no discussion in the Inter-Ministerial Conference about the method of calculation and the exchange of data, which is done objectively, as you ask. The Walloon Region and the French Community refuse to sign this Memorandum of Understanding. They therefore refuse to assume their responsibilities and commitments to students. More seriously, Minister Marcourt questioned the quotas set and the methodology of the Planning Commission, which was installed by Ms. Onkelinx. We just don't want to meet the quotas. What will happen now, Mrs Van Peel? Since he is not well aware of how this is calculated, we are planning a special thematic Inter-Ministerial Conference on 11 February, where the chairman of the Planning Committee will personally come and explain everything to the relevant ministers, as we have done in the Chambers. This will cover the following questions. What is the calculation method? How are the quotas handled and the transfers from the past? How do we take into account the number of students who drop out or work abroad? And so on. My aim is still to find a solution, not only for the short term, because we have it, but also for the long term. We expect a clear commitment from the French Community and the Walloon region to come to an agreement. Pacta sunt servanda. An agreement is being respected. They do not come back to that, and certainly not on the students' hood.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u60	Minister, this is a dialogue of the deaf. You do not take into account the realities of the field in Wallonia and Brussels. We're not going to make any progress on this until you keep that position. I am surprised that my colleagues at the MR have never taken into account this problem of shortage of doctors in the South or with the problems of the very large number of foreign students. I never hear them take a position on this. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, when we were debating the Directorate-General for Disabled Persons, it was said that there were so few doctors that we had to think about replacing them with nurses. Today there is a big problem in this country related to medicine and practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u61	Mr. President, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u62	No, no. Mr. Thiéry, there is a difference of opinion. No one's been appointed. No one!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u63	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u64	But it happens every week. No!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u65	Thank you, Mr. Thiéry. Mr. Thiéry, I'll call you back to order. I give the floor to Mrs Van Peel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u66	Madam Minister, I am glad that the dossier continues to touch the feelings, because that is right. Madam Secretary, if I am correct, you have two months before you have to issue the KB with the certificates. Of course, that won't be long. It is clear that there will be no more concessions and that Marcourt will not follow the agreement. It's obvious to me. That means you can't deliver those certificates right now. This means that, first and foremost, the French-speaking students will be the main victims, but the responsibility for this lies with the PS Group in that case where it lies. They'll be able to explain it to the students. For us, it's gonna stop here anyway. That's enough. We will no longer allow the Flemish taxpayer to pay for this. We will no longer let the Flemish student take it on the hood. It's over. After the elections, I would like to discuss this matter again. We have given every opportunity. The only thing that remains to be discussed here is its own choice and its own responsibility. We are talking about the division of health care. You understand that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u67	Mr President, Minister, last week an illegal criminal Moroccan was released from the closed centre in Steenokkerzeel. That has caused a great deal of swell in public opinion, and that is obvious, since this is about someone who has ended up in prison for seventeen years for beatings and injuries, for all kinds of thefts and for all kinds of other criminal offences. By the way, there's still an appeal against this man for rape. The man is illegally present in our country, because he no longer has valid residence papers, and so he was locked up in the closed center in Steenokkerzeel. You wanted to repatriate him. The plane ticket was already arranged. Normally he had to leave for Morocco on 22 January. However, the Moroccan government ruled that the man cannot enter the country. Then we come to the criticism of the N-VA on this matter, from former Secretary of State Francken, who unfortunately is not here today. He was a disgrace to this fact, he said that he has made a great deal of effort to conclude an agreement with Morocco on the readmission of those illegal criminals and that you are doing nothing. I do not want to record your defence, but I know the memorandum of understanding that was concluded on 22 April 2016 a little bit and I know that it only talks about identification and not about readmission. That famous agreement is therefore only half a chord and does not regulate the take-back but only the identification. But that's where it goes wrong too. And it also goes wrong, Madam Secretary, when such a person is simply sent into nature, with all the consequences of that. After all, I would like to know what happened to the man concerned. Has he been re-arrested? Is there a procedure, because he's staying illegally in our country? What are the consequences of all this? What have you done in the meantime? How does this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u68	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, after the Moroccan national was ordered to leave the country in question, the Department of Foreign Affairs tried for eight months to obtain a travel document, which is indeed necessary for the purpose of expulsion. During that period, the person in question was locked up in Steenokkerzeel, with a view to the removal of the territory. I note that both my predecessor and myself have been my predecessor for almost seven months and since the beginning of September I have made a lot of efforts to get movement on this dossier. Similarly, I met with the ambassador and vice-consuls of the Kingdom of Morocco in my cabinet and all diplomatic means were exhausted to proceed with the removal of this person. Indeed, the memorandum of understanding concluded with Morocco does not guarantee the issue of travel documents and therefore a return and deals with other matters, such as the exchange of information. This has resulted in no laissez-passer being delivered by the Moroccan authorities, which I regret. Until the last day it was possible, we, from our side, locked up the man. Upon expiry of the maximum period of eight months, my services were forced by law to release the person in question. As a result, DVZ immediately informed the police and intelligence services. Meanwhile, the procedures continue and we continue to make efforts to obtain the necessary travel documents delivered by the embassy or consulate. In the meantime, it is indeed possible that the person concerned may once again be convicted by the Justice Department in a criminal case in which he is involved but has appealed. That would mean that he would have to serve an additional prison sentence in our country and could not be removed from the territory until later. I would like to point out that, despite existing agreements, it is not always possible to return. This means further work on international agreements on asylum and return.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u69	Madam Minister, your detailed explanation shows once again how surreally certain dossiers sometimes come together. The fact that we are unable to repatriate such a serious criminal, who has been in prison for seventeen years, despite all the so-called well-arranged chords, shows how limp and error our system is running. Especially the fact that such a person can be released, while there is still a procedure for possible rape, defies any imagination. I think I can say that, provided there is some legal creativity, it should be possible to lock up such a person, who ultimately does not have valid residence papers, for as long as this is necessary. Every attorney will tell you that, if the public prosecutors want, we can also put people without papers, say illegals who commit a criminal offence, behind bars. There must be a willingness on the part of the Justice Department to do so. Unfortunately, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u71	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I propose to postpone the discussion of the following points: 9. the draft law adapting certain federal tax provisions to the new Code of Companies and Associations, Nos 3367/1 to 4. 10. the draft law regulating the transfer of subjection to legal persons' tax to corporate tax, Nos 3368/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I propose that you postpone the discussion of the following points: 9. Bill to adopt certain federal tax provisions in the new Corporations and Associations Code, Nos. 3367/1 to 4. 10. the draft law organizing the transition from the tax liability of legal persons to corporate tax liability, Nos. 3368/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Benoit Hellings and Mr Alain Summit) on Belgium's accession to the international nuclear ban treaty, No. 2672/1. The Committee on External Relations proposes that this proposal be rejected. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the motion for a resolution (Doc. Dirk Van der Maelen, Wouter De Vriendt, Benoit Hellings and Alain Top) on the accession of Belgium to the International Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, No. 2672/1. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this proposal. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u72	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nahima Lanjri, Leen Dierick, Bert Wollants, Els Van Hoof, Nele Lijnen, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Casier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u74	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u75	May I ask that those who wish to intervene during the sitting should come and register on a number of points? I ask members who wish to speak in our debates to come and register with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during the current cold winter days we usually raise the heating level at home. You're probably gonna do the same. However, for some people the energy bill can rise high. Fortunately, there are social corrections, including for electricity and gas bills. There is, after all, a social tariff for gas and electricity, which is granted to people with a living wage, to people with integration benefits, i.e. disabled people, and to people with an income guarantee for the elderly or to help the elderly. These are just a few examples of people who today have a social tariff for gas and electricity. However, some people and target groups do not get what they are entitled to. After all, what's wrong? This is something the Ombudsman has been talking about for years. In the disability service, it may take a long time, sometimes months or a year, before people receive an answer to their demand for integration or an income replacement. As a result, they also miss their social tariff for gas and electricity. If the decision is delayed for a year, they will face a problem. Someone, for example, submitted an application to be recognised as a person with disabilities in January 2018 and is therefore asking for an integration meeting. If he or she only gets his or her decision now, in January 2019, the person concerned will fortunately get his or her benefit with retroactive effect. However, the discount, i.e. the social tariff for gas and electricity, does not apply retroactively. This is not laid down in the legislation. The Ombudsman has already raised the problem a number of times. I have tabled a bill with Mrs Leen Dierick and members of other groups have co-signed the bill in order to deal with the problem. In the legislative proposal, we called for the rebate to be granted retroactively. After all, ladies and gentlemen, when an average family with average consumption has to wait for a year and pays too much for electricity for a year, that family suffers a loss of around EUR 280 a year, which is huge for people with disabilities, who are already not broad. I am therefore very pleased that the legislative proposal I have tabled has received broad support in committee. It was unanimously supported and approved, both by the opposition and by the majority. I would like to thank you again for that. It is really a good thing that people with disabilities, the weakest in our society, get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this important legislative proposal solves a long-standing problem. Mrs Lanjri has outlined the system and the challenge well. It was necessary to make it easier and faster for disabled people to get what they are entitled to. The Federal Ombudsman had to report this time and time again without anything happening. It was therefore only logical that Members should take matters into their own hands. After all, that's what we're here for. I am also proud that our former colleague Wouter Raskin, together with Mrs Lanjri, has worked hard in drafting this proposal. I am even more proud of the fact that this is an effective way of achieving results. We received another warning from the federal Ombudsman at a time when the bill had already been tabled. That, of course, led to a certain urgency and I am glad that we have been able to respond quickly and adequately. These people have a right to get it as soon as possible. This bill responds to their concerns. They need to get what they're entitled to, that's what it's about. That is what we want to offer them, and we will support this bill with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a joint meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs and the Economic Affairs was held. On that occasion, I noted that, since the beginning of this year, the disability sector has been in the spotlight in our country. Regardless of the circumstances, in itself, it's a good thing. For example, already on January 9, our two committees together were hearing from the College of Federal Ombudsmen, which provided us with two recommendations for the disability sector. In addition, he called for a citizen-oriented administration, which should be a priority. This leads us today to debate and – in any case, I hope – to approve a bill which must finally give concrete effect to the retroactivity of the decisions granting the social energy tariff for people with disabilities. I say "finally" because the journey was long, as Mr Wollants just pointed out. Indeed, the problem does not date from yesterday. Federal mediators had already made recommendations in previous years. These recommendations had not been echoed in the government's and the majority's camp – I must note that. Paradoxically, there was a unanimous vote on 15 January. It would therefore have been necessary to wait until the day-to-day business was completed, and the government was "impuis santé" before the case could be resolved in a favourable way. However, it was not for lack of questioning the competent ministers. That said, today we are looking forward to it. The Socialist Group has voted this bill with conviction in committee, just as it will in plenary. Undoubtedly, the vote that will take place is a step forward. However, I draw the attention of the authors and all the colleagues who support this bill to the fact that the issue of retroactivity has been the subject of resistance. There were brakes. There was inertia. And perhaps there will still be obstacles to implementation. We will therefore have to remain vigilant. The passing of the law is a first step, but it will have to come into effect. Behind the question of the social tariff for energy is the question of the automaticity of all social rights, a key issue, particularly in the fight against poverty, for the access of all our citizens to their rights. While some points have been made, there is still much work to be done in this area and, unfortunately, too often many obstacles. We are taking a step today. There is another one to be done, since, in the recommendations of the mediators, there was also the issue of decision-making for the medical reviews that are favourable to the applicant. I hope that our colleague's bill, Mrs Jiroflée, can be examined by our Committee on Social Affairs in order to accept a second recommendation and a request from the sector, which is also quite legitimate. If I take a step back from the disability policy in this legislature – we talked about it at length yesterday – I will quote a recent opinion from the National Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities of January 22, 2019, which lists all the outstanding issues and the unmet demands of the sector and the people with disabilities themselves. I will certainly not be exhaustive, but I have pointed out that the demand is the reform of the 1987 Disability Allowances Act, which no longer corresponds to the realities of today. The sector insists that this reform should take place on the basis of the needs and expectations of persons with disabilities and not on the basis of the opinions of a few experts. Second, the issue of close caregivers was not resolved either during this legislature. The substance of the subject was not even really addressed. There is a third major claim, namely raising the income replacement allowance to the level of the poverty line, not to mention the human resources sufficient to enable the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities to provide services to all applicants. We are rehiring, while the workforce has been reduced by 10% in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, beyond today's positive vote, I hope that people with disabilities will remain at the centre of everyone's attention in the coming months and above all when a new government agreement is drawn up. Little has been done. Everything remains to be done!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long on the subject since a number of explanations have already been given. Some of you may know that persons with disabilities or recognized as such are entitled to an allowance from the Disability Branch, with retroactive effect when granted with some delay. You also know that there is a waiting and processing time that can take many months in some regions of the country. When such persons receive their allowance, the retroactive effect shall be taken into account. This was not the case for residential protected customers in terms of gas and electricity. When they were entitled to the allowance, the allowance was only payable on the first day of the quarter in which the administration had decided to grant them the allowance. This means that there were still a large number of beneficiaries who were deprived of this essential aid, while we know that they are sometimes very disadvantaged beneficiaries. It is therefore in response to this harmful situation that this bill was introduced. We can only rejoice in that. As Mr Delizée said, during the two hearings of both the Ombudsman and the whole Directorate-General and the various people who were present yesterday, we were able to assess the importance of solving the problem of granting the allowance with retroactivity. Today, we are really happy to see that the people who are among the most vulnerable in our society will be entitled to this allowance. Of course, we will support this text, which provides a lasting solution for these people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are, of course, very pleased and pleased that the proposal before us was dealt with very quickly by the committee. We have already indicated in committee that we supported the proposal and we will do so in plenary. However, we regret that it has taken so long for the legislative proposal to be brought forward, but it has been done thanks to the continued appeal of the Federal Ombudsman. Fortunately, he was heard, and perhaps it is also a lucky coincidence that the government has fallen; otherwise we might have debated this for a number of years. It is the most vulnerable group in our society. For these people, every euro counts, especially in view of the tight budget with which they have to do it. At the same time, we must not be blind to a number of structural problems in the public service DG Persons with disabilities, such as the long waiting period for an allowance or a parking card. The service is not optimal either. This is evident from the contacts with the competent services, which really need to be made more accessible. We believe that the citizen should not be the victim, and we therefore call for the Social Affairs Committee to deal quickly with our bill No. 3352 on the procedure for dealing with the files on allowances to persons with disabilities with a view to avoiding the undue loss of rights by persons with disabilities. As has already been said, we will support the present legislative proposal, but we are pressing for the legislative proposal to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u81	Mr President, I thank Mrs Lanjri for her presentation and her text. I will draw your attention to two elements. This text is the result of a proposal today, after six years of constant reminders from the Federal Ombudsman that there is a concern. The Ombudsman had already made recommendations to prevent the rights of persons with disabilities from being violated - as sheltered residential customers, they benefit from the application of the social energy tariff. I would like everyone to pay attention to the fact that we are talking about people, about people who are in situations that give them rights and that they do not benefit from them. Admit that this situation is shocking! The allowance for disabled persons shall be applied retroactively. Today, the same will apply to the social tariff for electricity and gas. Not only does the federal mediator sound the alarm in 2013, the government is aware of this, but from 2014 to 2017, parliamentarians in committee also intervene with the minister, who responds worthless. No, we're not following him! Now what do we do, when two ministerial orders would have been enough to restore rights to people? Fortunately, we are in this particular situation so that we can act. Admit that it is shocking to be at this level and to have to deal with things in this way when we have already denounced the shortcomings. This was not a priority or a concern of the minister in charge of energy. She had the lead on that file and she didn't use it. As I was telling you, it was enough to amend two ministerial orders to change the situation of persons with rights. Admit, ladies and gentlemen, that is disturbing! This is all the more so as, in the course of the proceedings, one realizes that things were very different from one province to another. I don't make a difference between the South or the North because, whatever the situation, the figures were different. We did not have retroactive effect, but in Belgium people had certain rights at certain times and others at other times. It wasn't all filled in the same way. Fortunately, with the proposal tabled today, we are going to solve this problem. Believe that we are very pleased with it. We are thinking particularly of those who are in this situation and who now need to push for relief. We will therefore support the text before us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u83	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2227/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2227/6) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft amending the Programme Act of 27 April 2007 as regards the granting of the social tariff for gas and electricity and amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the costs of applying social tariffs by electricity undertakings and the intervention rules for taking them into account'. The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the programme law of 27 April 2007 with regard to the granting of the social tariff for gas and electricity, and amending the Royal Decree of 29 March 2012 laying down the rules for determining the cost of the application of social tariffs by electricity undertakings and the rules of intervention for their taking over". The bill has 6 articles. The bill has 6 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u85	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u86	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u87	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3372/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3372/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Tim Vandenput, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u91	Mr President, our group will oppose the ratification of this agreement. It is provided for in this agreement with Australia, which has no air relations with Belgium today – but which wants to develop it – that no kerosene tax can be levied. We know that the IATA rules provide that taxes on kerosene are not possible, but during the discussion in committee, our colleague De Vriendt drew attention to the fact that, in an agreement between Belgium and Qatar, it was explicitly provided that a tax could be introduced. That's not the case here. An agreement will therefore have to be renegotiated, which may take months or years. At a time when young people are demonstrating for the climate, we know that the issue of the kerosene tax is extremely relevant for the future. So we do not want to be bound by an agreement that explicitly prohibits any form of kerosene tax.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u92	Our group will abstain in the vote on this draft bill because, like my colleague, Mr Dallemagne, we have found that the agreement will undermine the possibility of levying a kerosene tax. We did not vote against because the negotiations that resulted in the agreement were concluded before the possibility of providing a kerosene tax for intra-European flights was opened at European level. We have also given our abstention to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Our abstention must be understood as a signal to the Foreign Minister. If air transport agreements are still submitted to the Chamber in the future, our group will vote against each of these agreements if there is no possibility of lifting a kerosene tax, especially for short-haul flights within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u93	Mr President, I should like to point out that, for this text and the next one, we agreed. However, we understand, it is clear that we are the first to be in favour of an international agreement – at least, at the European level; ideally, at the global level – imposing a tax on kerosene, since it has been explicitly prohibited by international treaties since 1948. We will therefore do everything we can to ensure that this taxation is implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u94	Mr President, I am not fooled: it is interesting to surf the waves. The problem is that the readings that are made are not correct. First, this agreement dates back to 2012. Secondly, nothing in the agreement prevents taxation on kerosene. So this is a false interpretation, which I regret a little.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u95	Mr President, obviously the minister did not read the agreement. The latter explicitly prohibits any tax on kerosene. This is set out in Article 12.4 of the said Agreement. We call for the implementation of the Qatar Agreement for this agreement. It explicitly states that in the event of an agreement on the taxation of kerosene, such taxation may be automatically applied. Here the problem lies in the need to renegotiate. And the minister has already warned us that Australia is very tough. From the moment we are bound with this agreement, we will not be able to untie ourselves. That is what is problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u96	Of course, I am in favour of introducing such taxation. When this happens, it will obviously have an impact on all bilateral relations and agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u97	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u98	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3396/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3396/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u99	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u101	Mr President, I would just like to say that my comment on the previous draft obviously also applies to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u102	The same is true of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u103	And for everyone! Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3403/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3403/3) The title was amended by the Commission to "draft law approving the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Republic of Benin on air transport, and its Annex, done in Cotonou on 9 January 2018'. The title has been amended by the Commission in "Bill approving the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Republic of Benin on Air Transport, and its Annex, done at Cotonou on 9 January 2018". The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporters are Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Miller. Would you like to speak as such, Mr. Miller?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u107	Mr President, I refer to the written report, but I intend to speak on my behalf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u108	You have the floor, Mr. Miller.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u109	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be quite brief, but it must be made. It seems to me important to highlight two points when considering this bill. The first concerns the content of the project and the second concerns the ILO (International Labour Organization) in general. First of all on the content, as the Minister recalled in committee, the states that have ratified the protocol must report every three years on the progress of its implementation. Our current Belgian legislative arsenal already meets the obligations imposed by the Protocol. We can legitimately rejoice in that. States that have not ratified it must respond annually to questions addressed to them by the ILO. These issues include the development of a national action plan. As our excellent colleague, Jean-Jaques Flahaux – he spoke and made the point – pointed out in committee, we can therefore hope in the long term for a positive overall development, particularly with regard to the effective abolition of forced labour. We welcome that. The second point of my brief speech concerns the importance of the International Labour Organization and its achievements. Indeed, I recall that the ILO is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year, since it was established in Geneva in 1919 and has become a special agency of the United Nations since 1946. As you know, this organisation has emerged from the Versailles peace negotiations because "a universal and lasting peace can only be founded on the basis of social justice, that is, it is impossible without decent treatment of workers". It is a sentence that appeals to all of us because it was this comment that presided over the establishment of the ILO. I will also quote U.S. President Roosevelt, who said in 1941: "At the time, the ILO was still a dream. Who had then heard of governments that would meet to strengthen international labour standards? The idea of involving the people involved – workers and employers from different countries – with governments to determine these labour standards was even bolder." At the time of the end of the First World War, the ILO did not arouse great enthusiasm among employers. However, some felt that the new tripartite arrangement between government, employers and workers could promote useful cooperation with trade unions in situations where both sides felt that interventionist attempts – we were at the time of Bolshevik Russia – should be contained. Not all trade unions were convinced of the usefulness of the ILO either. Some saw it as an unwelcome collaboration between classes. In spite of this, in a hundred years, the ILO has found its place, its cruising rhythm. It has implemented a set of international standards on the different dimensions of work and the various social components grouped into four groups of core conventions. Conventions on freedom of association for workers and employers and on the right to negotiation; the elimination of all forms of forced labour; the elimination of child labour; and the fourth group on combating all forms of discrimination. All the members of the European Union have ratified all the fundamental conventions. I'm very pleased with that. The next task will be to implement these conventions, to continue the codification of new rights and to make the pacification of labour relations universal. A hundred years ago, the ILO was a pioneer. Today, she must maintain this dynamic in order to grasp the new forms of work and career. The world of work must remain focused on human work. Lifelong learning, support for workers in managing transitions to work, gender equality, rural and informal workers, investments in care and infrastructure, climate adjustment and social protection in the broad sense. The ILO must also be a guarantor - and we have often discussed it with Mrs Grovonius in the Committee on External Relations - of the proper functioning of trade unions and social organisations when international trade agreements are negotiated and adopted. We can be proud that in Belgium, each government has made every effort to make its contribution to this work. Thank you for your attention. I think it was something that had to be recalled, but it was something that some colleagues in the PS didn't seem to appreciate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u110	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u111	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3404/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3404/3) The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation approving the Protocol to the Convention on Forced Labour of 1930 adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 103rd session." The title was amended by the committee in draft law approving the Protocol to the Forced Labour Convention of 1930, adopted in Geneva on 11 June 2014 by the General Conference of the International Labour Organization at its 103rd session." The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u114	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u115	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall speak from my bench and be brief. I want to take this opportunity to show you again the Defence Administration chart, which illustrates the extent to which the MR-N-VA government has pursued a policy that is harmful to Defence personnel. I can give it to you, Mr. Flahaux, if it's too far away. A picture is better than a long speech. We clearly see it as a crushing, under this legislature, of the number of applicants attracted to a military career. Extension of seven years of military career, recourse to all-va outsourcing and permanent questioning of the military status gains are of course reasons for this lack of interest in the military career in recent years. Unfortunately, with this project, unanimously rejected by the four military unions, the new Minister of Defence is part of the steps of his predecessors N-VA in human resources policy – or should I rather say in a policy of destroying vocations? This project plans to increase the two-year performance period for pilots who have completed a conversion on a different type of aircraft than the one on which they were originally trained in order to try to solve the problem of a large departure of pilots attracted by better working conditions in the civilian sector – one can understand that. In our view, the approach developed here once again does not address the substantive issues. Rather than putting in place brakes to stem the hemorrhage, the priority must be to put in place a proactive approach to human resources within Defence, by providing structural and positive solutions, such as revalorization or attractive military conditions, including by stopping always challenging the legitimate achievements of military status. As you will understand, my group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u116	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, obviously I will have another reading than yours. Personally, I am pleased to have been appointed as the rapporteur of this bill. He is the premier of Minister Didier Reynders as Minister of Defence. As the report is complete, I referred to the written version. That being said, the MR considers this bill to be a positive one, which aims to bring the performance period of pilots who have undergone conversion training to a different type of aircraft than the one on which they were first trained. This period is increased from four to six years. This extension is sufficient to provide a sufficient number of co-pilots, captains and pilot instructors for transport aircraft to ensure operationality. As a result, the reimbursement of costs for the training is also phased over six years. This amendment does not apply to pilots on duty today, as outlined in clause 4 of the bill. Minister, the opposition has repeatedly pointed out human resource deficiencies in National Defence, denouncing attrition, recruitment difficulties, etc. It is true that these problems exist. But they were on the agenda before the establishment of the Michel government and Mr Vandeput. Previous ministers have tried to provide solutions to increase the attractiveness of the military career, through remuneration, job content, future prospects, career readability, etc. Colleagues, like all observers, you yourself consider the results of these measures to be insufficient. It is therefore a difficult and important issue. But it is this Michel government that has been able, through the vote and the full implementation of the law of military programming, to undoubtedly increase the attractiveness of the department. It was he, too, who, by stopping the degressivity of the Defence budget, demonstrated his willingness to invest in the security sector. We can therefore hope that these two strong signals will lead to an increase in the number of new arrivals. In any case, it is our hope, our wish and our will for the MR. That is why we will be voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u117	Mr President, I would like to say that this government and the previous one are announcing investments for the future, because the military programming law provides that no euro will be spent under this legislature. It's always easy to spend other people's money without knowing who these others will be!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u118	Mr President, I would like to remind Mr Fernandez Fernandez that there are orders. I will not list all the files, but I think I remember that there were some opponents on a number of investment files that have already started. So not everything is postponed to the next legislature. With this draft bill, which was signed by Minister Vandeput, we want to combat the spill-over to the Defense Department. That's not unimportant, because that's a pain point. What we are doing here is neither more nor less than extending the reimbursement period for training costs from four to six years. That is what is proposed. I am surprised that the PS and, I fear, also the sp.a vote against it. We're just trying to stop the outflow, because we find that a lot of pilots are trained by the Defense Department and then switch to the commercial sector. It's surprising to see that you're so opposed to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u119	Mr President, I will only speak once. I simply did not hear the figures of the commitments under this legislature. I repeat, it will be under the next one. Furthermore, for information purposes, the current proposal was rejected by the four military unions. This may be a sign that this provision does not exactly meet the expectations of the military.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u120	Mr. Chairman, I rise to say that my group is also opposed to this bill. The first reason is that I asked the minister in committee to obtain figures on this problem of attrition. However, we have not received any. In other words, we are being asked to vote on a bill to resolve a problem on which we have no objective information. There was no indication as to the number of pilots leaving, their difficulties, etc. Secondly, when Parliament has to decide on additional coercive measures imposed on the military, it needs to refer to the principle of proportionality and whether the provisions are appropriate. The Minister referred to the strategic vision. However, if you read the description, you will find that nowhere is there any mention made of the attrition of pilots. That is why I cannot vote for a text which places additional pressure on them, especially since, in order to compensate for it, no revalorisation is planned. When I asked the minister about this, he told me that a flight simulator had been purchased. I mean, it's still a little crazy! I hope our pilots are trained to fly! This cannot therefore be regarded as a measure of reclamation. For all these reasons, we will not be able to approve this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u121	Colleagues, I will supplement what Mrs Fernandez Fernandez said. I find that a good company provides motivated staff. This is what a company does to achieve its objective. In the private sector, this is: working efficiently and efficiently to make profits. The same applies in the public sector: working efficiently and efficiently with scarce resources. This is done with motivated staff and adequate staff. The staff must be motivated, inter alia by his remuneration and his status, but also by good challenges in the position, by future prospects and by the respect of the chief, of the superior, of the employer. Colleagues, it is well known that the DOD has a major problem in finding and maintaining adequate personnel. On the basis of the proposal now before us, with a view to extending the pilots' return period, the government clearly did not understand that. If one wants to increase the attraction of the job as a military one, one has to tackle it globally. The whole organisation must be evaluated and adjusted in different ways. In terms of remuneration, for example, in terms of statute, in terms of development and flow, in terms of work equipment, in terms of organisation, and in terms of respect for the military. Colleagues, what we now have is symptom control. Here the group of pilots is now being tackled to keep them 'obligatory' for at least longer with the Defense Department, or to recover at least the training costs. The figures of the attrition were not even given to us in committee, as my colleague said earlier. We don't even know if there's a problem. What's the possible consequence? There may be a reduction in entry when the conditions of accession are increased, there is no consideration of the appreciation of the military and there will be less motivated staff, because those who want to go away will have to stay longer. Conclusion: Less motivated staff leads to less efficient and efficient work. The final conclusion to this bill is that the real structural problems in the defence sector are not being addressed. For all these reasons, my group will not approve this bill. In fact, I expected more from the Minister in his first draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat a few comments from the committee in response to Mr Top's remarks. Mr Top spoke of 'a good undertaking'. I believe that the Minister wishes to align this measure with what is happening in private. As an aircraft engineer, I am well placed to know what happens, for example, in the case of airlines. Pilot training shall be provided by those airlines. The time limits for pilots to fly for those airlines are six, seven or eight years. In the Far East it sometimes lasts up to ten years. With this bill, we're bringing Defense into line with what's happening in private. Mr Top talked about scarce resources. If a pilot decides to leave Defense, isn't it our right, as a good company and as a guardian of taxpayers' money, to recover a piece of what the Belgian government has invested in that pilot? That is the essence of leading a good company with scarce resources. When I hear that this measure does not fit into a larger picture, I think that this is completely wrong, Mr Top. This is a really good measure to align the defense with what has been happening in private for a long time. I would like to say the following about the appreciation. I know a lot of pilots inside of DOD. The appreciation we give them is new equipment purchases. I'm talking about the A400M or the new F-35s coming up. With these devices, the pilots can focus on their jobs competitively and safely. That is appreciation, Mr Top. That's how we see the development of Defense. We think this is a very good measure and we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u123	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, I do not think you have listened carefully. I have just said that it must be a package of measures. The problems in the Defense Department have been going on for a long time. There's too little influx and the attrition is too big. And this is partly due to the remuneration, status, challenges and support of the military in the field. A set of measures is needed. And now there will be a bill with one point, namely extending the time limit for pilots. If this extension could be presented to the military and trade unions as a final point in a global plan, it would perhaps be accepted because there is a whole series of conditions attached to it. That is not the case here. One measure has been taken here and, as I said in committee, this is a sort of penal measure. This doesn't motivate pilots to stay with the Defense Department any longer. And the final result is that they have unmotivated pilots.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u124	Mr President, these are pilots of transport aircraft. This is to increase the performance period for pilots who followed a conversion to Defence costs on an aircraft other than the type for which they were trained. It is not a question of taking pilots hostage or punishing them. By analogy with all members who are undergoing training at defence expense, there is a performance period that is imposed, which is normal. This is a conversion on a different type of aircraft than the one for which the person was originally trained. This conversion, or further training, is clearly linked to the attractiveness, contrary to what I have heard, since the person concerned acquires additional qualifications which he will be able to valorise or to make use of later. I believe that this measure is necessary - beyond attractiveness - for operationality, since civil companies recruit military pilots under attractive conditions, but the increase in the two-year performance period avoids jeopardizing the relationship between the number of co-pilots and the number of captains and instructors. I would remind you that at present, the return period after conversion lasts four years. After conversion, it takes three years to become a captain. The yield period is therefore de facto limited to one year. Then becoming a line trainer lasts a year. At this point, the pilot can act as an instructor for a few simple tasks and this is an intermediate step towards the instructor qualification in the entire meaning of the term. Then becoming a pilot instructor lasts another year. If you want to do all this in four years, it seems to me extremely difficult. That is why a pilot who has been a co-pilot for three years must be able to take three more years as a captain. This justifies a total performance of six years, necessary to achieve the ratio between the co-pilots and the captains.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u125	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u126	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3389/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3389/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u127	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u128	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u129	Mr President, you will allow me to summarize in this Chamber the committee report on an important piece of legislation aimed at parliamentary ratification of the cooperation agreement which the Committee on Infrastructure, chaired by Mrs Lalieux, discussed on 16 January. We are therefore in the context of a ratification of a cooperation agreement which gives concrete expression to the so-called "virtuous billion" which will enable the work of the RER to be relaunched and completed, it is hoped, but also to respond to regional priorities in the field of rail transport. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to summarize the dynamic and rich debates that have taken place in your committee. Minister Bellot initiated this cooperation agreement which he negotiated with his colleagues in the Flemish Region, Mr Weyts, the Walloon Region, Mr Di Antonio and the Brussels Capital Region, Mr Smet. This negotiation on a policy as important as that of mobility was a real tour de force for the minister. The previous cooperation agreement, as you pointed out in the presentation, dates back to 2001 and dealt with the ER. Since the multi-year plan ended in 2012, it had not been possible to complete the work of the RSP. This House had then observed, under this legislature, the cessation of the work of the RER. The same Chamber had requested an audit from the Court of Auditors. I'll talk about it again. This audit was very important and focused on the status of the PER. It has also made it possible, through the new cooperation agreement, to change a number of arrangements. There is no need to recall the importance of the ER and regional priorities for the train. This cooperation agreement makes it possible to sustain the billion of federal State borrowing which the minister calls "virtuous". We dare to believe it. This virtuous loan is a loan aimed, on the one hand, at relaunching and completing the work of the RER and, in particular, the last lines to be completed (lines 124 and 161) and, on the other hand, at responding to regional requests for investment in rail. I would point out here that, with regard to the RER, the cooperation agreement validates the Walloon decision to use the pre-financing of Gosselies and the remaining pre-financing of Louvain-la-Neuve to make them available for the work of the RER, but also allows, in the absence of a management contract, SNCB and, above all, Infrabel to dispose of this money and to implement it with the effective relaunch of the RER's work. Mr Minister, you have drafted a cooperation agreement text based on new arrangements introduced by the Sixth State Reform. You have completed the general cooperation agreement that you have negotiated with the Regions, which is quite rare and difficult in our federal state, and you have ensured that it can be applied through cooperation agreements or rather implementing agreements that they will not be ratified by parliaments. This is about very complex modalities that I will not summarize here, Mr Miller, because it would take too long, agreements that are sometimes bilateral, trilateral or multilateral. This sometimes gives us the impression that we are part of an international policy. But no, it is indeed Belgium, Minister. So you negotiated as a diplomat with the different regions and you made sure that these negotiations ended just before Christmas. You managed to relaunch the negotiations with Brussels capital which had not yet signed the cooperation agreement, which was finally done for the benefit of the whole RER project. I would also like to say that, in the course of the work carried out, you explained the change in key 60/40, following the Court of Auditors' proposal that an annual application had caused the work to be delayed. The more flexible application over several years with a validation process would also allow for more flexibility. Finally, you also provided in the Cooperation Agreement for the fact that, from Article 3, you can ensure the maintenance of the entire network in particular for low-density lines of population without any kilometre of railway line necessary for traffic being removed. This is a very important element of the cooperation agreement. Secondly, in the various stages which you have had to take in order to have the whole cooperation agreement adopted, we must mention: the Concertation Committee - which adopted this cooperation agreement at first and second reading - the Executive Committee of Ministers for Mobility (ECMM) - which met several times and which has validated - the Council of State and, lastly, the Concertation Committee which was finally able to adopt this text before it came before these committees and the plenary session of Parliament. In the general discussion, the various groups supported your cooperation agreement. Mrs De Coninck regretted the lack of regionalisation of rail and also asked a number of questions on co-financing of the regions, on the capacity of the federal state in day-to-day affairs to implement the cooperation agreement. On behalf of the Socialist Group, Mr Laurent Devin welcomed the implementation of the RER and the use of this virtuous billion in favour of integrating the RER into a general mobility process. Mr. Jean-Jaques Flahaux, on the same line as Mr. Devin (which may have contributed to this unanimity of views because you were really on the same line that day), insisted on the increase in the number of very large travellers, more than 3% additional shares. Mr. Van den Bergh also asked a number of questions and stressed in particular the relevance of Article 3 on the protection of rural areas. Ms Ljinen for Open Vld also welcomed the implementation of the RER. I myself, on behalf of the Ecolo-Groen Group, have asked you a number of questions concerning the application of this cooperation agreement over the period of time. In your replies - and this is important for parliamentary work - you have been able, Mr. Minister, to clarify a number of points: firstly, the fact that the amounts were already available and that the work was therefore able to resume, and secondly, that the responsibility for the loan lies with the federal State and, in particular, that it is from the federal State that the available money will be made available there. You have also re-explained the evolving regional distribution key - which I mentioned earlier - the maintenance of the rail network, the information during the duration of the work and the need to involve the steering committee provided for in the cooperation agreement. All this will also have to be followed by a new adaptation of the cooperation agreement on the study on mobility, in particular multimodal mobility, which is a pivotal element. Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore on the basis of all these details, of these discussions, and after this rich debate, that your committee, under the chairmanship of Mrs Lalieux, adopted this text unanimously – it is quite rare. I wanted to end with a little free input from the rapporteur, quoting Mark Twain: "They didn't know it was impossible, so they did." Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to do so earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u130	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the text we are about to vote on, which concerns the completion of the ER - which we have been waiting for years - as well as the work on strategic railway infrastructure, seems to us to be a blessing. As a reminder, as early as 2009, the Court of Auditors had stressed that successive ministers knew that the ER would suffer from a lack of funding. It is in response to this situation that the Council of Ministers of 31 March 2017 decided, on your proposal, on essential provisions for rail, through the provision of one billion current euros in order to complete the RER infrastructure projects as provided for in this Agreement and to build other strategic railway infrastructure. The vote on this text will make it possible to put them into practice and ensure that this will is sustained. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Marcel Cheron for his comprehensive and objective report. I will not go into the details, but it should be stressed, for example, that the application of the 60/40 key will be calculated on a multiannual basis, thus preventing in the future any potential carry-over...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u131	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u132	Madam President, I think you're interested in this subject... I was therefore saying that, in this way, any potential delay in the work would be avoided. The discussions in the Committee on Infrastructure show a common will to join this project. Indeed, as has been said, unanimity has been achieved. This shows that your initiative, Minister, to relaunch the Ministerial Committee of Ministers of Mobility demonstrates the importance of coordination, cooperation and synchronization between them. If the discussions were not easy - the least we can say - you have made possible an essential agreement to achieve more efficient mobility and rail network. The allocation for five years to SNCB and Infrabel amounts to EUR 13.8 billion, or about 2.8 billion per year. At the beginning of the legislature, the government had asked companies to make 1.2 billion savings over the five years of the legislature. These savings were realized while business productivity was improved, without affecting supply - on the contrary: 72 additional trains in and around Brussels were set up in December 2016. In addition, during the December 2017 transport plan, the supply was further increased by 5.1%. Minister, the decisions you made result in an increase in the number of travellers by 3.6% in 2017 and 3.7% in 2018; these increases have been unprecedented for 15 years. Moreover, the first effects of modernising the operation of SNCB and Infrabel companies are evident in the operating accounts of the two companies which generate profit margins for the first time since their division. You have asked that these margins be devoted to new services, for the benefit of travellers. Your action marks a real turning point in mobility, with a growing share of rail transport. The numbers are here. I am convinced that the release of this virtuous billion, in addition to the 4.3 billion investments planned for the legislature, is a response to the climatic challenges of mobility and efficiency. As soon as yesterday, a party president, speaking on a public channel, indicated that the ideal would be an investment of one billion a year for SNCB. This objective has already been exceeded. In particular, Mrs Dutordoir and Mr Lallemand indicated, 15 days ago in committee, that they were not in a position to spend more money than they had been given. Note that an essential element is included in this cooperation agreement. In important Article 3, "the Parties undertake to ensure the maintenance of the entire network, in particular areas with low population density without any railway kilometres necessary for traffic being removed". I can also say that there are projects for almost 100 km. Mr Minister, you are thus giving the rural world a guarantee that it is the subject of your full attention, as are the large agglomerations. Ladies and gentlemen, dear chairman of the committee, at the end of this cooperation agreement and thanks to the virtuous billions, the rail network will see an extension of new routes. On the other hand, I would like to point out that over the last three years the minister has opened six new stations, without closing any, demonstrating once again that the information mentioned by the same party president yesterday was wrong. Colleagues, this decision reflects the federal government's commitment to make mobility, especially rail mobility, one of its priorities. This government thus embodies the will of many citizens to organize our mobility in a different way, that is to say in a more sustainable and therefore more railway way. I am pleased that together, and with the widest possible majority, we can bring this agreement to fruition, by thanking you, Minister, for the implementation of this law of cooperation. To conclude on a slightly lighter note, I would like to paraphrase a chronicle published in a great daily this morning. This is La Libre Belgique. This morning, a journalist presented mobility as the black spot of Belgians' feelings. She went on to wonder if this means that François Bellot is the minister of national happiness. Colleagues, this project is undoubtedly a beginning of an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have found the synthesis of the rapporteur and eminent colleague Marcel Cheron completely complete. That is why I am not going to add anything on the substance, except to underline the importance of this dossier. Mr. Flahaux, I guarantee I've been listening to you for four years. When you're committee chair, you can't get up, you can't talk, for hours and hours. Don't worry, I know your speech. I am always attentive to all the speeches made by all the Members of my committee. I will reassure all the other Members. The RER does not concern rural areas. We won't go so far, Mr. Flahaux. I had the impression that it was the song of Mr. Bellot's swan, but I guess he'll stay for a few more months, until the end of this resigned government, and maybe a long time later. We don't know the future. As Mandela would say, to answer Mr Cheron – it was my dear colleague Mr Delizée who blew it to me: "It always seems impossible until it is done."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u134	Mr President, perhaps I would like to clarify to Mrs Lalieux. The cooperation agreement does not concern only the RER. It covers all financing. Article 3 refers to many rural areas. Why did we put it here? I have proposed this, and this has been accepted by the Regions, because a cooperation agreement has a much greater force than any other act. A management contract may be revised by the following year. During the entire period of implementation of the cooperation agreement, it will be impossible, in Belgium, to dismantle the smallest metre of railway line operated. I also pay attention to the fact that at the end of the cooperation agreement, and in the strategic plan, it is planned to add 100 kilometres of new roads to the existing ones. I think that since the 1980s, with the rail restructuring we know, this is the first time that 100 kilometres of track will be added to the existing network. This will take place mainly around Brussels, but not only; in the north and south of the country as well. For example, next week work begins on the south side of Belgium, which is the furthest away from Brussels. In addition, two months ago important work began on the Hamont-Weert side where there is also a question of doubling the tracks. That is the meaning of the article that has been inserted. It may be outside the scope of the RER design, but it was intended to provide guarantees as to the integrity of the existing rail network, which will definitely cut the ambitions of some to reduce the existing network here and there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u135	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3413/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3413/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u138	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 606: Nathalie Muylle, Jef Van den Bergh, Leen Dierick - 2038: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Deseyn and Mrs Smaers. They shall refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u140	Mr President, my group welcomes two aspects of this project. First, there is the intensification of the fight against fraud and tax evasion. A series of measures are being taken and some of the recommendations of the Panama Papers Commission are being implemented. Then there is the implementation of this agricultural back-carry. My colleague Caroline Cassart had tabled a proposal and she was joined by other Members. It is known that the agricultural sector is in difficulty and is subject to a series of climatic hazards. The advantage of carrying back is that it allows for the recovery of losses in previous and not later years, which makes it possible to anticipate the possible refund of taxes. This bill is really very interesting and we will support it with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u141	Mr President, I would like to endorse what Benoit Piedboeuf says. The draft is initially a translation of part of our work into the special committee "Panama Papers." This committee has made a number of recommendations, which have already led to the adoption of several resolutions. The present draft makes some aspects of the fight against fraud more operational. For example, some financial provisions relating to tax avoidance will be introduced. The result is not yet what we in the Panama Papers Committee had hoped for, but it is already a step forward. Secondly, the design responds to a question that has lived in the agricultural and horticultural sector for many years. A carry-back system is now being set up to protect farmers and horticulturalists, for example in years of weather problems, food safety problems or losses due to increased competition from third countries. The draft law allows us to anticipate losses or to spread the costs over several years, which we meet the demand of this sector, which is dependent on different circumstances. The legislative proposals by Mrs Muylle and Mr Van den Bergh from our group and Mrs Cassart from the MR found their translation into the broader bill. We are therefore very pleased that we can vote on this today. In favour of the agricultural and horticultural sector, the Finance Commission approved the proposal to reduce VAT on plants the day before yesterday. This proposal is not equally positive in government circles. However, the reduction of VAT on plants is an incentive for the horticulture sector. The budgetary implications are between EUR 19 million and EUR 30 million, but I am convinced that this reduction in VAT will stimulate the dynamics of the sector, which will make this measure pay for itself. In the same sense, I believe that the carry-back system will ensure stability in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, as the profession of agricultural and horticultural workers has become very uncertain, also with few start-ups, young farmers and horticulturalists, just because of the many risks. We have now developed a system, as Mr Piedboeuf said, to spread possible losses over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u142	Mr President, let me begin by saying that our group will support this bill. There are a number of, although very limited, measures in the fight against tax fraud. We will, of course, support them. I would particularly like to take the floor to express my disappointment. We have just heard the chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Van Rompuy, who rightly refers to the Panama Papers Committee. We have spent almost a year in that committee working on conclusions and recommendations. These 132 recommendations were adopted here at the end of October 2017. We are 15 months away today. If we then see what the government is coming to this Parliament with today, that is truly disappointing. We have had previous discussions on this during Question Time on Thursday afternoon in plenary. It was with the former Minister of Finance at the time. When it appeared that two measures had been removed from the preliminary draft implementing the recommendations of the Panama Commission, which the committee had nevertheless included as a recommendation. It was about the whistleblower scheme and the penalty for non-cooperation in tax control. We shall be voting in favour of what we have here today, but it is very disappointing that, after 15 months, we will not get any further than this. For me, this is proof that this government is not really serious about tackling tax fraud, but I can also repeat that every month. Unfortunately, it doesn't bring much to the dike. A second point I would like to raise is that we have tabled five amendments to this text, which we have also discussed in committee. The reason why we are submitting them today is because I want to have a roll-call vote on it. I want to know clearly the position of every representative of the people who gives his opinion on the five amendments we are tabling. The first amendment concerns the reduction of the VAT rate on the supply of electricity to household customers. We discussed this in committee this week, but it was voted out. I am submitting it again today, as I have said, so that others in this House can take a joint and several decision on it. It will undoubtedly be useful for us in the debates before the next elections to know who was in favour and who was against. The second amendment concerns the cliquet system for diesel, the increase in excise duties, in other words. The amendment we are tabling deletes the legal basis of the cliquet system on diesel. Such a tax is, after all, very regressive and particularly affects the lowest income. A third amendment concerns the reduction of the VAT rate on a number of medical devices such as glasses and contact lenses. I will not repeat the figures today, but when we see them, it is clear that a number of people cannot afford the cost of glasses and contact lenses today. They cannot therefore provide for their children. The reduction in VAT from 21 % to 6 % is appropriate here. This week, in the Finance Committee, we approved a reduction of 21% to 6% for gardeners buying plantings. Here we are talking about people who need glasses or contact lenses and for them we should at least do the same. The fourth element concerns the abolition of the diamond system. Parliament approved that system some time ago. The official argument of the majority for the diamond system was that the diamondaires actually paid too little tax. The diamond system was intended to increase the taxes paid by the diamondaires, but it has now become clear from the financial year 2016, as the press has said, that the majority of the diamond system introduced last year represents a tax advantage for 80% of the companies concerned. Not a tax increase, but a tax advantage. Let us be consistent with ourselves. Then we thought it would be more taxes for the diamond sector, but now it turns out that the opposite is the case. It is therefore high time to abolish this favourable system for the diamond sector and subject the sector to the tax regime that applies to every Belgian and every one of us. The last amendment we tabled concerns the tax on securities accounts. With the amendment we want to respond to a comment by the Council of State on an unjustified distinction between registered shares held in a stock register and registered shares held in a securities account. We want to eliminate this distinction by means of the amendment. In other words, we wish to close a loophole. When we talk about tax fraud, we must ensure that the loopholes that may be established are closed. Mr President, I would like to conclude with these remarks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u143	Mr President, we supported the vast majority of the articles in this text, in particular the system of exemption from tax on exceptional aid to so-called carry back farmers, the measures taken by the Panama Papers Committee to combat tax fraud, in particular the correction of a first text which had been adopted by the majority and which we had at the time tried to amend on the implementation of the ATAD directive. On the other hand, in the final vote we abstained on Articles 2 and 3 of the text, which do not relate to the fight against tax fraud but constitute a budgetary tool to postpone obligations linked to the harmonisation of workers' and employees' statutes, which is an old agreement, but in relation to which public finances had to bear a cost of 250 million smoothed over five years. I would just like to say a word in response to Mr Piedboeuf's satisfaction with the government's record of combating tax fraud. As I said, there are a number of interesting provisions in this text and as such we supported them when the articles were voted on. However, there are still some interesting recommendations, Minister, made by the Panama Papers Committee, which are still not being implemented at this stage. I am thinking in particular of the bank oath on which a bill is currently under discussion in the Finance Committee or of the experimental system of support for whistleblowers that has not been implemented in this law, when I think that was the initial intention of the government. Among the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee there are also more problematic recommendations that we do not want to be implemented because they are the opposite of the fight against tax fraud. Fortunately, they are not included in this text. Minister, I would like to remind you of some priorities in the fight against tax fraud and financial crime that are not met today. On the one hand, the human and regulatory means of combating tax fraud are insufficient, particularly in view of the services which are required to react and deal with increasingly complex cases. On the other hand, it seems to me that the Anticipated Decisions Service has a disproportionate power over the way in which certain tax cases are dealt with. There is a contradiction between the analyses carried out by field officers and the sometimes too wide authorizations granted by the Anticipated Decisions Service with a much too weak control capacity on these advance decisions which, sometimes, can have a very significant negative impact on public finances. In my view, our tax system is generally far too lax about certain control dimensions. The latest studies show that the money that should return to the state's coffers (if everyone assumed their tax obligations correctly), but that does not come back, represents a very large amount of money each year in tens of billions of euros. Many efforts are yet to be made. This will remain a priority for the Ecolo-Groen Group in the future in order to achieve more tax justice in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u144	Mr President, the draft law is already an important step forward in the light of further measures to implement the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee. Mr Vanvelthoven, we are not here yet. We also want to take further steps to implement the committee's recommendations. We therefore fully support the draft law. You have tabled five amendments. The first two amendments concern the reduction of VAT on electricity and the deletion of the legal basis for the cliquet system. These amendments do not really seem to me to be aimed at combating tax fraud. On the other hand, we have had an important climate debate today. Well, these measures do not really promote eco-taxality. I understand that your starting point is purchasing power, but you are not proposing sensible measures if we want to move towards more eco-taxality. On the one hand, you are calling for more and better climate action, but on the other hand you are proposing measures that are supposedly designed to combat tax fraud, which they do not aim to do, nor do they contribute to eco-taxality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u145	Mrs Smaers, I would like to respond briefly to your claim that our proposals are contrary to what is being discussed in the climate march. Firstly, the yellow shirts also express a certain displeasure in society. It is about the fact that certain people, including in our country, are no longer able to pay their invoices. Secondly, as far as the green hoops are concerned, it is clear that we believe that green measures must be taken at a higher pace than the government that has done in recent times. That is what we agree on, but that this should not only be paid for by the middle class and the people who are struggling. When I hear you speak, it is almost as if your decision from four or five years ago to increase VAT from 6% to 21% was an environmental measure. That was a purely financial measure to get the budget through. That's what it was about then, so don't turn that around today. Environmental measures are needed, but please let us think carefully so that they do not create new divisions in society between the losers and those who can afford them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u146	Mr President, I welcome most of the provisions contained in this text. There is the implementation of some of the Panama Commission's recommendations. We will have to go further because the fight against tax evasion will never be over. Nevertheless, progress has been made and it is to be welcomed. I particularly welcome the measure concerning the agricultural and horticultural sectors. It will undoubtedly bring a balloon of oxygen to farmers and horticulturalists when they are penalized by particularly adverse weather conditions. That said, it is a tote law which also contains some less satisfactory provisions. I pin the transformation of the Royal Mint of Belgium. We are creating a budgetary fund to complete this transformation and I am not sure that this is a happy decision. We could have maintained the Royal Mint of Belgium or reviewed its missions. On this text, we will abstain. On the other hand, I would point out that among Mr Vanvelthoven's proposals for amendments, there are many positive things that we will fully support, in particular the measures relating to security accounts and the proposal to reduce VAT on certain medical equipment. As far as the reduction of VAT on electricity is concerned, we are asking for it. At the same time, a number of considerations cannot be ignored, which must be integrated into the reflection. Is this really a positive measure for the end of the month? Yes, but not entirely, as the analyses show that it is mainly the higher incomes that will benefit and that there will be a negative effect on the indexing mechanism. This would in some way correspond to a mini-stamp index so that those most in need of a reduction in VAT on this basic necessities will not really benefit from it. Is the measure fully beneficial for the climate? There is also a question about this. In my view, it could be if it were accompanied by an ambitious plan to reduce energy consumption, including a plan to isolate buildings. This part should be complementary to a reduction in VAT, but this cannot be implemented in the context of an amendment. It will therefore necessarily be necessary to resume the discussion in order to imagine measures which allow both to respond to the difficulties in terms of purchasing power of the most deprived and to achieve the climate objective with, in particular, a plan to renovate and isolate buildings, as my colleague Michel de Lamotte has long called for. This will probably be postponed to the next legislature, all the more so – we must be honest – since the proposed measure to reduce VAT on electricity is not without a budgetary impact. The latter is estimated at EUR 700 million. It's a heavy decision. I would remind you that we do not have a budget and that we are in provisional twelfths. This is probably not the most appropriate context for taking such a responsibility. It would therefore be necessary to hold a further debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u147	The various interventions gave a good overview of the provisions contained in this draft law on tax, fraud, financial as well as various provisions. I highlight a number of measures in the fight against fraud. I hear certain groups say: is this all that has emerged from the work on the Panama Papers? Of course, not everything is in this bill. A number of chapters dealt with criminal proceedings, a number of issues related to organisational aspects within the police, the statute and liability of tax service providers and so on. A number of issues have also already been included through parliamentary initiatives. I would like to point out, however, that raising the time limits for investigations to ten years when legal constructions are used is a very important step forward. The fact sheet obligation for income linked to a foreign company receiving a Belgian employee or manager is also a measure that will limit an important source of fraud from 2019. Others also talked about the carry back, a measure that I fully support. For agricultural activity, the climate impact becomes very unpredictable. This measure helps our businesses and farmers to get through difficult times better. But I am very pleased that we can still approve this here in Parliament, because it contains a number of important provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u148	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u149	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3424/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3424/4) The draft law has 110 articles. The bill has 110 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u150	• 32 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (3424/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u151	• 34 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (3424/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u152	• 36 • Peter Vanvelthoven cs (3424/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u153	Sustained: the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u154	Article adopted by article: 1 to 110
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u155	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u156	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf et Steven Vandeput.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u157	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u158	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u159	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3408/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3408/4) The draft law has 16 articles. The bill has 16 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u160	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u161	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u162	Mr President, I will make a small report and an intervention. I am the only one who spoke on this text. He was introduced to us by the Minister of Finance. It is a very important text, since it organizes a form of automated recovery of maintenance claims, which are treated as tax debts and can therefore be automatically recovered, over time, by the FPS Finances, and returned to debtors, who are most often debtors. This is a very positive measure to improve the functioning of the Maintenance Claims Service for the benefit of children's education. I am the only one who spoke on this text by expressing my support and by insisting – and I will do it again here, Minister – on the means to be given to this FPS Finance service and to this issue in general. Indeed, a series of decentralized SECAL offices have been closed and the number of FPS Finance officials working on them has been reduced. The statutory annual report has not been published for a very long time. For a very long period of time, the SECAL support committee has not been renewed; it has been renewed recently. I hope that the vote on this text is the signal of a reinvestment of the federal state in this important service. I think the principle of automation of debt recovery is very positive. It must allow us, in the long run, to raise the ceilings. You had this debate earlier with our PS colleague, Mrs Winckel. I have noted with interest your openness on this issue, Minister. It was also dealt with this week in committee. Two Bills on the subject have been introduced by the PS and the CDH. The Commission has agreed to hear from you in the coming weeks on the practical implications of raising or removing ceilings. I hope that we will be able to reach a conclusion within the next ten weeks, with your support, to complete the text voted on today. That would be very positive for the rights of women and children involved in maintenance claims.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u163	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet has stressed twice that he spoke alone. We did not do so because we proposed the adoption of the text. SECAL was created to address this risk of poverty due to the non-payment of maintenance claims. In this case, this is an improvement for the recovery of advances of funds. We therefore welcome this, of course. We support this project. It was not necessary to intervene on the subject in committee since we were defending the project by depositing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u164	Mr President, it goes without saying that my group will also support this project. I would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Finance to echo the discussion we had in committee yesterday afternoon. In fact, I was given the opportunity to defend, on behalf of the CDH, a bill to raise the ceilings for access to SECAL services. A first increase in these ceilings occurred in 2014, from EUR 1,400 to EUR 1,800. Our proposal aims to gradually raise this ceiling to EUR 2 500. I have learned from yesterday's discussion that there is interest in this initiative. Ms. Winckel's intervention confirmed, if necessary, the need to assist these single-parent families. They are often women who are exposed to insecurity or even poverty when they do not receive maintenance due. One in six children is vulnerable. There is a compelling need for this. We have agreed in committee to question you, Minister, in order to obtain your opinion and that of SECAL on this increase in the ceilings. What impact could this increase have in terms of number of beneficiaries? I would like to urge you to receive your views as soon as possible so that, as soon as possible, we can come back to this question and respond through this measure to this problem of precariousness and poverty affecting single-parent families. I would like to thank you for paying attention to the opinion which the Chairman of the Committee on Finance will not fail to convey to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u165	Mr Minister, there have actually only been statements of support, but I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u166	Mr President, I would like to point out what we are talking about here. This draft law ensures that the enforceable titles can be automated. This is an important aspect, because in order to make DAVO financially stronger and reduce losses, the recovery of the funds is, of course, a very important element. I spoke this afternoon about raising the thresholds. A study is underway and when taking action, it is necessary to make sure that they really help. Being able to implement this modernization and automation is an important condition for further action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u167	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u168	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3411/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3411/3) The draft law has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u169	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u170	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Dirk Van der Maelen, Wouter De Vriendt, Alain Top. The Committee on External Relations proposes that the motion for a resolution be rejected. (2672/2) The clerk on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (2672/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u171	Mr President, unfortunately, at the beginning of November last year, the Committee on External Relations rejected the motion for a resolution before us today in plenary. I will not repeat the arguments I put forward in committee. I have certainly waited until today because I knew that before the end of January, the United States' highly respected association of nuclear scientists evaluates the threat of nuclear weapons in the world with the so-called Doomsday Clock. Well, last week, this association of atomic scientists set the clock at two to twelve. Never before has the great wiser been closer to twelve than this year. I will not quote all the arguments used by the association; I will confine myself to three of them. The Association of Atomic Scientists has established that in 2018, unfortunately, all nuclear states together spent $100 billion on the conservation of the nuclear arsenal. That is two thirds of all expenditure on development cooperation; every year another $100 billion for the maintenance of nuclear weapons! The second argument put forward by the scientists is that the various nuclear weapons states are engaged in very far-reaching modernisation programmes for their nuclear weapons. I do not list them all, but one which should concern our country, namely the modernisation of the tactical nuclear weapons in Kleine Brogel and Florennes. Thirdly, the Association of Atomic Scientists refers to President Trump's announcement on 2 February to withdraw from the medium-range missile treaty, starting with the six-month cancellation period. Colleagues, medium-range missiles are cruise missiles and this was the biggest demonstration ever organized in Belgium in the 1980s. These three reasons, which are the immensely high sums devoted to them, the heavy modernization programmes and the termination of the agreement on medium-range missiles, make the United States' association of nuclear scientists decide to set the clock at two to twelve. Many countries have understood that. In the committee, the number of states that signed the agreement on a nuclear ban negotiated on 7 July 2017 was co-ordinated. Well, more than a year after the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons can be ratified, the state of play is that 20 countries have done so, while 70 have signed it in the meantime. Never before has a nuclear agreement been able to count on an increasing number of associated states. At the beginning of January, the Swiss Parliament decided to call on its government to include Switzerland in the ban on nuclear weapons. The resolution before us today, which I hope you will vote against, provides for the same appeal. In our resolution, we ask the government to endorse that treaty, in consultation and cooperation with other European Member States. We do not just have to do this, but we do not have to do it with all NATO countries or with all the Member States of the European Union. The call's here. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use the Prime Minister's words. You have the opportunity to choose which side of history you are going to be on. Are you going to stand on the side of the nuclear arms race that has started and is going on, or are you going to side with the 70 countries that have decided that nuclear madness must be over? Do we agree with those countries that are seeking to ban nuclear weapons? That choice will be up to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u172	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u173	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, and with the exception of proposal No. I consider it adopted by Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Raf Terwingen who are postponing their request for consideration, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure these proposals are sent to the relevant committees. If there are no comments on this subject and with the exception of proposal No 3477/1 by Mrs Van Hoof and Mr Raf Terwingen, who ask for a postponement of the request to take their proposal into account, I shall consider it to be taken into account and refer the proposals to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Dirk Van der Maelen and Mr Alain Top) amending the Arms Act with a view to banning killer robots, No. 3494/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u174	- the legislative proposal (Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in order to make the granting of humanitarian visas transparent, 3496/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Véronique Waterschoot) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of foreign nationals in respect of the humanitarian visa, No. 3497/1; - the proposal (Mr Georges Dallemagne) to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the manner and circumstances in which humanitarian visas were granted from 2015 to 2018, No. 350/1; - the proposal (Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Eric Thiébaut and Mr Emir Kir) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the procedures for granting humanitarian visas, drawing lessons from this visa waiver in order to prevent any misuse of humanitarian visas, No. 3503/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u175	- the bill (Mr Roel Deseyn and Mr Luk Van Biesen) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to extend the tax shelter to the gaming industry, No. 3501/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u176	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) on the cessation of the call for applications for a fourth operator on the Belgian telecoms market, No. 3502/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u177	I also propose to you the legislative proposal (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down various provisions concerning proprietary medicinal products, watchkeeping services of pharmacists and prophylactic measures relating to poliomyelitis, No. 3504/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u178	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 January 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Dirk Van der Maelen and Alain Top) amending the Act of 8 June 2006 regulating economic and individual activities with weapons with a view to banning killer robots, No. 3494/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u179	- the proposal for a law (Mr Georges Dallemagne) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, aimed at creating transparency in the granting of humanitarian visas, No. 3496/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Véronique Waterschoot) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the access, residence, establishment and removal of aliens with regard to the humanitarian visa, No. 3497/1; - the proposal (Mr Georges Dallemagne) to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the manner and circumstances in which humanitarian visas were granted from 2015 to 2018, No 3500/1; - the proposal (Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Nawal Ben Hamou and MM. Eric Thiébaut and Emir Kir) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the procedures for granting humanitarian visas and to draw lessons from the visagate with a view to preventing the issuance of humanitarian visas from being tainted by any form of misappropriation, No. 3503/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u180	- the bill (MM. Roel Deseyn and Luk Van Biesen) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with a view to extending the tax shelter to the video game industry, No. 3501/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u181	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Olivier Maingain and Mrs Véronique Caprasse) to end the launch of a call for applications for a fourth operator on the Belgian telecommunications market, No 3502/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u182	I also propose that you take into consideration the bill (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens) on various provisions on proprietary medicinal products, keeping pharmacists and prophylactic measures in the field of poliomyelitis, No 3504/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u183	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u184	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgency so that two proposals can be taken into account so that they can be discussed quickly. The first, No. 3496/1, relates to the introduction of transparency in the issuance of humanitarian visas. We have seen, with information on how some have been granted, that there is no transparency in the conditions for granting, the modalities, the criteria and even the people who have been able to benefit from them. It is therefore important to legislate without delay in this area. The hearings of the Office of Foreigners, CGRA and Myria showed that there is no legal basis for ensuring this transparency. We would of course have appreciated the assurance of the former Secretary of State. That was not the case. That is why we are putting forward a proposal for a flexible, but also transparent, mechanism in the future that will enable Parliament to better understand this issue and to assess how the government is acting. In short, I ask for urgency so that we can legislate quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u185	If I understand correctly, you are asking for urgency only for the bill but also, because the two go together...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u186	Mr President, we are urgently calling for a committee of inquiry (No. 3500) because we consider that, at present, the work that has started in the House is certainly useful but far from being sufficient to have full clarity on how the former Secretary of State has acted on the channels, on trafficking in human beings and on extortion of funds that have been exercised against vulnerable persons. We see that work is dragging. We are less than eight weeks away from the useful work of the House. We therefore call for a parliamentary committee of inquiry to be set up so that we can really clarify what has happened. We want to hear from the former Secretary of State. No date has yet been created for this purpose. We want to have access to a whole series of documents so that we can get a clear picture of the malfunctions that have occurred in the granting of humanitarian visas, the extortion of funds that has taken place and the responsibilities of everyone. We call for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. We stress to colleagues in Parliament who may hesitate that there is little time left to act effectively. If we vote urgently, the examination has yet to be done in the Committee on the Interior and it must then be voted on in plenary. It is important not to miss this opportunity to have all the light on how these humanitarian visas were granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a lot of discussions over the last few days and weeks on how humanitarian visas are granted in our country. Most groups are convinced that the current system is not enough. After all, we have seen that it opens the door to abuse and even fraud. There is, I hope, a consensus, based on the reactions of most groups in the press, that something must change. Let us make use of this period of ongoing business, even though we no longer have much time, to begin the legislative process in this area, beyond party boundaries and openly. As it happens, our group has a proposal (No. 3497) which is being considered, just as cdH has done. That might as well have been done by another group. It is not our intention to take our proposal or leave it on the table, but to take it as a starting point for a thorough discussion in order to achieve greater transparency, more regulation, and thus a better outcome on the issue of humanitarian visas. Let us discuss this. Let us take advantage of this period of ongoing business to do so, majority and opposition, whatever the current majority may mean. I think we should just sit together to make this system better. Hence our request for urgent procedure, so that we in Parliament can certainly take a step before the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u188	Mr President, I should like to inform the House that we support the urgent request on the committee of inquiry, as we tabled a text last week. We are pleased that there is a kind of political momentum where different parties want to make all the facts clear. The hearings allow us to move forward. At the end of these, which we wish to support, if it is necessary to move on to a committee of inquiry, we are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u189	Mr President, we support all these proposals; that is obvious!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u190	Mr President, in the same vein, we are asking for the urgency of text No 3503/1 calling for a committee of inquiry. In view of the hearings that took place on Tuesday, we can be certain that a series of humanitarian visas have been issued with a certain opacity, that the agenda for these hearings is not yet defined, at least in its political aspect. We have eight weeks left and we believe that, in order to have an agenda and work effectively, not only to know the truth but also to legislate tomorrow, it is necessary to have a very restrictive framework. This committee of inquiry seems to us to be the right tool. Moreover, it will probably be able to prevent the main political figure of what is known as the visagate from being justified in interviews at the end of the committee while all the other colleagues are doing their parliamentary work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u191	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, in his speech and statement of reasons, said things that were not entirely true. He said that no dates have been set and that the work is not progressing. I can only point out that, two weeks ago, we agreed on what we would do in the course of the work. We also recorded the first dates at that time. Last week, again in the course of the work, we added a number of things to it because additional questions were asked. We did not oppose it, we did not even oppose it. The first meeting, with DVZ, the CGVS and Myria, took place as soon as possible. That was this week. Further substantive discussions on the subject are scheduled for next week. In two weeks' time, on 12 and 13 February, the political section will be discussed, as stated above, with the Minister and with Mr Francken. I note that at that time a parliamentary committee of inquiry was also asked to be set up. At that time there were not so many asking parties for it. Now there's more. There was no agreement on that at the time. I note that the parties who made an opening at that time are now doing the same. I also note that there are things being said that are not consistent with the truth or are rather incomplete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u192	Colleagues, we are dealing here with questions of urgency. This is not a debate on the substance. Anyone could have said what he had to say, as far as the question of urgency was concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u193	Mr President, my colleague claims that I am not telling the truth. This is a personal fact. I am sorry to have to repeat that no date has yet been set for the hearing of the former Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u194	Mr Dallemagne, allow me to point out that Mr Vermeulen referred to that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u195	In addition, I would like us to be able to hear it in a parliamentary committee of inquiry with the powers of investigating judge conferred on it by such a committee. I would also like him to testify under oath. Indeed, I was able to see how the former Secretary of State took liberties with the truth. In short, I would like us to be able to investigate as a parliamentary committee of inquiry permits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u196	Colleagues, there are four questions of urgency, which are basically on the same subject. Another question, Madame Caprasse?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u197	Mr President, I have an urgent request for a motion for a resolution (No 3502) which you mentioned earlier. This is the motion for a resolution to end the launch of a call for applications for a fourth operator on the Belgian telecommunications market in the Proximus case. We believe that this is a real negative point in relation to the socio-economic situation of the company. Proximus' transformation plan provides for the elimination of 1,900 jobs and 1,250 commitments to invest in digital services over a three-year period. This confirms concerns about significant job losses associated with the arrival of a fourth telecommunications operator as desired by the federal government. Noting that this arrival will have other negative effects on our economy and environment, this resolution aims at interrupting the project to launch a fourth operator in the telecommunications sector, replacing it with a policy that favours investment in a changing sector that is already under sufficient pressure. We're asking for urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u198	That was clearly about something else. We first have four requests for urgency on humanitarian visas, but I cannot deal with them at the same time. We shall first give our opinion on the request for urgent procedure for the legislative proposal No. 3496 by Mr Dallemagne. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u199	This result may also apply to the request for urgent procedure for the legislative proposal No. 3497 by Mr De Vriendt? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u200	May this result also apply to the request for urgent procedure for proposal No. 3500 by Mr Dallemagne to set up a committee of inquiry? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u201	May this result also apply to the request for urgent procedure for proposal No. 3503 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez setting up a committee of inquiry? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u202	Mrs Caprasse called for urgent action on motion for a resolution No 3502. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u203	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2227/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2227/7) Mr Koen Metsu voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u204	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 111 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3372/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3372/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u205	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 75 Yes No. [[21]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3396/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3396/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u206	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 75 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3403/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3403/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u207	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3404/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3404/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 77 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3389/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3389/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3413/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3413/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u210	Vote on Amendment No 32 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 31/1(n). (3424/5) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 31/1(n). (3424/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 53 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 130 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 33 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 60/1(n). (3424/5) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 60/1(n). (3424/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 34 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 20 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 60/2(n). (3424/5) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 60/2(n). (3424/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote t is valid for this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u211	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 60/3(n). (3424/5) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 60/3(n). (3424/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 53 Yes No. 73 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 36 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an article 60/4(n). (3424/5) Vote on Amendment No 36 by Peter Vanvelthoven cs to insert an Article 60/4(n). (3424/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 51 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3424/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3424/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3408/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3408/5) Reason for abstinence? (No) Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 128 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3411/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3411/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 73 Yes No. 52 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 2672/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 2672/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-31-54-plenair-ip268x.u216	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 7 February 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 7, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 February 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 7, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
