ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u1	Mr Minister, once again I apologize for not being here last week to ask my question about the War Heritage Institute in Defense. I got here today, though. My question concerns a dossier that has been pending for several years, namely the UN investigation into the death of former Secretary-General Hammarskjöld in September 1961, almost 60 years ago. On 7 October, UN Secretary General Guterres introduced the Final Report of his appointed Eminent Person, Judge Mohamed Chande Othman, on the investigation into the death of the former Secretary-General. On 3 December 2018, Mr Othman already issued an interim report which was not disseminated publicly, except to the countries that had participated in the preparation of the report. I asked you a written question on this matter a few months ago in the summer. However, the final report has now been released to the public. Belgium, of course, has, in the light of its colonial past, had an important input into the investigation in the context of the dossier. The final report deals in detail with the real possibility, according to the UN, and even with the indication that Belgian nationals were directly involved in the incident involving the Hammarskjöld aircraft and its staff. Although the UN research team is very satisfied with the cooperation with the Belgian intelligence services, it notes that there was hardly any information available from the military intelligence service of our country, the ADIV. In recent months and years, the mandate of the Belgian independent senior officials, granted by the Council of Ministers, has focused on consulting the official archives of civil and military intelligence services. I would like to ask you two questions about this, Minister. What have been the precise investigative actions of senior officials appointed by the Federal Council of Ministers and exactly what contribution have they been able to make to the UN investigation? I also have a question for the future. The UN Secretary-General indicates that the investigation is not complete and that the UN will continue its efforts to bring out the full truth. Will Belgium be expected to make new commitments in this area and will the mandate of the officials concerned be extended if necessary, or will the Belgian part be fully completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u2	Mr President, the investigation of the Belgian high-ranking official, Mr Serge Lipszyc, assisted by Mr Kris Quarten, was conducted in complete independence by him. The result was delivered directly by them to Mr Othman, Judge and Eminent Personality appointed by the UN Secretary-General in the Hammarskjöld file. I will not comment on their working methods or on the content of their contribution to Judge Othman's investigation before the UN. That would not be in line with the independence of the researchers that the UN is asking me to respect. Of course, I am pleased to hear that our country is being congratulated by Secretary General Gutteres and by Judge Othman in particular on the depth and volume of work carried out by our independent senior officials. In accordance with the mandate set out in Resolution 72/252 adopted at the General Assembly on 24 December 2017, they conducted a targeted investigation in the archives of the intelligence services, State Security and Defence, in order to determine whether further relevant information exists and to transfer it to the UN Secretary-General. It goes without saying that Belgium will involve these independent senior officials in any new UN request for further cooperation in order to supplement and complete the investigation. That question has not yet been asked. I repeat that our country is fully cooperating with the UN on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u3	Minister, perhaps we will never know what the exact content of the range of action of the mandated senior officials was. Their research is, of course, independent. However, now that we have the final report presented, I thought we could get some more information on that precise range of action. I note that a question for extension is not currently on the agenda but that the Belgian authorities are at their disposal. We'll follow up on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u4	Minister, on 10 October Turkey invaded northeast Syria. According to President Erdogan, that was an operation to neutralize the terrorist threat against Turkey. The attack was directed against the Kurdish armed forces, who fought as ground troops for the Western countries against the Islamic State. The Kurds were crucial to expel the terror group and they lost about 11,000 troops. Despite a ceasefire agreement, there are still fighting between Turkish and Kurdish militias. By the way, the Kurds guarded camps and prisons where IS terrorists and their families were locked up. In addition to the fact that the unannounced raid against all diplomatic and international conventions, the offensive caused the camps and prisons to be destroyed or their surveillance weakened by the attacks. The attacks not only facilitated the release of IS terrorists, but may also lead to new flows of refugees towards Europe. Firstly, the European summit on 14 October discussed the possibility of economic measures or individual sanctions against Turkey. What was finally decided? Are sanctions still possible? Will our country take unilateral sanctions if necessary? Secondly, how many Belgian IS terrorists have disappeared under the radar? How many Belgian IS terrorists have been located? Is there any clarity as to whether or not to bring these terrorists back? Thirdly, did you have any contact with the Turkish ambassador after you called him on the mat, or with the Turkish authorities? What about the so-called Turkey deal, because there is hardly any deal left.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u5	Mr Minister, a great deal has happened on the ground since my question was tabled. The Kurds were betrayed by the United States and on 22 October Russia and Turkey concluded a memorandum of understanding on a joint approach in Northeast Syria. That agreement provides for a number of measures, including the removal of Kurdish YPG fighters from the entire border area and the deployment of Russian-Turkish patrols in the border area. According to the latest reports, the agreement has not yet been fully implemented. What also worries us is whether the control that the Kurds have at the moment in the region will not collapse, for example in the camp al-Hol. The Kurds still have the authority to do so, but we do not know whether that will take much longer. The Kurds are still a possible interlocutor, with their authority over the camp Al Hol. How much longer will that take? That is also an important question for the file concerning the recovery of the children. Until the end of 2020, we are still members of the UN Security Council. Together with Germany and Kuwait, we are there the holder of humanitarian files in Syria, which gives us some weight, so that we can argue for this. That is why we are asking, firstly, whether Belgium can support the recommendation for the deployment of international observers, in order to ensure the protection of citizens in North-East Syria. Secondly, will our country also insist on maintaining and strengthening pressure on Turkey? Our group is indeed in favour of economic sanctions and an overall arms embargo against Turkey. Thirdly, will Belgium also support the recommendation to ensure that humanitarian aid from northern Iraq is given access to North-East Syria and that local aid is made possible by organisations active there that can provide humanitarian aid to the citizens of North-East Syria? Fourthly, will we insist on ensuring that Syrians threatened by developments on the ground can seek refuge in northern Iraq? Corridors to northern Iraq are essential in the circumstances. Fifth and finally, will our country ensure that Syrian refugees are not forced to return from Turkey to Northeast Syria? There are quite a few reports that this is the case and that Turkey is currently forcing entire groups of Syrian refugees manu militari to return to Syria. This, of course, goes against everything we stand for, and also goes against the refugee deal that the European Union concluded with Turkey. I'd like to have your comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u6	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I shall be brief. My question dates from 18 October, but since then there have been many events. In addition, my colleague De Vriendt has already asked a few questions which will allow us to move the debate forward and, above all, to take note of information which you could pass on to us. I would like to supplement my colleague's questions with regard to what took place in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). I was able to read that since what happened, we find that the greatest fragility of the Otanian structure comes from the Turkish position. I would therefore like to take advantage of the question on the situation in Syria to check with you whether the NATO crisis is proven, as announced in the press and as explained by the NATO Secretary-General himself. More broadly, I would like to know your position on the diplomatic, humanitarian and military aspects that you have defended in international, European and NATO forums. I would also like to know more about the bi- and multilateral initiatives that you have taken and to have your opinion on the latest events as well as on the declarations and acts of Erdogan. Indeed, he has returned without consultation with the states, it seems, some terrorists, his formula being: "Remember the radicalized Islamist terrorists, nationals of your country!" Has there been any consultation at European Union level and/or with the countries concerned? Above all, is there any consultation with Belgium within this specific framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u7	Mr President, Minister, on 16 October last the magistrates of first instance in Brussels ordered the Belgian State to repatriate a Belgian mother and her two daughters, the said magistrates considering that the Belgian State must protect its citizens but above all that children have a fundamental right to be protected and not to be separated from their mother. They therefore gave the government 75 days to repatriate them, adding that the means used remained at the discretion of the Belgian State. Last Thursday, we heard in this committee, various experts, namely the Director of Child Focus, the General Delegate of the French Community for the Rights of the Child, the Director of the Centre d'Aide et de Care for any person concerned by Extremisms and Violent Radicalisms (CAPREV). Their opinion was unanimous: it is indefensible to let these children suffer and live in inhuman conditions in Syria. Two weeks earlier, we heard Lieutenant-General Claude Van de Voorde, Chief of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), the Director of the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body (OCAM) and the Federal Attorney. They all said the same thing. According to them, even for safety, it is preferable for Belgium to repatriate these children. Already on 22 December 2017, the National Security Council of Belgium had taken the decision to repatriate Belgian children under the age of 10 from FTFs who still reside in Syria. There are 69 children here, most of whom are very young. However, the decision had not been properly implemented, since only six children had been repatriated since that date. Minister, what has prevented Belgium from honouring its commitment and repatriating Belgian children on Syrian territory? What steps are planned by the Belgian Government to execute the judgment of the Court and to repatriate the other children of Belgian nationals, as provided for in the human rights treaties and in particular on the rights of the child which this Parliament has ratified?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u8	Mr Minister, on 7 October the UN Counter-Terrorism Centre (UNCTC) published a handbook entitled Children affected by the foreign-fighter phenomenon: Ensuring a child rights-based approach. The work contains specific guidelines for lawyers, professionals, policy makers and security experts to ensure full protection and promotion of the rights of the children of FTF.Why the government's choice to financially support that UN report? More importantly, what is the value of the document for the government? To what extent does it agree with the recommendations of the UNCTC? More specifically, the handbook keeps the door open for repatriation of children without their parents, if that is in the best interests of the child. Do you agree to that statement? Can the government put forward arguments to prevent the FTF parents of those children from finding their way back to our country when the children themselves can be brought to safety with us? Allow me to put another question along these lines. I understand you're going to Washington one of these days. What are the questions and what is the subject that you will discuss with the US Government there? What is the position that our government will take there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u9	Mr President, Minister, Belgian justice has just ordered the repatriation of a woman and her two children from Syria. How does the Belgian State intend to implement this decision? Moreover, the US Ambassador pleads that Belgium should recover its nationals for security reasons. However, our government continues to advocate for the jihadists to be tried as close as possible to the place where their crimes were committed. Iraq does not want a court on its territory. It is therefore not clear how this government policy can be implemented. In this regard, Minister, my questions are as follows. Who currently controls the detention of Belgian nationals (women, children and men)? What are the risks of this control going into the hands of the government of Bashar al-Assad, Turkey or Russia? Are there any news of the two Belgian jihadists, Yassin Sheikhi and Mohamed Botashbaqut, who have escaped since the Turkish offensive in northern Syria? What about the three women with six children who escaped from the Ain Issa detention camp? Is it not time to have a strategy for our citizens that takes into account both our security imperatives, our will for justice and the return of children? The United States is calling for the repatriation of our nationals. Of course, but are they prepared to ensure the security of this transfer, in particular through the air and land forces that are still in place in north-eastern Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u10	Minister, Turkey, as announced last Friday, has begun the expulsion of foreign members of the terrorist group IS who were arrested by the country. An American jihadi has already been returned. In the coming days, French and German members would be returned. Are Belgian prisoners of IS terrorists also returned by the Turkish authorities? How many prisoners are we talking about? Do you know the profile of those prisoners? Have you been in contact with the Turkish authorities on this matter? If the prisoners are returned, what is the security risk to the population?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u11	Minister, if I may, I would like to ask two more very specific questions. In recent weeks, we have interviewed several experts – both Belgian and foreign – on the repatriation of the Foreign Terrorism Fighters, but also Belgian children detained in Syria. It is quite impressive to see the extent to which all their views converge on the urgency of the repatriation of children and the security need to see both foreign and Belgian terrorists and fighters tried in our country. These considerations are expressed by both the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the OCAM, the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child and even the UN – as the Committee on the Rights of the Child has made this very clear. My first question concerns Turkey's position, which I can understand to some extent. It is true that this country is not intended to become a large prison for foreign terrorist fighters or to accommodate all European children who were born in the context of the Syrian conflict. We no longer have a choice: if Turkey dismisses terrorists and decides to expel mothers and children, then Belgium must ask itself whether it can afford the luxury of having to wait and block everything. If so, what position will you take, minister? We have seen this rather aberrant situation of Turkey's return of terrorists to Greece, which initially hampered this initiative. As a result, extremely dangerous individuals found themselves in the middle of no man's land. We must, of course, avoid such a situation. Today, the greatest threat is the threat posed by terrorists released in nature – without any direct control – that would constitute as many potential time bombs at the gates of Europe and, therefore, of our country. My second question concerns Erdogan's projects on the safe zone, the buffer zone established between Syria and Turkey. What position have they inspired the European Union and NATO? We know that Turkish plans involve demographic change along the Turkish-Syrian border. In this regard, I would like to hear a firm position from our Government to ensure that the Geneva Convention on Refugees is indeed respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I condemned, on behalf of the Belgian Government, the Turkish military operation in north-eastern Syria. Belgium considers that this invasion is unacceptable and is likely to destabilize the region. This operation already has serious humanitarian consequences with tens of civilian casualties and several thousand people fleeing the combat zones. This message was communicated in very clear terms to the Turkish Ambassador on the occasion of his convocation by my services. In recent weeks, the situation in north-eastern Syria has changed. First of all, with the agreement between the United States and Turkey for a pause in the fighting in order to give the Kurdish troops the opportunity to withdraw. This resulted in a consultation between Russia and Turkey leading to an agreement on the withdrawal of certain Kurdish forces from the Turkish-Syrian border and the transfer of control of the area to Turkish forces on the one hand and Russian-Syrian forces on the other. We note that diplomatic negotiations have led to a pause in the fighting, although attacks and other violent confrontations are still reported. All initiatives that can contribute to the stabilization of the region and an improvement in the humanitarian situation in north-eastern Syria are welcome. These agreements are in no way a definitive solution to the situation in this region. That solution could only come from a political process under the aegis of the United Nations. A first important step in this direction took place last week with the first meeting of the Constitutional Committee in Geneva, led by the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Geir Pedersen. This is an important first step, but it is only the beginning of a longer process that must lead not only to a new constitution but also to free and democratic elections in which all Syrians, including those in the diaspora, must be able to participate. Moreover, the agreements reached with regard to the situation in the north-east cannot be misused to change the demographic composition of the region and to return Syrian refugees from Turkey under the present circumstances. We share the position of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees that the return of refugees can only take place on a voluntary basis when the conditions of security and dignity are met. I have already mentioned the impact of the Turkish operation on the fight against Daesh. Shortly after the Turkish invasion, I consulted with the closest partners of the international coalition against Daesh to discuss the influence of recent developments on the ground. All coalition partners were convinced of the need to continue the fight against Daesh. Later this week, I will also participate in the coalition ministerial meeting in Washington where the situation in the north-east of Syria and the situation of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters will be high on the agenda. In the margins of that meeting, I will have contacts with the European partners who are facing the same problem. Since Turkish military action, Belgium has on the UN Security Council agenda several times, in cooperation with other members of the Security Council and in close consultation with the EU members who are now members of the Security Council. Together with these EU members, Belgium has adopted a declaration that is in line with the EU and Belgian positions. Also in New York, my services follow the situation closely. The situation in Syria and the Turkish operation were, of course, also on the agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council on 14 October and yesterday, 11 November. In the Council conclusions of 14 October, which I adopted with my EU colleagues, the European Union condemns the military operation and calls for it to cease immediately. The EU also warns about the humanitarian consequences, the consequences of the fight against Daesh and the consequences for regional stability. The EU Member States undertake to implement the joint position of 2008 on the export of military goods, seeking strict application of criterion 4. This criterion is intended to prevent exports from undermining regional stability. A large number of countries have already decided not to export arms to Turkey. Belgium, in consultation with the Regions, also supports this decision and will no longer supply Turkey with any material that can be used in this operation. This has been the case for several years. The EU will further discuss in the coming weeks what additional measures may need to be taken with regard to Turkey. As has been said on several occasions, the position of the Belgian Government in relation to the Foreign Terrorist Fighters has not changed. Belgium will not actively repatriate them and is still in favour of trial in the region where they committed the crime. Consultations with other EU Member States facing the same problem will continue with a view to finding a solution. Our attitude towards children is also unchanged. Children under 10 years of age can return. Children over 10 years of age are treated on a case-by-case basis. For the specific situation of the children, we look at all possible pistes and interact with all relevant actors, including the US, who can help solve the situation. The funding of a UN study does not mean that we support the conclusions of that study, Mr De Roover. We are open to view all the slopes in collaboration with the different partners. It is true that recently, the Brussels Court of First Instance ordered us to bring back a mother and two children who are currently in north-eastern Syria, more precisely in the Al-Roj detention camp. In collaboration with the other departments concerned, my department is studying the possible scenarios and possible courses of action in this case. However, I would like to point out that upon service of the court order, the Minister of Justice and I will file an appeal on behalf of the government. In addition, my services and I are in contact with the United States to clarify the support they could provide and the conditions they attach to it. As I said, I will be in Washington tomorrow for a meeting of the anti-Daesh coalition. We have already talked about this between Europeans yesterday and today at the level of Foreign and Defence Ministers. On the defence side, I asked for questions from our British and French colleagues as to the extent to which operations could eventually be carried out jointly. I would remind you, if necessary, that we have neither a military presence nor a diplomatic presence on Syrian soil. If we want to take any action, we do so in collaboration with other actors on the ground. We have also taken up the language with the Kurdish authorities. All the tools that had been put in place for a first operation involving six orphans are still in place and could still be activated. But I repeat: we have no military presence on Syrian soil, particularly at the request of Parliament. For several years now, we have no diplomatic presence either. We are also concerned by the Belgian foreign fighters detained in Turkey following recent statements by the Turkish Ministry of the Interior announcing the removal of the foreign terrorist fighters detained at home to their countries of origin. We are aware at this stage of four Belgians detained by the Turkish authorities. The evictions announced this Monday concerned France, Germany, the United States and Ireland. We are following developments carefully and are in contact with the Turkish authorities in this regard. If I am not mistaken, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has made a request for extradition in one of the cases. But we will see if any action is taken by the Turkish authorities. In short, of course, if European or American partners can help us return children to Belgium, we will continue to ask them to describe the conditions under which such an operation can take place. As I have said on several occasions, I will obviously be in favour of such an operation. I will again question our coalition partners in Washington in the next two days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The European Union assumes that Turkey is a loyal partner, but we note that Turkey is not loyal and that it has never been. The unannounced offensive against the Kurds goes against all diplomatic and international relations. American sources are now even talking about war crimes by Turkish troops or militias. There can be no place for ethnic cleansing. I would also like to refer to the so-called 2016 Turkey deal that the European Union, with the support of the Belgian Government, concluded with President Erdogan's regime. That deal was and is not respected by Turkey. With regard to the possible return of IS terrorists, the Flemish interest continues to stress that there is no place for such terrorists here in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that there will soon be consultations within the European Union on possible additional measures against Turkey. From our group, we ask you to lead the way with our country and to put forward the necessary proposals, both with regard to the European consultation and with regard to the consultations in Washington. This should focus on the humanitarian protection dimension in the region, with a view to establishing a corridor towards Iraq, or at least ensure that aid organisations have access to the area in North-East Syria, so that the level of assistance can be increased, especially in the camps. The control of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters decreases by the day and it is not certain that the situation will remain under control. I know you are talking about trial in your own region, but in the short term that is not realistic. The security of these people is far from certain, nor is there much certainty about the conditions in which they are imprisoned and tried. For us, the importance of security prevails. It may be in our own security interest to bring those people back to Belgium, to judge them here and to lock them up here; that is our position. The return of children is, in our opinion, our humanitarian duty. At the moment we still have contact with the Kurds, who currently exercise authority in the refugee camp al-Hol. Hearings which have taken place in our Committee on External Relations in recent weeks have shown that this window of opportunity, that contact with the Kurds, is closing. For example, the team around Professor Gerrit Loots states that it is ready to carry out such an operation, as the team maintains contacts with Kurds on the ground. Of course, the team needs the political permission of the government to take such action. He did not talk about the necessary aid from the United States or European allies; the government is actually waiting for the green light in current cases to start that operation. There's a window of opportunity, but that's closing. Over the next few weeks, the Kurds are likely to lose control of that camp and of the region. Then who will be our interlocutors? Then our interlocutors change, then we need to contact Russia and Assad. It is obvious that all of this is much more difficult. If we want to bring these children here, we need urgent action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u15	I confirm what our colleague Wouter De Vriendt said on the window of opportunity. This was explained to us by the speakers as a whole, and in particular by Professor Gerrit Loots, who really insisted on this point. That is an element to be included in the debate. For the rest, it seems, in your opinion, that there is consultation between the Turkish Government and ours with regard to the terrorists they want to expel. I noted that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office had requested extradition himself. We also talked about children. You did not explicitly specify in your answers if you were open to the idea of repatriating them with their mother or not. This is a remark that would have required more clarity on your part.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. I feel like we've been going around all along in this case. You repeat the position of the government, which has not changed. This position is not on the road, and everyone knows it. On the one hand, these nationals cannot be judged in the region. Everyone knows today. You have explored this path, and many others have done so too. This path is impassable. On the other hand, children under the age of 10 are the government's response, and at no time are mothers. However, the Kurds repeat to the envier that there is no question of it. I was in contact with Kurdish authorities no later than this morning. They say that it is not possible, that we cannot separate mothers from children. All the other people we auditioned here are telling us the same thing. So we can't repatriate them without their mom. Here too, we find ourselves in a somewhat schizophrenic or hypocritical situation, which in any case does not work. It is true that today the Kurds control these families, but for how long? Bashar al-Assad has already asked for control of these camps, and the Turks are asking for only one thing as well: control of these camps. It is a window of opportunity that we are not using, even though, for the moment, the situation would allow to evacuate these women and children, and even other nationals, as has already been the case, through the Iraqi border. This mechanism persists but is not used. In fact, in this whole matter, we are experiencing events as we move forward. We suffer them at our expense and at the expense of our safety. Indeed, some nationals are in nature. That's what I mentioned in my question. These are particularly dangerous characters and no one knows where they are. With regard to the repatriations that would be organized by Turkey, it is well known how Turkey used the jihadists in the past. There's the ones she's sending home. There's the ones she's holding under her arm. And then there's the ones she's sending back to Syria. For example, we never knew very well what had happened to Yassine Lachiri, who was sentenced to 20 years of detention in Belgium and who is a particularly dangerous figure. It is believed that it was exchanged by the Turkish authorities for Turkish prisoners held by the Islamic State. It is clear from this that this cooperation with Turkey, which has always been described by our security services as being very difficult, will certainly not improve in the current political context. So we are really in a situation that is not in the direction of improving our security or speeding up justice. Yet the victims of the terrorist attacks would like them to be tried. The humanitarian issue of children still does not find a decent solution in this position of the Government. The Belgian Government is not the only one to act like that. It is clear that all European countries are affected by this issue and that they absolutely do not want to move forward on this issue. I'm sorry. I think that these are policies that are driven by fear and that fear is not good counselor in this question. The reason should indeed require that we hear our security and intelligence services. OCAM is still an organ that is meant to protect us. When he pleads so that they can be judged and put their hands on them and the federal prosecutor does the same thing, we should listen to him. Usually, that's what we do. I don't understand why in this case, we don't. In any case, I think that is not a good policy. Finally, I think that, following the next NATO summit, we will come back to the general situation of NATO. I believe that there is a whole subject which directly concerns this Syrian and Turkish crisis and which questions the future of NATO, but I imagine that we will have an opportunity to address this issue at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u17	Mr Minister, I confirm what has been said by my colleague De Vriendt, namely that there are opportunities to repatriate these children who are only waiting for a political decision. That's what's missing today! We've heard the same answer for two years! And even if a decision has been made in theory by the government, it does not come into practice. Today, we need a position. The fact of leaving the situation as it is today is indeed a position not to repatriate these children. At one point, we have to make a clear choice: are we putting the means in place to comply with the 2017 government's decision or are we abandoning that decision? We must make a choice, we cannot remain indefinitely without a clear political position on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I understand that the government assumes that we are not actively repatriating. Nor, in my opinion, was it decided to actively repatriate children under 10 years of age. When we link these two theories together, of course, we must find solutions to allow these children to be repatriated without their mother. That's obvious. The questioners underestimate the problem of the identification of children of Belgian nationality in relation to children who do not have Belgian nationality. I take it that nationality wasn't tattooed on their foreheads. There's been quite a scorn of the problem here. We cannot, of course, simply go back to the repatriation of children simply because they are children. I assume that it is quite a difficult task to distinguish between those who do and those who do not have Belgian nationality. I am very pleased that the handbook now issued contains the possibility of repatriating in the best interests of the child without the mother. If the mother decides that she does not want to give up her children in any way, the government can of course be very difficult to intervene. That is the decision and responsibility of the parents, or in this case of the mother. The choices made by the previous government in this area must remain our directive. We must not look at things too simplisticly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u19	Mr President, I would like to add a nuance to what has been said. Of course, during the hearings of Mrs De Pauw, Child Focus, Mr Gerrit Loots and Mr. De Vos, the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, was heard their wish to try to use what they presented as an opportunity window to repatriate the children. It was indeed the expression of a wish and not the expression of the fact that this repatriation was feasible. Unanimity on a wish is something else. We did not hear the boss of the SGRS tell us that it was feasible and that the window of opportunity coincided with a possibility. I would also point out that Mr Gerrit Loots has proposed to set up a voluntary operation with some 30 doctors, who would even do so at their own expense. For having discussed this idea with the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child outside the meeting, I can tell you that he called it "completely crazy". So let us be nuanced about it! There is unanimity on the wish but certainly not on the feasibility of such an operation at the time it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u20	Anyone can, of course, read the report and watch the broadcast of that hearing. The team around Gerrit Loots, VUB professor, who has already carried out a previous rescue operation and has already been on site twice to investigate the humanitarian and medical situation of those children, has confirmed that it is ready, has contacts with the Kurds and that, with the political green light, it can enter to organise another rescue operation. Is that easy? No, but it's doable. It's possible. It's possible. They're ready. What they need now is political authorization.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u21	I hope that the VUB professor will also have the means to find out whether a child is Belgian or not. I think that this is crucial and that he underestimates that problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u22	I can hear Mr. De Vriendt and I repeat what I said because the shade is fundamentally important. Mr. Gerrit Loots' wish was to do so and he even suggested setting up a team of about 30 volunteer doctors who would do so at their own expense. I reacted by telling him that he could not take political responsibility for such an act, which could lead to dramatic consequences. I discussed it after the session with the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child and he called this idea "completely crazy".
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u23	I had contact with a Kurdish general this morning. He told me that the processes to get families and children out had not changed. It's complicated, but some countries are currently evacuating nationals across the Iraqi border. U.S. forces are still using an airport on site and allowing these operations to take place. Whatever they think, operations are under way. It is simply a political will of our countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u24	For my political group, this blockage, or even the obstinacy of the federal government, which is limited to not moving, is absolutely incomprehensible, for three reasons. Firstly, for humanitarian reasons, because it is necessary to imagine under what conditions Belgian children are now detained in north-eastern Syria, particularly in the Al Hol camp. Four children died last week, UNICEF and Child Focus told us. The time is ticking and the risk of new child deaths is obviously real today. Secondly, for security reasons, because there too, the situation can change at any moment. We know how relative the current "calm" is. There is a real "window of opportunities", the experts tell us. I therefore do not understand why we are not taking advantage of this moment to act. Finally, for purely judicial reasons. I hear the federal government's position that terrorists should ideally be judged on the spot. In an ideal world, it would be beautiful. The truth today is that the majority of these terrorist fighters are on Syrian and non-Iraqi territory. The Federal Prosecutor's Office also tells us that Iraq does not meet the standards we know here in terms of respect for the rights of defence. Establishing an international regional tribunal would be fine if we had the money and the time. But this time, of course, we do not have it today. I conclude by saying that I can understand, very cynically and politically, that it is difficult to move forward in such a delicate matter that provokes fears. However, it is important to return to reason, to dedramatize the debate and to listen to all the experts who, I repeat, are unanimous. When OCAM raises the level of threat to Level 4 and calls on the federal government to act and close schools for child safety, the government acts and listens to OCAM. When OCAM tells us today, through its representative here in Parliament, that it is absolutely necessary to repatriate children and adults in the interests of national security, the government is not moving, and I do not understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u25	Mr President, with one word: I hear you pretending that the experts are unanimous. That's not what – present at these hearings – I heard for my part. I have heard three experts express a common point of view. You've appointed them. These were Ms. Heidi De Pauw (Director of Child Focus), Dr. Gerrit Loots (VUB) and Mr. Bernard De Vos (General Delegate for the Rights of the Child). There are many more. I am going to repeat something fundamental: there has been unanimity, not about feasibility, but about the desire to achieve it. Moreover, the government also wants to repatriate children under the age of 10. If you want unanimity on the question of feasibility, then we will have to rehearse the voices of different actors, including the boss of the SGRS, because that is not what has been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u26	Minister, the deadline for the Brexit has been postponed again until 31 January 2020. Elections are also coming, which may be a referendum. I would like to ask you briefly about a state of affairs. Is it your expectation that the deal between the United Kingdom and the European Union will last? Are there any recent preparations by the companies in our country so that we can prepare for the Brexit in accordance with the conditions and criteria set out in the agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u27	Minister, I come immediately to my questions. Do you think Belgium will be ready for 31 December? What will it have to put in place to adapt to a Brexit without agreement, if the proposed agreement is not accepted by all the parties? In order to cope with a Brexit without agreement, Belgium must increase its staff in the customs services or in the AFSCA. Would staff requirements be different if the agreement on the UK's exit from the European Union were to be rejected? The UK Withdrawal from the European Union Act of 3 April 2019 needs its entry into force in a royal decree. Is such a royal decree under way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 17 October the European Council approved the agreement reached with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The withdrawal agreement is a treaty that regulates the practical arrangements for withdrawal from the United Kingdom and provides for a transitional period until the end of 2020, which can be extended by one or two years by mutual agreement. This agreement is accompanied by a political declaration on future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The differences with the previous agreement can only be found in the Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland and in the Political Declaration. The rest of the text has not changed from the previous agreement with Prime Minister Theresa May. The changes to the Protocol create a situation where Northern Ireland will remain officially in the United Kingdom customs area, but will continue to apply the EU customs rules in their entirety. Northern Ireland will also have to comply with some of the internal market rules that are necessary to maintain North-South cooperation on the island of Ireland and to preserve the all-island economy as well as the integrity of the single market in terms of VAT, state aid, sanitary and phytosanitary rules, for example. A second change is the inclusion of a consent mechanism for Northern Ireland. The Northern Ireland Legislative Assembly will have the opportunity to decide on the continuation of the system as provided for in the agreement, for the first time, four years after the expiry of the transitional period, and then every four years, a cooling off period of two years is provided for in the event of a negative vote. The political declaration on future relations has also been amended, at the request of the British Government. It is now putting forward the objective of achieving a comprehensive and balanced free trade agreement rather than the creation of a customs union. However, the text maintains the requirements for level playing field and clearly states that the commitments in this area must correspond to the scope and depth of our future relationship. This means in practice that the scope of UK access to the single market will depend on UK compliance with a set of environmental, tax, health, social or competition standards, for example. Although this is a non-legally binding political declaration, it is clear that this is an essential point for the Union, for Belgium and for the neighbouring countries with which we regularly consult. On Saturday 19 October, the British Parliament did not decide on the deal because the approved Letwin amendment delayed this vote until the necessary British internal legislation, the Withdrawal Agreement Bill, was adopted. On Tuesday 22 October a majority was found for the second reading of this Withdrawal Agreement Bill, but at the same time the so-called programme motion, the calendar for the discussion of the bill, was rejected. Boris Johnson then suspended the examination of the draft law pending a decision by the EU on his request for renewal. On 28 October, the EU adopted a new flextension extension to 31 January A flextension means that the Brexit will be postponed until 31 January 2020, but that the United Kingdom will be able to leave the Union more quickly if the withdrawal agreement is previously ratified, both on the UK or EU side, in particular on the first day of the month following this double ratification. After that, the British Parliament decided to hold general elections in the United Kingdom on 12 December. It is now awaiting the new composition of the House of Commons, as well as the government that will emerge from these elections. Both the European Union and Belgium are prepared for all scenarios, including that of a no deal that could still occur, for example if the withdrawal agreement was not ratified by the United Kingdom by 31 January 2020. These preparations may mitigate the effects of Brexit but cannot completely eliminate them. On the Belgian side, three Councils of Ministers were devoted to the topic of Brexit. The most recent one took place on September 20th. A Brexit law has been published and several royal decrees have been drafted with a view to preparing the no deal, including the decree allowing the Brexit law to enter into force once the date of the no deal is known. The law has been published; the royal decrees will be published once the no deal is certain. I would refer you to the relevant colleagues for more information on this. Online portals, as well as more specific websites, have been created and more substantial efforts have been made in the area of communication, both within and outside our country. Similar measures have been taken by the federated entities. The Council of Ministers last January authorized several SPFs to hire additional staff to meet the challenges of Brexit. With regard to the customs and AFSCA workforce, it was announced at the last Council of Ministers that almost all the necessary staff of these two entities had been engaged and trained and that any shortfalls could be offset by using internal mobility mechanisms. This is where we are today with regard to Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u29	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u30	Question No 55001234C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u31	Minister, as you know, this year the Council of Europe is celebrating its 70th anniversary. This organisation is very important for the defence of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It has continued to develop a range of mechanisms to protect the citizens of 47 countries and 820 million Europeans. While there has been an upsurge in hate speech and pressure on fundamental rights across a large number of countries, it is essential that this organization receive stable funding. In recent years, however, there has been the whole question of Russia's withdrawal from the Council of Europe, but also of unstable financing due to the fact that inflation has not been taken into account by some Member States. Indeed, this funding is based on zero nominal budget growth, which reduces the budget by 10 per cent in 10 years. It's a big deal for an organization like that. Minister, what was the amount of Belgium's financial contribution to the Council of Europe for the 2019 budget year? What is Belgium's position in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on returning to a contribution based not on zero nominal growth but on zero real growth? What would be the budgetary impact for Belgium if this zero real growth were taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u32	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, the Belgian financial contribution to the Council of Europe for the 2019 budget year amounts to €7,894,333.28. Belgium advocates maintaining zero nominal growth policy in all international organisations. However, we do not intend to block the ongoing discussions and consider a move towards zero real growth possible, if a large majority of the members of the Council of Europe are in favour of it. The budget proposal of the Council of Europe Secretariat for 2020-2021 is based on zero real growth with an inflation rate of 2.1%. The result is an increase in the Council of Europe's regular budget by €5 million in 2020 and an additional €5.1 million in 2021. In this scenario, total contributions for Belgium will increase from EUR 7.89 million to EUR 8.15 million in 2020 and to EUR 8.37 million in 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u33	Minister, I am quite surprised that you mentioned the idea of a large majority of countries. If I am not mistaken, Belgium is one of the five Council of Europe countries that block this idea of an inflation-based contribution. I think that with 42 countries, this is not at all a large majority. I therefore encourage you to defend a position that goes towards a real rate at the next Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55001286C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u35	Minister, a violent robbery at the beginning of November in a South African safari park killed a 53-year-old countryman and father of four children. Gangsters had overpowered and gagged him, his wife and two older women. Meanwhile, the unsubs robbed the house. The man in question and a friend of his mother-in-law suffocated in the clot that had to keep their mouths shut. The violence in South Africa, in particular against white people in the country, has taken alarming forms over the last decade, with many thousands of massacres, such as the massacre. Have you had any contact with the victim's family? Is the Foreign Office providing travel advice on this matter for those travelling to South Africa? How many compatriots live in South Africa? How many compatriots were injured or killed in attacks? Have you been in contact with the South African authorities to express your concern about the anti-white violence in South Africa?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u36	Mrs Samyn, I refer to the travel advice on South Africa on the FPS Foreign Affairs website. The major problem of crime in the country is mentioned in detail, with many security regulations and locations to be avoided. 8,202 compatriots are currently registered at the Consulate in Johannesburg and the Consulate in Cape Town. In the last three years, besides the recent case in Marloth Park, two compatriots were murdered, both in 2018. The investigation is ongoing and Belgium has sent an international request for legal aid to South Africa in the context of that case. Both things may be linked to each other and there may be political motives in the game. So it's probably not about robbery murders. In the last three years, we've been notified of one injured Belgian lady, a burglary in her house near Durban this year. Most deaths and injuries among Belgian citizens in South Africa are due to road accidents. The events in Marloth Park once again concern crime, which has been going on for a long time and which, unfortunately, can affect all the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u37	Mr Secretary of State, anti-white violence, platter attacks and platter killing in South Africa are unjustly minimized. It is high time that the European Union and Belgium stopped looking away and urged the South African Government to release South African society from these unacceptable acts of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u38	Minister, the last negotiations on the above-mentioned treaty took place from 14 to 18 October in Geneva. The local community community welcomed the constructive and open dialogue it had with Belgium, but deplored Belgium's lack of a strong commitment to this process. Mr Minister, what was Belgium's position on the content of this treaty, which must lead to binding standards of respect for human rights by private companies? What approach does Belgium intend to take to establish and adopt a position on the new version of the draft treaty? Are a study on the distribution of competences within Belgium and a legal analysis of the text under way? If so, by whom? What's the calendar? It is known that the three government declarations, at the regional level, have strongly supported the draft UN treaty on business and human rights. Are consultations planned with Belgian civil society to analyse the text? If so, in what form? It is well known that civil society was truly present in Geneva in order to follow up on these international negotiations. Does Belgium intend to send its comments on the text by 30 November, the deadline for sending written suggestions to the rapporteur by the States, in accordance with the conclusions of the fifth negotiating session? Finally, what is Belgium doing to push for the emergence of a common position at European level and thus give the Union a clear negotiating mandate for as proactive a position as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u39	Mr President, Minister, the United Nations Human Rights Council, through an ad hoc working group, held negotiations on 14-18 October in Geneva on the development of an international legal framework to regulate the activities of multinational enterprises. This session was able to count on the very interested presence of a large number of civil society. The European Union apparently did not wish to contribute to the content, however, given that it did not have a negotiating mandate issued by the European Commission – that was its argument. Belgium would have taken too little part in the discussions. Minister, how does Belgium intend to ensure that the Commission develops an ambitious negotiating mandate for the next negotiating session in 2020? Does Belgium intend to submit its comments to the draft Treaty by 30 November as proposed in the conclusions of the rapporteur-in-chief? Finally, what consultation process – in line with the same conclusions – does Belgium intend to initiate in order to ensure that federated entities and civil society are fully involved in the preparation of comments or even a national position on the draft treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u40	Mr President, the fifth session of the Intergovernmental Group on Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises was held in Geneva from 14 to 18 October. Belgium attended and intervened at certain meetings by asking questions for clarification of the text under negotiation. With regard to the timetable, States and other stakeholders are invited to submit to the secretariat, by 30 November at the latest, their concrete suggestions for the revised draft legally binding instrument, which were presented at the fifth session of the working group. The secretariat will prepare a compilation of textual proposals, which will be available by the end of December. In addition, it will prepare a compilation of written statements transmitted by States during the same session, which will also be available at the end of December. States and other stakeholders are invited to submit their suggestions for additional texts by the end of February 2020 at the latest. Ecuador will prepare a second revised draft of a legally binding instrument on the basis of the discussions held during the fifth session of the working group, suggestions for additional texts and informal consultations, and will submit a second revised text by the end of June 2020 for consideration and further discussion. Ecuador will hold in-depth and regular informal consultations with Governments, regional and political groups, intergovernmental organizations, United Nations mechanisms, civil society and other stakeholders, prior to the sixth session of the working group in 2020. The negotiation of a treaty of such magnitude usually takes several years. The subjects dealt with by the legally binding treaty are complex and cover several legal areas. It should also be noted that the process used to take place in a highly polarized manner. This improved under the last president. However, with the participation of 89 States out of a total of 193 States members of the United Nations, the process continues to lack the necessary attraction among States members of the United Nations. In order to ensure that the vast majority of States support the process and objectives of the Treaty, it will be incumbent on the Chair of the Working Group to organise this process in a more inclusive manner. Coordination with the federated entities is ensured through the CoorMulti mechanism responsible for ensuring the coherence of Belgian policy. At a new coordination meeting on 12 September, the administrations, at federal level as well as at the level of the federated entities, agreed that Belgium should continue, first of all, to advocate for a European Union commitment to this issue. In regular contacts with the European External Action Service and other Member States of the European Union, our country continues to work in this direction. After consultation between federal and federal governments, a working group was established to analyse the draft treaty. In September, this working group made an initial comparison of the revised version of the Treaty with the said zero draft. On the issue of division of powers, my department has had several contacts with the European services, and in particular with the Commission's European External Action Service. On many occasions, we have tried, in vain, to involve the European bodies in our initiative, and we have tried to initiate such an analysis of the distribution of competences, given their expertise and experience in this field. Indeed, in the interests of coherence and European loyalty, we believe that it would be illogical for each Member State to carry out an analysis of this nature which is purely national. However, taking into account the absence of a response from the European institutions, the working group is obliged to continue to carry out this analysis itself. Before deciding on which part of the text Member States may intervene in their national capacity, it is first necessary to decide which aspects of the Treaty fall within the competence of the European Union and which aspects fall within the competence of the Member States. Indeed, the division of powers prevents a Member State from being able to decide on a matter which does not fall within its national competence. At the end of February 2019, the European External Action Service and the Commission had decided not to contribute to the negotiations on the legally binding instrument on business and human rights. Our country has always regretted this disengagement from the European Union and has continued to advocate for a European commitment to the negotiation process. Finally, thanks to our sustained efforts and thanks to the fact that the latest version of the draft Treaty satisfies certain red lines which the European Union had set, the European External Action Service and the Commission decided to reconsider their decision and to participate in the fifth negotiating session which, I said, took place from 14 to 18 October 2019 in Geneva and to intervene with a declaration. Following the entry into force of the new Commission, a decision will have to be taken at European level concerning the Commission's obtaining a negotiating mandate to negotiate this Treaty on behalf of the European Union. In accordance with the current mandate given to it by the other FPS, the Communities and the Regions within the framework of the CoorMulti, my department will continue to advocate for a firm European commitment in the negotiations, including within the framework of the Human Rights Working Group of the Council of the European Union. My department maintains an ongoing dialogue with civil society on business and human rights. Civil society is not only regularly informed and consulted on the implementation of our national action plan on this subject, but we maintain frequent contacts on the legally binding instrument that is being negotiated in Geneva. We attach great importance to these exchanges of views, which are organised not only at the request of NGOs, trade unions and business representatives but also regularly on our own initiative. I will check whether any documents will be communicated to the Presidency by the end of November. But, as I have told you, texts may, in any case, still be sent later on on this legally binding instrument. As in other debates that we have had on other matters – I do not revive the debate on our trade relations – we are trying to have a consolidated Belgian position within a consolidated European position. I note that our efforts have nevertheless moved the European position. We will see if this will go so far as to provide for the active participation of the European Union in the development of this draft Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u41	Minister, thank you. It is true that formal negotiations have begun five years ago. In my view, it is important, on the one hand, to involve civil society as it requests and, on the other hand, to enable it to play a leading role in the continuation of the negotiations and to obtain a national position on the subject. I was delighted to hear that you have managed to move the European Union in this direction. But I believe it is also important that a negotiating mandate be quickly adopted in the areas within its competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u42	Mr President, I am not going to be much longer because I share what you have just said as a reply. I would also point out that the European Parliament has, I think, taken nine steps towards consolidating the 'human rights' stakes on the subject before us. A kind of mandate could be established for the European authorities to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u43	Minister, from 14 to 18 October, Working Group III of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) held its 38th session in Vienna on the reform of investor-state dispute resolution. Belgium is part of this working group. Furthermore, the European Union was also present and was able to speak on its own behalf and on behalf of its Member States at this 38th session. It would appear that these two actors have some strength in these negotiations. Minister, given the importance of these negotiations and the approach of the 39th session from 20 to 24 January, there are several questions. What are the main demands of Belgium and the European Union in Working Group III? Do these demands have a chance to succeed? What were the main actions taken by Belgium and the European Union at the 38th session? Is an official account of Belgium's work at this 38th session available? What positions will Belgium and the European Union support at the 39th session? How can Belgium and the European Union support a strong position on negotiations for the settlement of investor-state disputes without, however, achieving this for the negotiation of the Treaty on Business and Human Rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u44	Dear colleague, Belgium is actively engaged in fundamental reform of the existing international investor-state dispute settlement system (ISDS). In that context, Belgium and the European Union, as well as some other States members of the Union, participated in UNCITRAL Working Group III and called for the establishment of a multilateral investment court. Belgium and the European Union are making every effort to make progress. Working Group III initially identified and addressed key concerns related to ISDS. This work has highlighted the need to reform this mechanism in order to address the various concerns, many of which are shared in these meetings. Working Group III will now consider the review and development of these options. During the last two sessions, Belgium and the European Union have achieved that structural reforms are central to the work agenda. The work plan adopted by the working group at last October devotes the entire work week of January 2020 to proposals for structural reforms, namely an independent appeal or review mechanism, a multilateral court with a permanent body of judges and the selection and appointment of arbitrators and contractors. Belgium's action in the field of trade and investment policy is the subject of an annual progress report to the Federal Parliament. His work in Working Group III is discussed and my services are at the disposal of Parliament to answer any additional questions. In addition, the work is transparent, open to observers and discussions can be heard online by any individual who wishes to do so. Belgium was elected a member of UNCITRAL for the period 2019-2024. As a member, Belgium will ensure the inclusive and transparent nature of the reform process, both vis-à-vis all Member and observer States, developed and developing, with an interest in and therefore contributing to this reform, and vis-à-vis the many observers of civil society, whose presence and interventions are important. As a member of UNCITRAL, Belgium called for greater coherence with other ongoing international initiatives on the short or very long term to modernize and reform investment protection, in particular the ongoing modernization of the rules of procedure of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes, or the ongoing discussions in Geneva since 2014 aimed at achieving a legally binding multilateral treaty on the respect of human rights by multinational corporations, as we have just mentioned. During these last discussions, at the end of February 2019, the European External Action Service and the Commission decided, I told you, not to participate in the negotiations anymore. We have managed to change that situation, which should also enable us to move forward with the ongoing reforms, not only with regard to this legally binding treaty, but also with regard to the reform of the dispute settlement instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u45	Thank you, Minister. I look forward to seeing this report in the federal Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u46	Mr Minister, on 17 September last you had already answered questions from my colleagues and myself concerning the Uighur family arrested at the Belgian Embassy in Beijing. Since then, I have been able to discuss with the family in question and its representatives in Belgium. It appears that questions remain. So I'd like to relay them to you. Did Mrs. Abula's arrest take place on the ground of the Belgian embassy, i.e. under a jurisdiction different from that of China, or on Chinese soil? Why did the consulate not allow Ms.Abula to carry out the certificates she needed in her area if she was so at risk of leaving her? Today we see the consequences. What measures has Belgium taken to enable Ms.Abula to recover a passport or a laissez-passer? Why is family reunification not possible for this family when visas have now been issued? Ms. Abula would be subjected to the equivalent of house arrest as well as daily visits to convince her for hours, with various forms of intimidation, to abandon the project of family reunification in Belgium. It would be severely weakened. The news we have is particularly negative and disturbing. What evidence does the FPS Foreign Affairs and our embassy have on the spot of the lack of inhuman and degrading treatment of him? Why are Belgian diplomats not going to meet Mrs Abula directly on the spot as journalists do? Finally, to what extent will the federal government be able to impose a discussion on fundamental rights, in particular on respect for the rights of the Uighur minority and even on this particular case of Mrs.Abula and family reunification, in China, during the Princely Mission from 16 to 22 November?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u47	Mr President, it has been repeatedly pointed out to the Chinese authorities that the situation should be seen as a misunderstanding following a lack of understanding of visa procedures and a communication problem. They reported escorting the family to their hotel. The Embassy did not require Ms.Abula to travel in person to Beijing to file the necessary documents to complete the family reunification visa application file. In the present case, it would have been possible to send these documents by mail. Among the documents in question, those to be legalized involve steps that could be taken in Ms.Abula's area of residence. As for the medical certificate issued after examination with a doctor recognised by Belgium and given the absence of such a doctor in Mrs.Abula's region of residence, she had the choice to travel to another province near her place of residence. The People's Republic of China does not recognize laissez-passer as a valid travel document. Therefore, if visas were issued on laissez-passer, they would not be recognized by the Chinese authorities as a legal means of leaving the country. It would therefore be necessary to obtain a passport issued by the Chinese authorities in order to effect family reunification. The Chinese authorities have so far not given their consent to the issuance of passports to Ms.Abula and her family, although the Belgian authorities referred to this case in their various interviews with the Chinese authorities, in order to encourage them to facilitate the issuance of passports to Ms.Abula and her family. The issue of Chinese travel documents to Chinese citizens falls within the sole competence of the Chinese authorities, over which Belgium can only exercise diplomatic influence. In regular talks between the Belgian and Chinese authorities on the situation of Ms. Abula and her family, the latter point out that, under the Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and Consular Relations, Belgium has no jurisdiction in this matter, since Ms. Abula and her children are Chinese citizens residing in the People's Republic of China. Furthermore, the Chinese authorities indicate that the control measures imposed on Ms.Abula and her children are in the context of a judicial investigation against her. In its contacts with the Chinese authorities, Belgium systematically requests information on the progress of this judicial procedure. However, very little information is provided to us on this subject, except that it follows its course. The Embassy maintains regular telephone contacts with Ms.Abula to inquire about the well-being of the family and any new elements regarding her application for passports. During these exchanges, the last of which took place a few days ago, Ms.Abula told us that she lived in her apartment and said that her children were going to school and that she could leave her home. She added that she was in regular telephone contact with her husband living in Belgium. However, on the basis of these exchanges, it is difficult to determine precisely which types of control measures it would or would not be subject to. Official visits of diplomats to the region are strictly supervised from beginning to end by the Chinese authorities. One of them has already taken place in July. Our diplomats were not allowed to speak with Mrs.Abula on the spot, despite our express request to do so. Visits by diplomats outside an official framework could not take place without the competent authorities being informed. This will make the freedom of movement of our diplomats in the region illusory and, if necessary, could further complicate the situation. At particular meetings envisaged on the margins of the next Belgian economic mission, I plan to address various human rights issues in an open and constructive dialogue with the relevant Chinese officials. The issue of family reunification of the Uyghur Ablimit-Abula family remains a priority bilateral issue and continues to be the subject of regular exchanges with the Chinese authorities with a view to finding a positive solution. That will still be the case when I am on the spot. With regard to the human rights situation in Xinjiang, my services continue to follow very actively the development of this issue, which is regularly discussed with the Chinese authorities at various levels, as well as multilaterally. On 6 November 2018, our country intervened on this issue and made recommendations in the context of the universal periodic review of China. At the 41st session of the Human Rights Council in July 2019, Belgium, together with 23 other like-minded countries, signed a letter to the President of the Human Rights Council and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights concerning the human rights situation in Xinjiang. On 29 October, in line with its previous positions, Belgium again signed a joint statement on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang with 22 other countries in the context of the interactive dialogue with the Chairman of the Committee against All Forms of Racial Discrimination. In addition, Belgium also continues to support the European Union's interventions with the Chinese authorities concerning the situation of Uighurs and other minorities in Xinjiang, either in the context of the annual EU-China human rights dialogue or at the sessions of the UN Human Rights Council. As I said earlier, in the debate with the Chinese authorities, we are trying to find a solution through the granting of passports, allowing – finally – the implementation of the family reunification decision that has been taken. I am referring here to the more specific case of the family you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u48	Thank you, Minister. Of course, I am pleased that the tragic and tragic situation of Mr Ablimit Tursun's family is considered a priority bilateral issue by your services, and that you can make sure that Belgium makes a clear reference to this issue during the economic mission to China organised this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u49	As you know, since the first few weeks of October, Iraq has experienced a wave of protests. These have been defined as spontaneous. The protestors' demands now lie in regime change, with the aim of redressing the regime and meeting the primary needs of the population. As a first step, these protests degenerated into violent confrontations. More than 250 civilians were reported to have died during the demonstrations, 70 per cent of whom were shot. It has been proved that some victims were shot dead by snipers who were neither part of the Iraqi demonstrators nor forces. These shooters could not be formally attached to a movement. Nevertheless, some protesters refer to the trail of Shiite militia snipers under the influence of Iranian revolution guards. As peace in the area is to be a priority for Belgium, I would like to ask you the following questions. Can Belgium confirm that the anti-government protest movement is not controlled by a religious leader, a local policy or driven from abroad, as some sources claim? Can Belgium confirm the presence of shooters who were neither part of the demonstrators nor official law enforcement forces during the events of October? Does Belgium support a hypothesis as to the ownership of these shooters? Why were the Iraqi law enforcement forces unable to protect the population or question these shooters? Have the Iraqi authorities deliberately not sought to protect the population or to arrest the shooters? What is Belgium's position in the face of the repression and inflection of the Iraqi government and in particular the use of tear gas grenades heavier than foreign ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u50	Mr Cogolati, as you know, Belgium has invested heavily in the development of the situation in Iraq through a military presence, not only of our F-16s in Jordan who were operating over Iraq and Syria as part of the fight against Daesh, but also as part of the training of the soldiers on the ground and accompanying them in their missions on the ground. We are always present in this context. As I mentioned in the Defence Committee, we will probably have an opportunity to step up our presence in the region next year. This is for the 2020 operations programme. With regard to the dramatic events currently taking place in the country, particularly in Baghdad, I can give you the following information and answers. Many people in Iraq consider themselves legitimate to interfere in the course of events, to express themselves on these demonstrations. They even try to get them back or influence their course. The protest movement in Iraq, however, is global and has many facets. It is therefore perilous to comment on the control that would be exercised by persons or third countries over such events, and in particular on the degree of such control. This does not mean that we do not believe that there is likely to be interference, but rather that we can indicate how far it is and what kind of participation it is more complex. In addition, several sources report that persons or entities operating outside government-controlled law enforcement agencies use force. And there are indeed victims to be deplored, as you mentioned. The consequence of the struggle against Daesh in the country is a proliferation of armed groups and militias. The Iraqi government is trying to bring them under its control, but in vain so far, it must be noted. Finally, reliable sources report the use of lacrimogen grenades that have led to disproportionate violence. As in other situations, Belgium condemns this disproportionate use unambiguously. It is always up to the authority to ensure that the use of violence is proportionate to the risk posed by the events involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u51	Question No 55001414C De Vriendt falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u52	Minister, in December, the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP25) should have been held in Chile. It has been displaced because of the ongoing social protest that has been taking place since at least Friday, 18 October, with a particularly severe and violent crackdown on President Sebastián Piñera's regime. Thousands of people have been arrested. There are dozens of gunshot wounds. The population's support for the movement is very strong. A survey by the Catholic University of Temuco indicated that 94 per cent of respondents were in favour of protestors' demands and 68 per cent were actively involved in the ongoing protest. Minister, can you tell me whether contacts have been made with the Embassy of Chile in Brussels or with the Chilean government? Has the Belgian Government already indicated certain requirements? What is Belgium's position on the sometimes disproportionate use of force against demonstrators?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u53	Mr President, Minister, in the face of an unprecedented social movement in Chile, the government has ordered the armed forces to ensure a curfew. The result so far: at least 18 deaths, 7,000 arrests, sexual abuse committed during arbitrary detentions. Chileans are demonstrating not only against expensive life, but against an aggressive neoliberal system that reproduces inequalities at all levels of society. Today, in Chile, the richest (1 per cent of the population) hold more than 26 per cent of the country's wealth, while workers and their families lack basic social services. Throughout the country, the very broad popular mobilization against these policies results in a massive presence on the street, especially against policies of privatization of education and health, and especially in the face of tax evasion and rising cost of living, which causes the indebtedness of families. All of this in the context of an unfinished democratic transition for 30 years, in a country where the Constitution is still a result of the dictatorship of Pinochet. It is a legitimate struggle, given popular support for these demands. Mr Minister, what is Belgium's position with regard to these demands and with regard to the repression carried out by the Chilean government? Is there an official position? Is there a condemnation by Belgium of this repression?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my services have discussed the social crisis in Chile both with the Chilean Ambassador and at European level in the relevant working group of the Council. In parallel with these meetings in Brussels, the ambassadors of the European Union accredited in Santiago were widely informed by Foreign Minister Ribera. These meetings show that all the political actors had not seen this crisis coming and were clearly surprised by the deep-seated discontent of the population. Both the government and the opposition have now come to the understanding that measures need to be taken to restore social peace and address inequality through better distribution of wealth. The Government is making every effort to respond immediately to a number of basic social needs and is discussing important legislative proposals with Congress, for example on raising the minimum wage and minimum pensions, labour legislation (progressive reduction of working time from 45 to 40 hours per week), tax legislation (increase in the tax rate for high incomes), and the cost of public facilities (common transport, toll roads). The government has promised to work towards structural reform of education (reducing university costs, increasing the quality and funding of public schools) and health care. However, these initiatives require more time and reflection. Their budgetary implications are important and should be carefully estimated. On 28 October, President Piñera also carried out a government recast with eight changes in the ministerial portfolios but only five new names among ministers. There can be no mention of the political shift that some people had hoped for. In addition to the social agenda, the government also announced a public order agenda with a series of legislative proposals and measures. A change to the Constitution is part of the solution, but President Piñera wants to give priority to social reforms. He wanted the constitutional reform to take place within the existing institutional framework, not through a new constituent but through a vote by Congress. The government also wants to set up a series of dialogues with citizens to better understand the wishes of the population. The protest movement has no clear leaders. It is not the case that the government can negotiate with specific groups or individuals. Belgium maintains very good bilateral relations with Chile and supports this social dialogue aimed at achieving a more inclusive society. However, Belgium regrets the loss of life and condemns any use of free violence by law enforcement officials and demonstrators. I am pleased that the Government wishes to investigate in full transparency every human rights violation and has invited the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to that end. The National Institute for Human Rights, an independent Chilean organization, has already initiated some 200 legal proceedings against law enforcement personnel. According to the Institute, violations are neither systematic nor orchestrated. The Government supports the work of this Institute. I regret that COP25 cannot continue in Chile, but understand President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I am very grateful that the Spanish Government has offered a solution to the location of COP25 in Madrid. The Presidency of COP25 remains in the hands of Chilean Minister Carolina Schmidt. The agenda, dates and substantive ambitions for COP25 also remain unchanged. I can only welcome this. It is a success for multilateralism that, even in the current difficult circumstances, international cooperation has been able to find a solution that ensures continuity and allows the global climate challenge to be given the necessary attention. With regard to the particular situation in Chile, we will, of course, continue to monitor this situation closely, both with regard to the prosecution of the excessive use of violence by law enforcement officials in particular, since, as I have said in other cases, it is primarily for the public authorities to exercise restraint in the proportional use of force. But above all, we will also be following the evolution of the dialogues that are taking place to see whether further reforms can really take place in the current situation in Chile.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u55	Minister, thank you for that answer. You mentioned some social reforms, particularly on the question of raising the minimum wage or pensions. At the same time, law enforcement reforms have been put in place, such as an increase in the air capacity of carabinieri and a protection status for law enforcement and security forces. This means that we continue with a logic of repression. Today, a social movement remains. This means that the measures that have been put in place are insufficient and do not meet the demands of the population. There is still a general strike in Chile and no profound change. We are talking about the replacement of some people, but we remain in the same logic. The Chilean people know this and continue to protest and protest. Minister, I asked you if you condemned this repression, this government policy. I have heard no clear answer as to Belgium's position on this. Is there any official condemnation by Belgium of the repression carried out by the Chilean government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u56	Minister, there have been many particularly important social challenges since February 2019. Protesters oppose the organisation by the army and the regime of the elections scheduled for 12 December. Why? Because the five successful candidates all have a very clear link to the current regime and no other candidate from civil society or other opposition parties emerges. What is Belgium's position in the face of the demands of the Algerian people? What is Belgium doing to support these pressing demands for more democracy in Algeria? Does Belgium condemn the current holding of elections in Algeria, including the absence of a non-regime candidate, and the regime's interference in the organisation of elections? How does Belgium intend to ensure the smooth running of these elections or alternative elections after 12 December?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u57	My colleague, Algeria is currently facing a major challenge and we note that the demonstrations have not lost their scope. Of course, we respect Algeria's sovereignty. However, this should not prevent us from advocating for an inclusive and broadly sustained dialogue, thus resuming the opposition, the current government, civil society and the various representatives of the protest movement in order to reach a political solution acceptable to all. The electoral process in Algeria is primarily the responsibility of Algerians. Everything that might look like interference should be avoided. This is the message that the actors are sending us. But at the moment, Belgium is working with its European partners on the parameters of a message that the European Union could make about the future Algerian elections. I hope that we will therefore be able to express our concern and our plea for this inclusive dialogue with all our European partners, but that is already the message Belgium is sending today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u58	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u59	Minister, as the newspaper Le Soir, published this morning, is echoing, the tension is rising with regard to the sprains made by Iran, which no longer respects all its commitments. The question, therefore, is whether the time for sanctions, at the risk of sinking the 2015 major non-proliferation agreement, has now arrived. Minister, what is Belgium's position on Iran's follow-up to the Vienna agreements? Is Belgium asking for a full return from Iran to the agreements or is it ready to make concessions to Iran? What is Belgium's strategy for Iran to comply with the Vienna agreements? Would Belgium be prepared to support a wider circumvention of the US sanctions allowing, for example, the Iranian oil trade? What is the limit that Iran must not cross for Belgium? In other words, what is the red line not to be crossed by Tehran?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u60	Mr President, Minister, on Monday, November 5, Iran announced that it had introduced new centrifuges to produce more enriched uranium. These activities will take place, as you know, in the Fordo plant about 150 km south of Tehran, which was at a standstill following the Vienna agreement. The declaration comes on the eve of the end of the 60-day deadline given to Europeans to help Iran circumvent the US sanctions against the oil and financial sectors, restored after the unilateral withdrawal of the US from the JCPoA. This is the fourth phase of Iran's commitment reduction plan launched in May, following the US turnaround. Since then, the country has resumed in stages its programme of research and development of nuclear technologies. Nevertheless, while IAEA's last quarterly report of 30 August identified some violations of the JCPoA, it also stated that the basic rules were still being respected. The issue of Iran and security in the Gulf region was on the agenda of yesterday's meeting of European Foreign Ministers. So, Minister, how do you react to this new stage in Tehran? What was our country's position at yesterday's Council? In addition, what is the situation with regard to the establishment of the INSTEX mechanism, which was adopted by the European Assembly on 28 June? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u61	Mr President, Belgium, as you know, remains committed to the nuclear agreement with Iran, which is a crucial element in ensuring the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear programme. We regret the withdrawal of the United States and support the continuation of the agreement through compliance with all provisions by the parties concerned. In this regard, of course, we are concerned about Iran's actions and we call on Iran to return to strict compliance with the provisions of the nuclear agreement. This is the position defended, including in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, and subsequently expressed by Mrs Mogherini. Transparency is crucial and the verifications undertaken by the IAEA serve this objective. It is imperative that IAEA maintain unimpeded access to the sites it wishes to visit, and that Iran provide comprehensive answers to the technical questions posed by the Agency. It is also important that Iran does not undertake actions that would allow it to substantially shorten the time needed to develop a nuclear weapon. We will therefore continue to rely on the Agency's analysis of Iran's compliance with the basic conditions of the nuclear agreement. I repeat: there is growing concern when we hear statements made in Tehran. Like other members of the European Union, Belgium is critical of the extraterritorial application of US sanctions as they challenge traditional international rules on the mutual demarcation of competences between States. Following the House's favourable opinion on INSTEX, in its resolution of 9 September, our country is continuing its efforts to accede to this instrument, taking into account the elements set out in this resolution, such as international developments and the position of European partners. Progress is being made at the technical and operational levels both in the development of INSTEX itself and in the official accession of Belgium. Our country maintains the desire to join this mechanism as soon as possible. We will therefore continue to work on this strengthening of the possibility of international trade with Iran, but on the condition, of course, that transparency and access to all sites allow the Agency to verify Iran's compliance with the commitments made in the nuclear agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u62	Mr Minister, I have heard that the United States is exerting maximum pressure on this issue and that the sanctions imposed by them are sometimes outside the international legal framework. I think it is really important to save diplomacy at all costs, to strengthen all trade opportunities and to maintain all opportunities for open discussions with the Iranian regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u63	Minister, on this issue, we must never lose sight of the fact that the starting point of this escalation was the unilateral American withdrawal. It's really the starting point. It must never be forgotten. From there, a policy of maximum pressure from Mr Trump's government was undertaken, to which Iran responded a policy of maximum resistance. So we are in a form of an arm with an on-line question: what must Europeans do in this arm of iron? I think – this is what Tehran says and expects – that the Iranians expect Europeans to give back other perspectives and other horizons and somewhere to compensate for the unilateral American withdrawal. As I said in the rostrum in plenary, INSTEX from this point of view must be as ambitious as possible. I know that it is difficult because we are between the hammer and the avil, between the desire to give Iran a chance to bring it back under the Vienna Agreement and, at the same time, we are somewhere trapped in our trade, economic and diplomatic relations with the United States. I understand that the equation is complicated, but it is time to show courage and ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u64	Minister, the Israeli Supreme Court ordered the expulsion of the representative of the NGO Human Rights Watch to Israel and Palestine. Without a further decision by the Israeli Government, he will have to leave the territory no later than 25 November. This representative, Mr. Omar Shakir, was the subject of a trial for supporting and relaying the boycott movement against Israel - an accusation that he and the organization he represents have always denied and challenged. As stated again this Monday in a press release, Human Rights Watch does not advocate Israel's boycott, but asks "businesses to assume their responsibilities for human rights by ceasing their commercial activities in settlements in the West Bank, which are considered illegal under international law". The Israeli Foreign Minister, who had decided to terminate the residence permit in May 2018, obviously welcomed the confirmation of his decision by the Supreme Court. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Minister, the following questions. Has Belgium taken a position on this matter? More generally, how does our country stand against this inflexible Israeli policy of clearly creating a climate of threat to international NGOs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u65	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, we are well aware of the situation of Mr Omar Shakir, the representative of Human Rights Watch in Israel and Palestine. My services in Brussels had the opportunity to meet him and discuss with him the importance of the work done by Israeli and Palestinian civil society, as well as by NGOs, and his personal situation. Our diplomats in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv have established a regular dialogue with him and have attended the various hearings of his trial. This demonstrates the importance Belgium attaches to dialogue with civil society. The work of the Commission, whether in Israel, in the Palestinian territory or in other latitudes, contributes to an environment conducive to peace and respect for human rights. The dynamism and plurality of civil society are part of a democratic and open society. It is essential that she can do her job without hindrance. The threat of expulsion of Mr. Shakir is an example of hostile action and policy against NGOs and human rights defenders. We expressed our concern to the United Nations Security Council last April at the monthly debate on the Middle East peace process. Together with our European partners, we are following these developments and calling on the Israeli Government to reverse its decision to revoke Mr Omar Shakir's work visa and to enable human rights defenders to carry out their legitimate activities. This is also the meaning of the communiqué issued this Monday 11 November by the European External Action Service, to which I fully subscribe and to which I refer you for further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u66	Mr Minister, I thank you for this answer which has the merit of being clear and in favour of respect for human rights. Today, the Israeli government no longer even pretends to want peace. It no longer even pretends to punish the gratuitous abuses and violence committed by settlers against Palestinian populations (racisttags, garbage dumps, destruction of olive trees, punitive expeditions, sometimes murders). We must never stop remembering this: the daily lives of Palestinians in Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza are daily humiliations, harassment, destruction of homes and cultures, and deaths. Today, Israel expels human rights defenders from its territory, even those who denounce these crimes in the face of the world. It thus joins the sinister club of countries that make humanitarian NGOs enemies to destroy or, in any case, silence. Many NGOs denounce a disturbing context of intimidation. I quote Roy Yellin of the B'Tselem organization when he says that the rights of Palestinians are being violated, those of humanitarians too, and soon it will be the turn of the Israelis who denounce the policy of the State. I know, Minister, how committed you are to the defence of human rights. You will soon leave your national office to join Europe. This is probably the last time I will have the opportunity to talk to you in this Parliament. Let me therefore ask you, by calling you "Mr Commissioner", to tell your European colleagues. Remind them that what the Israeli government is doing in the Palestinian territories is wrong! Tell them that from the feeling of injustice and humiliation will probably still arise rage and revolt, which will ruin the efforts of those who, every day, work for peace. Also remind your future colleagues that Europe has a historic responsibility in the birth of this conflict yesterday and, unfortunately, in its rotting today. Europe has a role to play. By assuming this role, it would not only serve the Palestinians who are suffering and dying, but also the Israelis who are unfortunately drowning in this populist national wave that has risen to the four corners of the world. Europe would mainly serve itself. This Europe, which is only too rarely at the turn of history! The polite speeches of Europeans are ineffective. You have to admit it. That impunity must cease.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u67	Mr President, Minister, in an interview he gave to the English magazine The Economist, French President Emmanuel Macron considers that NATO is in a state of brain death. He warned European countries that they could no longer trust the United States in their defence. He also stressed that "there is a need to clarify now what NATO's strategic objectives are". Minister, do you share this view? Do you think that Belgium should rethink its position on adherence to this Alliance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u68	Mr President, Mr Boukili, the French President granted an interview to The Economist magazine last week. The analysis he develops there is rich, quite complete and interesting. It deals with substantive issues facing Europe on both the internal and external fronts. This analysis contributes to the ongoing debate and is, in a way, a serious reminder for all members of the European Union. In this context, the choice of words diverts some attention from some arguments which remain very relevant. Belgium can support several points put forward by the French President during this meeting, including his observations on the geopolitical challenges facing the European Union and on the urgent need to strengthen our efforts in the field of European defence. In this regard, our country already fully supports the European intervention initiative and the European Defence Fund. We spoke about this again this morning in a meeting of the Council of European Ministers on defence, including with my French colleague Mrs Parly. As regards the acquisition of new capacity, decided by Belgium in the context of the implementation of the 2030 strategic vision, it was decided on the basis of a transparent and objective procedure. The Belgian decisions show that there is no commercial exclusivity within NATO. As for NATO in particular, it is true that several recent events underline the imperative need for frank discussion between Alliance leaders. I am thinking, for example, of the Turkish operation in northern Syria, and above all of the blatant lack of prior coordination with the other allies in the head of the United States and Turkey. The NATO Heads of State and Government meeting in London on 3 and 4 December will no doubt be an opportunity to return. At this stage, however, I would like to stress that the Atlantic Alliance is the only organisation capable of ensuring Europe's security in a credible way, both conventionally and nuclearly, and building on the necessary capabilities and interoperability. This afternoon we had a lunch with the NATO Deputy Secretary General and all European Defence Ministers, particularly in preparation for this meeting in early December. I would point out that the position is still the same with regard to Belgium. We want to strengthen the European defence approach as it has been initiated in recent years and is on the rise, as we have seen this morning through several projects – 13, I think – within the framework of the PESCO. We also hope that this strengthening of European defence will make it truly an important pillar in NATO. This debate will be very frank at the London meetings in early December. I repeat that this debate on strengthening European defence also requires budgetary decisions to be taken in each of the Member States. I have already had the opportunity to insist on this in both the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence. There is a strategic vision with a number of investments and there is also the necessary investment in infrastructure and human resources management for the coming years. When you participate in the next government majority, you will have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u69	Minister, we will be willing to participate as long as there is an ambitious political project to improve people's lives. We will then take on our responsibilities, we must not doubt it. Your answer does not reassure me despite the steps and ambition at European level. At the NATO level, the latest events are not reassuring. When one sees Turkey's approach and the contradictions between American interests and European interests, one wonders whether this alliance as it exists today still has any meaning at international level. Unfortunately, your answer does not appease our doubts at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u70	Mr.President, Minister, on October 29, 2019, five members of the indigenous Nasa community were murdered in northern Cauca in Tacueyo. As she was patrolling, the guardia indigena, an entity of the community mandated to ensure the security of the territories, was targeted by attacks by criminal armed groups. These killings are part of a broader context of violence against Afro-Colombian and peasant communities. According to Indepaz, the Institute of Studies for Development and Peace, 88 people were murdered between 1 January and 30 October 2019 in the Cauca region and the abuses are said to have accelerated since President Duque came to power. The various communities in the country have repeatedly informed the authorities of the attacks they were subjected to with the Government's only response, the militarization of the territories which is not perceived as an effective solution by the same communities in that it would only fuel the cycle of violence. Minister, what actions can Belgium take to help protect the indigenous populations of Colombia? What steps could Belgium take, within a European framework, towards the Colombian government, which is leading it to ensure the implementation of the peace agreement and, more specifically, the chapter on ethnic communities and resolution 464 which contains the lines to follow for family and community farming?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u71	Mr Ben Achour, I share your concern about the situation of human rights and indigenous peoples in Colombia. The peace agreement of 22 November 2016 between the FARC and the government explicitly mentions the rights of indigenous communities. Since its signature, more than 700 social leaders have been murdered, more than 20 per cent of whom are indigenous, while the indigenous population accounts for only 3 per cent of the country's population. Our country, both in its bilateral relationship and in multilateral fora, is committed to recalling the general principles of respect for human rights and the rule of law and to drawing the attention of the Colombian Government to the need to respect these fundamental rights. At the multilateral level, Colombia is the subject of quarterly discussions in the United Nations Security Council. In the last debate on 10 October, Belgium, as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, once again stressed the importance of the full implementation of the peace agreement, including rural reform, and stressed the strengthening of the security of social leaders, human rights defenders and former members of the FARC. At the June 2018 sessions of the Human Rights Council, Belgium also expressed its concern about violence against human rights defenders in Colombia. Belgium also made observations on the human rights situation in Colombia during the third universal periodic review on 10 May 2018. In particular, our country recommended recognizing and supporting the work of human rights defenders, and putting an end to attacks against this group of people. Our embassy also participated in the eleventh high-level dialogue on human rights between Colombia and the European Union, which took place on 8 April in Bogota. The European Union's Special Envoy, Eamon Gilmore, delivered a nuanced address to highlight the inseparability of respect for human rights and the peace agreement, with transitional justice as the cornerstone. In addition, on 7 October, my services received a delegation of human rights defenders from the Cauca department. The aim of the visit was to raise the awareness of the European Union and Belgium of the humanitarian crisis experienced by the indigenous peoples of the region. During the debriefing of the UN verification mission, on 30 October 2019, our Ambassador in Bogota also expressed his concern at the deterioration of the human rights situation in the department of Cauca where our NGOs, Broederlijk Delen and Humanity & Inclusion are active. Belgium will continue to monitor closely the human rights situation in Colombia. In this context, my central administration and the Belgian Embassy in Bogota continue to maintain good contacts with civil society. Moreover, if necessary, our country will act both bilaterally and in the context of the European Union or within the framework of multilateral forums. The peace agreements had, at one point, been positive in the context of the development of the situation, not only in Colombia but also practically throughout Latin America. A number of questions asked today – we could have asked about Bolivia or Venezuela, for example – show that, unfortunately, there is still a lot of work to be done to have an inclusive dialogue situation and to protect a number of actors, in particular the most vulnerable, within these different societies. For the rest, thank you for taking the time to listen to my answer to the end. I was able to have someone in the room in front of me until the end of the commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u72	Thank you, Minister. It was the least of all things to stay to hear your answer. Indeed, there is still a lot of work. The important thing is to have a course. This course must be based on respect for human rights and fundamental rights. It is important that you can recall this, especially since the barely hidden agenda of the attackers is known. It is a question of taking control of territories to develop other types of necessarily income-generating activities: mining, agro-industry and drug trafficking. Let us therefore pay close attention to what is happening there. Will you come back to committee again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u73	At the request of your president, I have to go to China to deal with a case. As I told you, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, I'll be in the United States. So, between those visits or right after, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u74	If that is not the case, I would like to wish you good luck and good work in your new duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u75	Thank you very much. And you can do it on behalf of a majority of the committee, since you are two. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic049x.u76	Thank you, Minister. Once again, I wish you every success in this future role for Europe.
