ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u1	Colleagues, we welcome the Minister in our midst. We are dealing today with a number of oral questions addressed to the Minister. I propose that we start with the questions put together by Mr Ravyts and Mrs Van der Straeten on the capacity compensation mechanism. This has just been discussed in the presence of the people of Elijah and the CREG, but these questions obviously also have a political dimension. That is why the Minister will reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u2	Mr President, my question is also partly related to the joint questions put by Mr Wollants and Mr Ben Accour on the agenda under item 7. Maybe it's an option that brings together questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u3	Okay. Let us merge points 4 and 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u4	Madam Minister, my oral question was not specifically focused on this. I had first tabled a written question on Elijah's new study. Last week, when Mr Wollants made a passionate intervention in the plenary session, Mr President, during your absence as President-in-Office, which he did not like, on the need to consider in this new committee the report presented to us this morning by Elijah, I decided to turn my question into an oral question without delay. I'm allowed to bite off here now. Madam Minister, Elijah's new report states that the accelerated coal exit in neighbouring countries reduces the possibility of importing electricity in periods of scarcity. This was somewhat nuanced by the CREG in the last few hours. Elia therefore insists that the envisaged CRM should continue to be developed. According to Elia, even according to Flemish Interest, there is an unwise full nuclear exit planned by 2025, an additional need for capacity of more than 1 gigawatt. This applies for the period from 2022 to 2025. Madam Minister, then there is also the debate on the mechanism of strategic reserves, which was only approved until the winter of 2021-2022. As has just been said, we must also take into account the issue of additional capacity requirements in the notification of the CRM to the European Commission in December 2019. What mechanism is used? Integration into CRM, therefore, early auctions, or extension of strategic reserves? My questions about the royal decisions have, of course, already been partially answered by the people of Elijah and the CREG. Perhaps you can be even more specific about how far you stand and what aspects these RBs relate to. Of course, the question remains whether the notification procedure can certainly be initiated in December. We are not going to talk about the volumes because Elia's study has nothing to do with the 3.9 gigawattuur. We don't know what volumes should be there for those auctions yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u5	Madam Minister, in the last Elia Task Force, it has become clear that the planning of notification to the European Commission will be maintained on 19 December 2019. This means that the necessary QAs must be taken in advance, both in terms of methodology and market rules. That timing is necessary to allow the auctions to take place in 2021. A few days ago, a consternation arose about the participation of a former cabinet employee of yours in Elijah's task force for a market player. You spoke critically about this in the press and pointed out that there was a risk of breach of the principle of non-discrimination. According to the press, you would have had specific contact with the market player in question. I come to my questions for clarification. Firstly, in what sense has the principle of non-discrimination been violated? Or, in other words, does the employee have knowledge of other market players that could lead to ENGIE being favoured in this case as regards the procedure? Secondly, do you intend to take additional measures regarding a cooling-off period for switching from the cabinet to market players or vice versa? This may be inspired, for example, by the provisions already contained in the Electricity Act today as regards the independence of the CREG Management Committee. Finally, there is the timetable. Can this be achieved in a period of current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u6	Mr. President, Minister, the press indicates that a former advisor in your strategic cell would now be employed by Electrabel. He was, within your firm, in charge of the support mechanism for the construction of new power generation capacities and he would now deal, in the same case, on behalf of Electrabel. This is an obvious conflict of interest situation, when we know that Electrabel is a candidate to benefit from this support mechanism. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? What lessons do you learn in terms of ethics? Is there a risk of distortion of competition given the deadlines that lie ahead? If so, what measures do you intend to take to address this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u7	Mr President, Minister, as we have been able to read in the newspapers recently, one of your closest colleagues recently joined ENGIE. He followed up on your cabinet, among other things, the CRM file, in particular its elaboration. Such an operation raises a lot of questions. After all, to what extent has this person been involved in gathering information about, for example, other market players? Was he involved in the preparation of the further substantive functioning, which would benefit one market player? Madam Secretary, you responded in the press after the man in question was sent to meetings on the CRM. That raises a number of questions. Do you believe that this is an acceptable situation? What steps have you taken in relation to ENGIE at the moment and what is its outcome? Will you take any further steps? Do you believe that a legislative initiative is necessary in order to avoid such a situation in the future? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to presenting the CRM to the European Commission by December 2019. We continue the work started in November 2018 so that the draft implementing decrees are sufficiently finalized to interact with the European Commission. The composition of the Commission will change not only at the level of administration, but also at the level of ownership, since the current European Commissioner, Mrs Vestager, may be replaced. His successor will be asked to explain his vision of things. In any case, the framework law presented to Parliament and voted in the context of current affairs last April received the approval of the European Commission, which had worked with us to achieve the stabilisation of the text that was presented to you. The European Commission, as you will have understood, supports Belgium's attitude in seeking all possible solutions to supply production capacity. As far as people's questions are concerned, you heard one of the speakers say that two employees were in the same situation and had joined ENGIE Electrabel. On the one hand, he is a collaborator who worked in my firm, Ruben Laleman, and on the other hand, a collaborator who worked at PwC, Aart Geens. I recall that PwC was designated by a public procurement to prepare the first study that we commissioned two years ago, if I remember correctly. This study focused on the development of a future CRM in Belgium. According to my analysis, ENGIE Electrabel is losing strength from the moment she cannot ignore that her collaborators have both worked on the capacity compensation mechanism. I told them that it was a gross mistake to involve, little or no interested parties in the working meetings on the drafting of these implementing orders. To answer the question that has been asked, my answer will be the same as that given to Mrs Fonck, namely that these implementing orders relate to a methodology of the public contracts that will be launched, the configuration of the public contracts and the way in which the CRM will be financed. Indeed, a number of financings are possible. Traditionally, this revolves around financing that comes either from the consumer, or from the consumer and/or businesses and/or from the state budget. This reflection must be sufficiently advanced, but must also be linked to that of the European Commission, which is concerned with the question of whether or not Belgian legislation in this field will be compatible with the rules of European competitiveness. I come back to the two specific questions that were asked to me by Mr Wollants and Mrs Van der Straeten: the employee in question did not have the opportunity to read sensitive information from other operators. It is there, and only there, that the problem lies, since the person concerned was then in an awkward situation. I recalled that, in order to be strict, direct and sharp, I did not wish these two employees to now participate in these meetings. I had reported this to ENGIE, stating that an evaluation would then be organised. I am in the process of having a legal study on this subject, which I will have the opportunity to share with you as soon as it is completed. This problem often occurs. In my view, it is much more delicate when it comes to reporting in the other direction, that is, when collaborators join ministerial offices. Moreover, the latter will one day be established once the federal government has itself been formed. These people are not plethora in such technical fields. That is why we see frequent visits and arrivals between firms, administrations and private operators. In my view, these movements must be strictly supervised, so that it cannot be suspected that any sector would benefit from sensitive and confidential information. To this end, we can imagine legal formulas, which would be capable of installing airlocks in time. This may be similar to the non-competition obligations that employees who leave an employer have to comply with. This is because there are also several operators active in the same market. For this reason, mandatory non-competition periods are included in the employment contract. In short, we can start thinking about such solutions. However, it is important to keep in mind that to be well equipped - in both the private and the public - it is better to be surrounded by the best professionals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u9	Mr President, Minister, the financial impact of the CRM system will of course be very important. You also referred to it briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections have made it clear that the people of Flanders are in favour of security of supply and, above all, of affordability of the energy bill. The ecorealists have won. It is not unimportant to think about this in this committee. Madam Minister, it is very important for you, as well as for the next federal government, to avoid an overestimate of the necessary volumes around the CRM system. Although there is no precise calculation yet, the CREG mentioned 7 to 11 euros per megawatt hour. The CREG also mentioned 650 million euros per year in spring 2019. That was then translated into EUR 30 per family by my colleagues from the N-VA. I also believe that the N-VA did not approve the framework law because it did not want to issue a blank cheque. I am simply quoting the words of the largest party in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. I agree with you that we should look for a general arrangement, not only in your policy area but also in other policy areas. As you point out, it has to be done from one direction to another and vice versa. My group tabled a legislative proposal on this matter during the previous parliamentary term. The subject has also been addressed in the Working Party on Political Renewal, in particular on the buffer period. In the Working Party on Political Renewal, everyone agreed that it is obviously necessary to find the most qualified people and not to prevent them from getting to work. However, a consensus has yet to be reached on the buffer period. Thereafter approval may be granted. Mr President, Minister, this is certainly a subject that we can develop further in the context of political renewal, because it will ultimately only benefit the robustness of our political work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. I stress your intention to clarify the relationship between the public and private sectors. You're talking about a legal analysis that you ordered. When will you get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u12	I don't know because I ordered it very recently and we're on a legal holiday. So I won't be able to answer you until I get back to school.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. We look forward to the legal analysis. Since you will give us this, I think it would be interesting to continue working on it in Parliament. Of course, I remain interested in the further elaboration of the CRM dossier. That system is potentially about huge amounts of money. You may recall that the entire financing model was discussed during the previous legislature, but those texts did not succeed. It will be particularly important to keep that under review so that we know what we are talking about. You will also remember that, according to the first agreements on the Energy Pact, the purchasing power of families would not be affected, that the companies would not have to pay anything and that, as it turned out afterwards, the government did not have much sense to contribute. I don't think that picture's gonna make any sense. We will thus resume this debate so that we know what this is about, what volumes it is about and whether such an impact on our purchasing power and our companies is justified. There is certainly a follow-up to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u14	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question concerns the project of ENGIE Electrabel to build a new dry storage warehouse for spent nuclear fuels in Tihange. The public investigation has just ended this Friday. The question therefore falls perfectly to the point. Since the life of the plant has been extended, the current storage pool obviously comes to saturation. Without a long-term solution for the storage of nuclear waste, ENGIE Electrabel is obliged to build a hangar for a minimum life of 80 years. Minister, when you read the full file available on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA) website, there are several questions that arise today. First of all, they relate to the particularly long lifespan, an element also raised by ONDRAF in its opinion. I would like to ask you what measures and actions you expect from ENGIE Electrabel in order to control and reduce, as far as possible, the uncertainties and risks inherent in such a long period. For example, ONDRAF questions whether it is realistic, after 80 years of storage, to consider transporting nuclear waste that is stored and assembled in drums weighing 120 tonnes per unit. Would it be realistic to transport drums of 120 tonnes, particularly radioactive, dating back to 1939, i.e. 80 years old? In addition, how can we justify the warehousing being designed for a life of at least 80 years, while the neutron shielding of packaging is designed for 50 years? Then I come to the size of the hangar. How do you explain that the project building is more than double the size required? It would take 53 locations to store all the spent nuclear fuels required until 2025, but here ENGIE Electrabel is planning a building with a minimum of 117 locations, more than double. As for safety standards, what are the limit values in force in Belgium for the temperatures of the dry-environment assembly ducts? Do they exist? Do you accept that ENGIE Electrabel does not take into account, in its preliminary safety report, the most extreme disaster scenarios, including the fall of a cargo plane – e.g. a Boeing 747/8 – like those landing at Liège Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u15	Mr President, honourable Member, I am going to disappoint you, but it is not within my power to answer your question because, as far as safety is concerned, it must be asked of the Minister of the Interior. In our democratic system, it is of course essential that no pressure be exerted on a security body by a minister – I, in this case – who is looking for all the means to produce electricity through power plants that generate the question that you are asking today. I see that you are very well informed and that you have consulted the complete file at your disposal on the AFCN website. In addition, I would say that probably – but perhaps I am wrong – the Minister of the Interior could tell you that while the investigation is under way, he is not in a position to answer you now. Indeed, when the AFCN conducts its investigation, it is not "possible" to obtain precise answers to the legitimate questions you ask yourself. However, I would ask you to ask my colleague from the Interior. We will meet again on other issues in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u16	Minister, thank you for that answer. I shall of course also question the Minister of the Interior. I simply note that ENGIE Electrabel already provides in its application for a licence not to comply with the law of exit of nuclear energy by doubling the capacity of its dry storage warehouse. I believe that there is an energy issue here in terms of the future of nuclear power in Belgium. Does the Belgian Minister of Energy agree that ENGIE Electrabel will not comply with the law on the release of nuclear energy in its spent nuclear fuel storage plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u17	This is a question to be asked of ENGIE Electrabel. In any case, the previous discussion and exchange are proof of this, we know that in Belgium we are maintaining ourselves on an exit from nuclear power in 2025. An operator could not deploy power plants beyond what the law provides, which is why we are actively working on a capacity compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u18	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u19	Madam Minister, perhaps I should like to apologize in advance, because today is only 15 July, and it is of course today that the national survey on the design of the National Energy and Climate Plan is coming to an end. The question can be asked whether Article 10 of the Governance Regulation, which provides for effective public participation in drawing up the final plans, has actually been complied with in this respect. In the online survey, the actual plan is not the subject of the consultation, the presentation of the plan is not transparent and is put away rather than presented. The final Energy and Climate Plan should be submitted to the European Commission on 31 December 2019. The Commission published a recommendation on the draft on 18 June 2019. The Commission has comments on the level of ambition for 2030 which it considers to be too low and not expressed according to the formula set out in Regulation 2018/1999. The renewable energy targets are the subject of questions as well as energy security measures, deepening cooperation in the Pentalateral Energy Forum, investment needs, information on energy subsidies and the integration of fair and equitable transition aspects. So it was a bulky document. The verdict was harsh. So there is still a lot of work to be done at a time when it is far from certain that we will have new governments at all levels in Belgium. I have the following questions. How many responses were received in the context of the public survey, both in the context of the online survey and in relation to the general and additional comments, of course as regards the federal sub-plan? What follow-up has been given today to the European Commission's recommendations? Was an assessment made of what recommendations would or would not be followed and how would that be justified? I refer to Article 9.3 of the governance regulation. Finally, what is the working method in the context of current cases, including in cooperation with the Regions, for example the climate and energy dialogue, to be organised under Article 11 of the Governance Regulation, inter alia between the different levels of policy and with the different stakeholders?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u20	Mr President, Minister, at the end of 2018, Belgium forwarded to the European Commission its first draft of an Integrated National Energy-Climate Plan for the period 2021-2030. The European Commission's assessment has recently been made public. The least we can say is that Belgium needs to review its copy. As far as greenhouse gas emissions are concerned, the Belgian plan lacks ambition. The additional measures to be taken are not described with sufficient precision, while the measures currently in place lead to a reduction of our emissions by only 13% in 2030 compared to 2005. However, our target is a reduction of 35%. With regard to renewable energy, our country needs to significantly increase its renewable energy ambition to achieve a 25% reduction in consumption by 2030. The current figure in the Belgian plan, which is 18.3%, is insufficient for the European Commission. A serious effort will therefore be needed. Belgium must also highlight its ambition to reduce final energy consumption and take additional measures to achieve additional energy savings by 2030. Finally, and this is no surprise, the Commission criticizes the lack of coordination between the Federal and the Regions. Minister, what answers do you intend to give to this very critical assessment of the European Commission? What changes do you propose to make to the final version, which should be notified to the European Commission at the end of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u21	As for your first question, Mrs Van der Straeten, on Friday 12 July at 2 p.m., a total of 60 113 people had completed the online survey. 75.3 % was Dutch, 24.4 % French and 0.3 % German. A significant number of 19 499 respondents, or 32.4 %, also expressed an open question with up to 3 000 words of additional comment via the fill-in window at the end. The 8 other short open questions that were the last answer option to a question responded, depending on the question, to 4 280 to 22 539 respondents. These figures may represent a small overestimate, since they are merely a census of the answers where something was filled in. Questions where nothing was filled in will be counted as "no comment. In addition, we received 319 e-mails with comments in the general mailbox and 86 e-mails with comments in the federal mailbox. This census shows the state of play on Friday 12 July at 2 pm and includes only the mails with content. For the time being, I have no idea of the content of the responses to the questions on federal powers, nor of the content of the responses to the open questions or to the e-mails. The processing and analysis of this will be carried out by an external agency, in cooperation with my administration. This exceptional response rate for such a political planning document, which has only been advertised by social networks, is already in itself a very important indicator of citizens' interest and interest in government action in the field of climate and energy. In response to your second question and to Mrs Hanus on the follow-up to the recommendations, the Commission made specific recommendations to Belgium. These are currently being analysed by the ENOVER PNEC Steering Group, a particular steering group within a body called CONCERE, which is specifically dedicated to the National Energy-Climate Plan. With regard to the European Union, discussions on the general communication have been initiated at the level of the technical working groups and the Council for which intra-Belgian coordination has taken place through the existing consultation channels. You will understand that, but in order to simplify this somewhat technocratic language, I would say that we are interacting with the Commission and that we are currently working on the development of responses to the recommendations it makes to us. With regard to intra-Belgian coordination, the Commission commented on its recommendations and the process of finalising the plans is under way in technical groups. We should be aware that the Commission tells us that it does not immediately provide for bilateral commitments with the Member States or at their request. Indeed, at one point, I had imagined – as has been said – that at the outset, precisely in the context of the informal exchange between the European Commission and Belgium, we could make sure that we would already raise our ambitions, at all levels of power in Belgium, but, for the moment, there is no plan to act in this way and to make bilateral commitments at the request of the country concerned or at the request of the Commission. As you pointed out, the Commission has made a number of recommendations on the organisation of policy in our country. Please be aware that the Commission is fully aware of the Belgian institutional peculiarity. On many occasions, it has the opportunity to see that all levels of power concerned, inter alia, with environmental and energy policies, must agree to adopt a clear position to be expressed in the body concerned, in this case when the Ministers of Environment and Energy, for example, meet, and it knows that sometimes this results in results that do not necessarily correspond to what certain levels of power say or want to do in Belgium. Unfortunately, it is always the smallest common denominator that is chosen, and in fine, expressed, often by the federal government. I refer to the unfortunate episode of December 4, 2018. Belgium, in view of the non-alignment of the Regions with the federal desire to increase energy efficiency and renewable energy efforts, was forced to say that the lowest common denominator was no. Finally, the other European states, which are centralized, have voted in majority for these directives, which will in any case be directly applicable in our territory. Our federalism of cooperation does not provide for a hierarchy, not even for a better functioning. There is no level of power which, for any matter, would be seen, anticipated or even designated by law as having the last word. We are still in a situation of competition and equality. This is certainly a good thing, and it can work when everyone has the same opinion. Unfortunately, however, this leads to malfunctions when this is not the case. That is why, in reality, the National Energy-Climate Plan is an addition of wishes from the three regions and the federal government, not a fully integrated text. The Commission has seen it very quickly, since it is used to it. We must therefore be able to work more to integrate these different visions, especially since we have managed to do so for the Interfederal Energy Pact. As the adjective "inter-federal" indicates, we have agreed on a full text. It is also one of the texts on which Elia relied to carry out the study that we were talking about earlier. I am referring to consultation and climate governance for Federal Belgium. We lack tools, still to this day. This was also highlighted in the debate on climate law, just before the election period. I believe that we can and should continue to seek the best balance between the different powers within the Belgian institutional framework in order to produce more integrated texts. We must do so, already at the moment, even in the absence of a text to impose anything on one or the other level of power, thanks to Europe's recommendations and according to how we deal with them. In response to the question concerning Article 11 of the Governance Regulation, each Member State shall establish a dialogue on climate and energy at different levels, in accordance with its national rules. I just explained this to myself at length. National plans can be discussed in this dialogue. Intrabelgian coordination exists. It's not a vain word. It exists above all, and better, it seems to me, through the administrations. It relates to the National Energy-Climate Plan and takes place through this steering committee, which is housed on the ENOVER-CONCERE platform, where all federal and regional entities in the country are represented. The approach and coordination of initiatives to respond to the Commission must continue in this place. They fall within the mandate given to this group by the various entities to the administrative representatives working in this group. The national public consultation was coordinated within this sub-working group. This group includes many sub-working groups. It's a little tiring, but that's how it is. They have set up a group dedicated to communication, which has dealt with this communication, and which has generated all the citizen inquiries that I have just made to you a strict accounting. In addition to this national public consultation, you need to know that we must also work with the countries around us. We need to question them to work with them on a regional level. This will begin in September. Once we have collected all these lessons, it will be up to us to enrich our text with them, and to continue our interaction with Europe, in order to deliver a final text. This will be our road map until 2030. That's all I can tell you, in every detail, to this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u22	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Together with you, I am glad that so many people have already participated. No doubt people have waited until the last moment, so today, to send in comments and notes. I'm looking forward to the qualitative analysis. Mr President, I would like to ask you to be able to discuss this in detail in committee as well. Our climate plan is a sum of several sub-plans, but it can be so much more. I hear it said that the administration is working well and read between the lines that politics might be a little less so. We may be able to hold a committee meeting with the committees from other parliaments in the framework of federal cooperation and the drawing up of a national climate plan consisting of several sub-plans. In order to ensure coherence, perhaps we can come together in a joint session with colleagues from the Walloon Parliament, the Brussels Parliament and the Flemish Parliament. I know there is no such thing, but voluntarism is not strange to us. Given the urgent climate problems, this is a good exercise to make. It might also help the ministers to take a position on the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u23	This could be a suggestion for our work from the beginning of September.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answers and the clarifications you provided. It goes without saying that future changes must be ambitious and precise. I therefore hope that the consideration of the recommendations and the amendments will help to achieve the European objectives, if not more, in the light of the climate emergency that we are facing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u25	Minister, the ubiquitous presence of plastic in our lives is accompanied by huge amounts of waste that is spread in the environment, both on land and at sea. At the global level, between 5 and 13 million tonnes of plastic are produced in the oceans each year, i.e. between 1.5 and 4 per cent of the world's production. Almost half of this pollution comes from single-use plastic waste (small packaging, bags, lids, straws, cutlery, etc.).). The average manufacturing time of these objects is a second, their average usage time is twenty minutes and their lifetime on this planet is centuries! Transported by sea currents to the most remote areas of our planet, they degrade the abyss and shorelines and destructure ecosystems where an immense plastic continent drifts under the oceans. These wastes are a real disaster for biodiversity and cause the death of many marine animals. Betting on a change in spontaneous behaviour of consumers, distributors or producers is illusory. Only collective awareness of the seriousness of the problem is insufficient. The urgency now calls for binding action by States. At the current rate, in 2050, we will have doubled the amount of plastic present on our planet and the weight of plastic in the seas and oceans will be equivalent to that of the entire marine fauna. Faced with this immense challenge, Europe has adopted a directive banning certain single-use plastics from 2021 onwards. About ten product categories are affected by this measure, including oxodegradable plastics, which break down into microparticles and integrate into animal and human food chains with the deadly consequences we know today. Minister, how are you going to transpose this ban into our country? Would it not be necessary to go further by banning products not provided for in this directive, which are not indispensable and which seriously pollute our planet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u26	Mr President, Mr President, thank you for your question, which I am very sensitive to. As you have noted, our country, like all other Member States, must transpose the directive into Belgian law by 3 July 2021. This transposition will occupy us for some time to hold the timing, also knowing that these matters are shared between the levels of power. I am referring to the answer I gave to the previous question. What has been done in Belgium? We didn't cross arms and we were active. Before dealing with the Belgian case, I shall first begin with the international level. It is well known that single-use plastic pollution affects countries in the South and Asia more than Belgium, where waste harvesting and sorting are particularly well organised, with various recycling channels at the cutting edge. This does not mean that we must not make efforts. It is simply to situate Belgium in the concert of nations. I have supported various initiatives to reduce the marketing and use of single-use plastics. You know, I'm telling you so that it's very specific in your mind, that the federal government is responsible for what's on the market while the Regions are responsible for the use that's made of plastic. It sometimes complicates things. In the previous months, some discussions and regulations have been taken in a chaotic manner between the levels of power, which does not allow for a sufficiently efficient attitude throughout the country. We must therefore also be able to reflect on how we organize ourselves in this area. It should be noted that Belgium has acceded to the Declaration of the circular plastic alliance for sustainable management of plastics, an initiative of Peru. In Belgium, we are sensitive to the issue; we do a lot of things but not always in a coordinated way. There is therefore no need to increase the number of regulations. Sectors must always be coordinated and not just federated entities. It must always be borne in mind that the world of producers, distributors and recyclers must always be able to take ownership of the problem and have periods of transition. What are we going to do with microplastics? We have obtained from the Detic platform, which brings together almost all cosmetic producers, the prohibition - by the end of this year - of microplastics in oral and cosmetic hygiene products. Indeed, these materials circulate without any difficulty in the pipes to reach the sea and are ingested by crustaceans, fish, etc. It may not be as serious as plastics that choke turtles or some large fish and mammals; however, within the food chain, we still end up eating them. We have achieved this agreement much more effectively than with regulation, through consultation with the sector. This administrative work is still ongoing and is supported by numerous studies. I am thinking of GO4CIRCLE, set up in 2018 for three years, which has helped to strengthen links with producers, distributors and recyclers. That should be stressed. Other products, such as substitutes for single-use plastics, can also be discussed and their placing on the market with a view to measuring their environmental impact. It is not realized that a lot of consumer products come from plastic or its derivatives, hence from petroleum derivatives. A very in-depth analysis must be made of what alternative materials we could and should use. Work continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u27	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. We agree: the transposition of the European directive must become an opportunity for us to reflect in depth and, why not, to go as far as possible. In any case, ambition is shared. You rightly stress the need to involve the sector and you also mention possible substitutes for plastic. It is our role to support technological innovation in the search for new types of plastic. There are algae or corn-based plastics that can be interesting solutions and much less polluting than "petrochemical" plastics. We agree and will support any ambitious initiative on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u28	Minister, the European Union requires 13% renewable energy in 2020 and 32% renewable energy in 2030. We are just 9%, so it is essential to speed up the deployment of renewable energies in general and offshore wind in particular. The federal goal is to develop 2,200 megawatts of offshore wind in the North Sea by 2020 and an additional 1,750 megawatts by 2030. To this end, we have passed a law to introduce a procedure for the competition of operators for the granting of new State concessions in the North Sea. Minister, I would like to take stock of the development of wind turbines in the North Sea. What capabilities are operational to date? Will the target of 2,200 megawatts be achieved by 2020? How is the introduction of the auction for new state-owned concessions going forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u29	MP, in 2019, about 1.6 gigawatt of offshore wind will be operational in the Belgian North Sea, after the completion of the construction of the wind farms of Rentel (about 903 megawatts) and Norther (about 970 megawatts). On May 16, 2019, you will have noticed that with the minister of the North Sea, I had the opportunity to visit the offshore modular network (MOG), which is the switching platform in the North Sea allowing the connection of offshore wind farms cables to the Belgian land network, that is to say the last three parks. The topside – the upper part above the foundations – was installed on the carrier structure in April. This installation marks the respect of the schedule and even a slight advance on the said schedule in the head of Elias. In 2020, approximately 2.1 to 2.3 gigawatts – the 1,600 megawatts mentioned above being included – of wind turbines will be operational in the North Sea, following the completion of the following wind farms: Northwester 2 (23 wind turbines of 9.5 megawatts for a total of 219 megawatts), Seastar (30 wind turbines of 8.4 megawatts for a total of 252 megawatts) and Mermaid (28 wind turbines of 8.4 megawatts for a total of 235 megawatts). These last two parks have now merged and are now called Seamade. Given the economic maturity of the technology, the government has managed to drastically reduce consumer support for the construction of the last three parks by 2020. In this negotiation, the consumer earns 4 billion euros, which is not neutral! As a result, the Government has managed to deploy large quantities of renewable capacity in a massive and rapid manner, which is more favourable for the climate, and much more efficient at sea than on land. Indeed, the load rate is 40 per cent at sea, while it is 25 per cent on land. In addition, this has provided skilled employment and new jobs for the future to many of the companies that have developed real expertise. It is also valued in other countries by our companies. I hope, of course, that we will continue on this path, which is essential for the climate. As you will understand, this is the most effective and promising path. It is all the more so since we could very well arrange for a second take at sea, which would make it possible to connect to other offshore wind farms in the countries around us, be it Germany, Denmark, Holland, England, or even northern countries such as Finland or Norway. This is also reflected in Elia's plans. From the moment that abundant energy flows through our seas, we can, together with the TSOs, ensure that it is distributed where it is needed, at the lowest price. The maturity of technologies makes it possible today. This is valid for the wave of Belgian wind turbines 2020-2030, on the basis of public procurement this time. We will be able to involve competition, allowing us to obtain the best prices. What is the visibility of the launch of these public procurements? A framework text was recently voted. We continue to work on this, a little along the lines of what you heard earlier about the capacity compensation mechanism. There is obviously a need to develop public procurement in order to achieve this result: the best competition for the cheapest energy, with the most advanced technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-15-55-commissie-ic001x.u30	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. Like you, we can rejoice at the efficient and promising nature of wind in the North Sea. Similarly, we can welcome this EUR 4 billion gain as well as compliance with the schedule. All this bodes well.
