ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u2	By letter of 26 June 2019, the Attorney General of the Ghent Court of Appeal provided documents in order to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution of one of our colleagues under article 59 of the Constitution. By letter of 26 June 2019, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Ghent to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents were referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents were sent to the Commission for the Prosecutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u4	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u5	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, normally we did not have to stand here. After all, a budget was tabled last year, but part of the crew left the ship while the quay was in sight. The budgetary situation of our country calls for serious, not political jousts. What is before us today is a draft for the third series of provisional appropriations. It is not a draft budget which initiates major measures and new policies. However, it is a design that makes it possible to pay the bills and suppliers. As a Belgian government, we cannot fail to meet citizens and businesses. Open Vld therefore approves this bill. However, let us be serious. The budget deficit remaining at 3.1 % of GDP in 2014 fell to 0.7 % in 2018. However, we expect the Monitoring Committee's estimates for the current year shortly. The previous government has not been able to complete the journey because of the fall of the government, which means that we have lost a costly year on the budget and have not been able to take the structural measures necessary in the long term to ensure balance in the budget. The explanation why the budget could not be approved in December remains incomprehensible to me and to many, and costs the community a lot of money. Today, therefore, we must discuss how we avoid losing another year. The saying that current affairs is the best way to keep a budget on track is no longer true. Ascending ageing costs and a flattening of economic growth ensure that the deficit grows in times of current business rather than decline. Let me also be clear, as in last week's committee meeting: post-electoral games about indexing the donation for the royal family or discussions about the cabinets are not only based on false information, they are not helping us either. I would like to make a few points about this. Indexing is a principle of "except where certain parties that fundamentally question "all', for all personnel-related costs, and the donation is essentially staff-related costs. As far as the operating budgets of the Cabinets are concerned, I no longer understand what is being said in committee. It shouldn't be much crazy. Have some Cabinets been given more budget? Yes. If some ministers had to take over additional powers, they would need more funding, but this was always accompanied by serious savings. Moreover, the employees of the Cabinets were entitled to a redundancy allowance. I don't think there's any question about this either. The proof of the pudding is in the eating . A small example, the budget of the De Croo cabinet increased by EUR 200 000, while the Van Overtveld cabinet, of the former finance minister, had a budget of EUR 700 000. In short, this is a saving of EUR 500 000. Cabinet budgets have fallen by EUR 5 million as a result of the fall of the government. Instead of losing us in such bogus debates, I do not want to repeat myself, our attention must go to the budgetary challenge ahead. How do we solve a structural deficit by 2024? If we do nothing, it will rise to 2,6% of GDP. For the better understood, since half of GDP is public expenditure, this means that if we do nothing, the government as a whole will have 5% more expenditure than the revenue. The bill for federal policy is not yet included. The answer will undoubtedly consist of many aspects. It is time for us to work on this. For that, we need a strong government. I hear a lot of parties here over the last few days talking about what can be done, who should talk to whom and who should not be talking to. It would be a good thing for the parties who have received the great mandate to sit at the table in each part of the country. They have been given a mandate to ensure that this country is also governed by federal law. This is the only way to act decisively to meet the budgetary challenges. It is not just about this year's budget, about the plans for the next few years, but also about safeguarding the future of the next generation, social security, harmony, cooperation, entrepreneurial spirit and the success of this country. That's why Open Vld is always a constructive partner. We shall be voting for these provisional appropriations with conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr Leysen, as the oldest member, was the chairman of the Finance Committee on duty, for which I thank him, and I would also like to congratulate him most warmly on his maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be able to speak on behalf of the country's second largest political party. In the newly elected Parliament we are as many as 96 newcomers. We must do what our predecessors have left us. Our starting point is the legacy of the previous legislature. Johan Van Overtveldt, former finance minister, mentioned the Swedish heritage. Anyone who shares in an inheritance hopes to get good news. Anyone who shares in the Belgian legacy, the legacy of the Swedish coalition, mainly sees corpses falling out of the closet. After all, the gap in the budget left by the entire Michel administration is vengeful. The debt mountain left behind by the entire Michel government is scandalously high, despite two major windfalls, namely the falling interest charges and the favourable economic situation. Remember the pronunciation "Show me the money!" The Community had to be frozen, putting state finances in order was the commitment of the previous government. Today, it appears that just this clean-up is the weak point of the past administration period. The budget deficit reports follow one another: 7, 8, 10, now EUR 11 billion deficit. In every newspaper article that has appeared in the last few weeks, apparently a billion more were added. Eleven billion euros is a huge sum. But that 11 billion is actually just the beginning. The ageing population will shift a few gears in this legislative period, expenditure on pensions and health care will continue to increase and the pace of this increase will increase in the coming years. By the end of this legislature, another EUR 5 billion a year will be added. Public investment in this worn-out country has also been lagging behind the rest of Europe for years. If we want to achieve the European average in terms of public investment, we also need an additional EUR 4 billion per year. The EUR 11 billion is therefore only the beginning; many tens of billions of euros will be added in the coming years. Many observers are therefore irritated by the lightness with which those responsible in Parliament deal. Since 26 May, we have seen politicians traveling around, who are mainly engaged in political games, aiming at maximizing their own party political interests, or politicians who are primarily engaged in their own political career and how they can get to work in the European Union, the European casino, the big pack-de-poen show. Verhofstadt, Leterme and now Michel, they are all political leaders who, while failing to get the country's budget in order, seem not to have the slightest difficulty in doing so with their personal budget and financial planning. How should we, as newcomers to Parliament, ever take this institution seriously, when those who are here are primarily concerned with themselves and the way they can leave the sinking ship? The Verhofstadts, the Michels, the Peetersen have now applied for and received political asylum in Europe. After us deluge him , after us the flood. Without a new budget, the heart of a coalition agreement and the foundation of any policy, the rest of the government has nothing more to say to Parliament. Parliament, all of us, must play our full part. We have a professional responsibility to do our job. Last week, the rest of the government asked the Monitoring Committee to draw up a report on the budgetary situation. As soon as that report is available, at the end of July, the Flemish interest wants the Finance Committee to meet immediately to evaluate the dramatic state of the budget. Parliament must fully fulfil its legislative role in the coming weeks and months. The previous government has shamelessly forwarded the invoice to our children and grandchildren. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow that to happen again! I listened very carefully to Mr Leysen last week. As far as possible, we in this House must carry out reforms across party boundaries, examine pistes and draw up proposals. That is not only the right of the hemisphere; it is also our damn duty. I have already made a number of proposals in the Committee on Finance and the Budget. Firstly, where is the study commissioned by Van Overtveldt on the cost of migration? Several countries, including Norway, have had that significant cost for society calculated. The Dutch Planning Bureau also made the calculation. The conclusion was harsh but at the same time crystal clear, I quote: 'At all ages of entry immigrants appear to be a burden on public finances'. A recent report by the Norwegian government came to a similar conclusion. That is why the bill for the Flemish Interest was quickly made. We want our taxpayers' money no longer to be spent on asylum seekers, but on our own people, our own pensions, our own health care, our own workers and entrepreneurs, our own elderly people and our own security. A second proposal is the following. All political parties had programme points calculated by the Federal Planning Bureau before the elections. Well, my party had it calculated what a waiting period on social security and social assistance could mean for newcomers. According to the Planning Bureau, the measure will generate no less than EUR 1.5 billion per year in the budget. Even more, as the conditions are tightened, it can yield up to EUR 5 billion a year. We are already reaching out across party boundaries in order to work out this proposal in concrete terms. It is, moreover, a matter of government policy in Austria and Denmark. Thirdly, I, together with the Minister, note that the budget is further derailed by the ever-increasing contribution to the European Union. My party already counted it. No one pays more to the European Union than the Fleming. Flemings pay EUR 2.4 billion to Europe every year. That's almost 600 euros per working Fleming. Worse still, after the Brexit those amounts will only increase. A reduction of a few percentage points on the contribution to the European Union could soon save a few hundred million euros a year on our budget. Countries such as Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands have negotiated substantial discounts for their citizens, but this has not happened in our country. The Flemish parties have never agreed to any discount. We were and are still represented in Europe by bangs with Tuscan outhouses, who like to sponsor the pivotal European institutions at the expense of the Flemish taxpayers. Our Belgian politicians are always in the front row for European top nominations, but apparently in the last row to serve the interests of our citizens. So far, three very concrete proposals for our budget. I can be brief and clear about our amendments to the emergency budget. The citizens of this country have to pay more and more: the invoices, the energy bills, the excise duties, the retirement invoices, they all went up. While the hardworking citizen in this country has to pay more and more, the money continues to flow to the Royal House. Instead of constantly milking the taxpayer, we are asking Parliament to finally completely wipe out the flow of money to the Royal Palace. Ladies and gentlemen, a majority in Parliament wants to abolish the Senate. The Senate is an old talk barracks, which costs a lot of money, a relic from past centuries. Let's get this over with. Finally, allow me to touch on the many millions of euros flowing towards the reception of asylum seekers. I listened very carefully to Mr Lachaert in committee when he spoke last week about collective responsibility. It is indeed a collective responsibility of the then full-fledged Michel government. At the Council of Ministers of 28 September 2018, at the suggestion of Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Francken, no less than 2,224 places were opened, whereas places should have been closed. On 15 November 2018, the Francken cabinet announced that another 1,500 additional places were created. The asylum figures show that the Minister's name has changed in recent months, but that the policy has remained the same. This country was, is and remains a magnet for fortune seekers from all over the world. The political joust between Open Vld and the N-VA before and after the elections will never compensate for inaction for five years. The pot blames the kettle for looking black. Already in the second half of 2018, under Secretary of State Francken, the number of asylum applications in Europe fell, but the number of applications in Belgium increased. That is not surprising, since the necessary tightening of Belgian asylum and migration policies, unlike several other European countries, has always remained dead letter. No tough tweets, no social media campaigns or expensive advertising agencies can hide that. Measures that could have an impact, such as a firm expulsion policy, a tightening of family reunification and a stepping up of access to social security, remain out to date. Mr President, I hope that we can have a debate on this in Parliament. You will understand that my group will vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u9	It was also his maiden speech for Mr Vermeersch, for which I congratulate him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u10	Mr President, when you were appointed President of the Chamber, you said that you would be the chairman of all Members of Parliament and not just of those with whom you lobbied for that Presidency, including those whose ideology you do not share. I found it very disturbing that colleagues were not listened to. Here was more noise and less discipline than in my little girls' classes. I would ask you, as chairman, to urge colleagues to be elementary polite so that they can listen to their colleagues. Anyone who wants to have a coffee chat can do so in the places that are intended for that purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u11	Colleague Pas, I also found it a little disturbing. I've been through worse, but that's not an apology. In fact, I would like to ask that we show respect for each other in this sitting and in the next part-session and that those who are present follow the debate. There are other possibilities for those who do not want to follow the debate outside our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for lengthy speeches on this technical exercise, namely the adoption of provisional twelfths. Pending clarification of the political situation, this operation is necessary to ensure the continuity of the functioning of the federal state, to pay the creditors of the federal state and the salaries of the agents of the state. The MR-N-VA government was unable to complete its adventure and pass a 2019 budget. We can just note some adjustments, some exceptions to the principle of provisional twelfths in this text. Some are positive, such as the funds needed for intervention for the victims of the Softenon. Other adjustments raise questions, particularly in relation to the MYRRHA project, which we criticise and question very regularly, as you know. Overall, however, the technical basis for these provisional twelfths has been validated by the Court of Auditors. In view of the political circumstances, because we are not one of those parties whose vocation is to sow zizania, to add chaos to chaos, to create problems and to maintain them, because we, as environmentalists, will always be on the side of finding solutions rather than creating problems, because our country needs reasonable and positive parties, we will now vote on these provisional twelfths, as we did in committee. We also voted on the previous provisional twelfths, which in particular, and in a positive way, allowed the implementation of the interprofessional agreement and the raising of social benefits in the context of the allocation of the welfare envelope. However, I want to clarify something on behalf of our group, Madam Minister. We do so while still challenging the budgetary basis of these provisional twelfths, the initial 2018 budget. Before it, the same logic had been applied for budgets 2015, 2016 and 2017. This base is duplicated in the context of the provisional twelfths. I would like to recall the three fundamental criticisms that we have made and that it is important to reiterate with regard to these financial years. The first of our criticisms concerns the budget and fiscal policy of the MR-N-VA government. We note the same lack of seriousness and strength as in the various budget years. The Court of Auditors and other national or international bodies have regularly noted the random nature of the new revenue and savings announced in the budget. Today, the Federal Bureau of the Plan announces, with unchanged policy, a budget deficit extending beyond EUR 10 billion. You have repeated in committee, as is of course your right, statements of a logic of budgetary fascidism, masking deficits that will weigh heavily on future generations, and anticipating revenue, in particular corporate tax, through the operation of increasing penalties to companies that would pay late. But it's typically an operation one shot. Expenditures are underestimated, including tax shift, and revenues are overestimated, those related to the fight against tax fraud that was never seriously carried out during the legislature. This leads us today to a difficult, unstable budgetary situation which will require, on the part of the future majority, an absolutely rigorous follow-up. The second fundamental criticism that we pointed out – Mr Jambon, listen carefully because it is important! – it is the socially unfair nature of the various fiscal years that have been conducted by the MR/N-VA government: linear savings in social security, pension reform carried out at the expense of the most vulnerable workers, ever less accessible health care which result in widening inequalities, an increase in social emergency situations. My colleague, Evita Willaert, and I have regularly pointed to the increase in poverty, especially child poverty, in our country. There are also phenomena of transfer from the pension scheme to the sickness-disability scheme, from unemployment to the CPAS. These are operations which do not solve the problems that arise today and which do not contribute in any way to social justice and equality among all our citizens. I come to our third fundamental criticism of your fiscal years. It concerns the lack of vision and commitment for the future, particularly in terms of climate and environmental objectives – for example, in terms of protecting biodiversity – all of which are dear to us. I am thinking of the financing of SNCB, the development of real alternatives to the use of the car – for example, that of the company car –, a clear and ambitious energy policy aimed at reducing carbon emissions, as well as facilitating energy savings in public and private buildings, developing renewable energy, exiting nuclear power and meeting the commitments made by our country in Paris under COP21 to meet these challenges. However, we find no trace of this in the 2018 budget, nor in the previous ones. Our hope and wish, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the very short term – during the fiscal year to be carried out in the autumn, in dialogue with the European bodies – and in the medium term – that is, during the Parliament that has just opened – these re-defining budgetary shortcomings can be corrected and that we adopt stronger, fairer and more voluntarily future-oriented budgets. In conclusion, I recall the commitment that environmentalists have made to contribute to it through concrete, solid, fair and resolutely forward-looking proposals and future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now considering the draft law on provisional twelfths. This should be a small technical discussion. But you are aware that, in a Belgium that is looking for a government, a provisional twelfth can become very long-term. It therefore seems to me important to give, today, a few marks to these provisional twelfths, which will follow in the coming weeks and months. In substance, as you know, Madam Minister, we were not in favour of the 2018 budget, which is an austerity budget. We had already informed you, at the time, that one of the major problems of liberal thought is to believe that by cutting public spending, you will solve our state's budgetary problems. Minister, Charles Michel will not answer you! I'm telling you your theory was wrong. I've heard that a lot. It is the liberal story that you have been telling for 25 years: one cuts social spending and that will have a positive impact on the budget. But what is it, Madam Secretary? What you are saying is completely wrong, because the Federal Planning Office is clearly a deficit of EUR 10 billion by 2020. And 14.5 billion in 2024. Your liberal theory of cutting in spending is totally wrong. In this way, you stifle the economy, you do not allow people to blow, live, consume, work. What a mistake! Mr President, we will be here every month to see that finances are deteriorating more and more. Madam Minister, that is why, in the context of "the eternally provisional", we can take action immediately. Because there is a social emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, we can make an exception to the provisional twelfths when there is a real urgency. For example, we are proposing an amendment on the situation in hospitals. It can't go on like this... Dear right-wing parties, have you gone to see what it means to work in a hospital today? You guys know that at the N-VA? I am not even asking that question to Flemish Interest. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u14	The design of long-term sick people has supported the Flemish interest, just to push people to the ground. That's what you're for, as an opposition party, but we, a left-wing warm party, say no. We do not participate in this with Flemish Interest. For those who have approved the budgets in the field of hospitals, la situation est intenable. It can't go on like this anymore. Nurses have to work up to 70 hours a week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u15	Mr Creyelman has asked for the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u16	Mr Hedebouw, with all due respect, but my father died of Parkinson's disease, so it's personalizing for a moment that I don't know what it means to deal with long-term sick people and that I don't know what a hospital bill means, that's on you, but not on mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u17	Do you think it is normal, my dear colleague, that your party voted in favour of increasing the control of long-term sick people? Do you think that's normal? That's the question I'm asking!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u18	It is not a question of specific cases. That pseudo-opposition... I was just talking about the budgets, which make the nursing staff work harder and harder today. On average in Europe, one nurse has eight patients in her care, in Belgium, one of the richest countries in Europe, that is eleven patients. Ladies and gentlemen, for us on the left, it is unacceptable that people in hospitals should work so hard, with so much flexibility, and above all that they no longer have time to give people proper care. That is what we are saying, ladies and gentlemen, and so we are tabling an amendment. The amendment is very clear. The battle of white blouses is taking place today in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia. We therefore propose an additional budget of EUR 100 million, which can respond to the urgency in hospital settings. This is not yet the debate that we will have about the general and necessary refinancing of our social security, but it is an emergency measure that aims to respond to this just fight, that the hospital staff – which wants to give the best of itself to treat people properly. Ladies and gentlemen, you have received this amendment today, which will be put to the vote. Since Parliament is king, when we do not yet have a full-fledged government, this is the time or never to vote in favour of this concrete amendment to respond to this social emergency. I hope we can approve it in an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u19	Thank you, Mr Hedebouw. At the same time, I consider your statement to be the defence of your amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked the presence of the Minister of Finance, something I had already asked for in our work in the Finance Committee. I realize he's not here. That's a shame, because I had things to say to him. Madam Minister, day-to-day business should not be turned into a sluggish business. It must be admitted, however, that our country's budgetary and financial situation is not advantageous. If it is not advantageous, it is mainly because it is the result of a policy that has been pursued for several years now. It is a policy of austerity, it has been said, but it is also an expensive policy, with reductions in unfunded social contributions. This has put pressure on social security and also on other budget items, in particular public services. In short, in recent years, you have made social security and public services your cash drawer, to try worth filling the holes you had dug yourself. What are we talking about? From EUR 14 billion by 2024. You told us that in 2018, you would achieve balance, because of a policy that was intended to be magical. You said that by helping companies, by reducing their social contributions, by also sabbing – you must say so – in a whole series of public expenditure, which is fundamental, you were going to revive the economy. It was obviously made up of tax gifts for some, tax cuts for others, and in particular low and middle income. All this, you said, was going to reoxygenize the economy and bring back naturally, mechanically, tax revenues. The result is this: the positive effects are not back, but on the contrary! We have seen a worsening of the deficit; I repeat, a slate of EUR 14 billion. The question is how you're going to take advantage of the time you have left to try to bring back better management in our public finances. Why do I mention the Minister of Finance? Because I had to ask him if he would be able to compensate for the inertia of his predecessor in the fight against tax fraud. If there is now a finding of failure to establish, it is a finding of slowness in the efficiency of recovery, particularly with regard to tax evasion. We would like to hear from the Minister of Finance, I would also like to address our colleague Mrs Jadin, who is chairman of the Finance Committee, to ask him to hold a genuine debate on the country's financial situation, and in particular on the intentions of the Minister of Finance, so that everyone in our country can pay his taxes, and in particular those who think they are allowed to fraud. Madam Minister, of course we will vote on your provisional twelfths. The state has to work. We must pay for our officials and ensure that justice, the interior, the police can provide the services we expect. At the same time, you will understand, Madam Minister, that we cannot, in one way or another, endorse what has been your failure. I repeat this in this rostrum. However, I have a specific question for you. The Federal Police are expressing their concerns. We are told that some 2018 invoices may remain unpaid. Do you have any means in these provisional twelfths to honour the invoices submitted by the Federal Police? More precisely, what budgetary arrangements have you put in place to address this concern?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already received the third instalment of provisional appropriations. Let it be very clear: for the sp.a Group, this term speaks for itself.it is a temporary technical measure. It's temporary and technical, but it's necessary. The measure is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of public services, the proper functioning of public authorities and the provision of public services to its citizens. And that is why there is no misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen, the only reason why the provisional appropriations will be approved. We do not want to block the functioning of the institutions. We want our citizens to be able to count on public services. That is what our citizens are asking for. They do not ask for a blockade of the country. Our citizens are asking that those who vote against do well to bear that in mind. Our citizens are asking that pensions can be paid. They ask that persons with disabilities, who are entitled to a benefit, continue to receive that allowance in August, September and October. For all these reasons, we need the provisional appropriations. Parliament must also remain consistent with itself. Softenon's victims, for example, must be able to receive their compensation. This technical measure is also included. We therefore need the provisional appropriations to ensure the provision of services. Madam Minister, I am not concealing that, as I said in the Finance Committee when discussing this draft and formally repeated it to the chairman of the committee, I am very concerned about the 2019 budget. By the way, I would like to say to Mr Leysen that he stopped with the 2018 budget, that this is not a bogus debate or a post-electoral debate. It is a debate on hard, real figures that we must be able to conduct serenely, without slogans. Colleagues, the 2019 budget must be of concern to all of us. We are now almost two months after the 26 May elections and every figure that is currently being launched on finance by, among other things, the Federal Planning Office indicates that the budgetary situation is much worse than what the current and former government parties have been trying to say. The budgetary situation is getting worse every day, as it were. The deficit on the balance of claims is increasing to more than EUR 10 billion today and will be even higher tomorrow. A deficit of EUR 14 billion is mentioned! You have all been able to take note of the shortage of social security. That deficit is due to non-existent but registered income in that social security. In other words, accounting revenue is recorded but not realised. In this way, a deficit is created in every household and thus in social security. Then there is the unclear effect of the favor measures on the advance payment of corporate taxes. Everyone knows, however, that it is a negative effect; that is certain. Madam Minister, I really do not understand that the government has still not received a report from the Monitoring Committee in current cases, and so have we. According to a tradition of many years, the administrations collect figures on the state of the budget at the beginning of July. It is only a question of collecting figures, so there is no assessment of value. Well, that report is still not there or it shouldn't be there. What do you have to hide in the matter? Why isn't the report here yet? Why can't the administrations do their normal work? They can collect the necessary data using their own methodology. Mr President, I am also looking at you. Parliament, therefore, has the right to know the state of the budget, both in terms of expenditure and in terms of revenue. We now have a split view of the situation, because on the expenditure side there is the system of provisional twelfths, while on the revenue side it remains a mystery. Why can't we get a complete picture of the situation? The FPS Finance can easily provide this data on the basis of the monthly statistics kept for that purpose, but we cannot or should not receive that information. Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, as I did in the Finance Committee ten days ago and last week through a formal oral question, I once again call for the report of the Monitoring Committee to be made available so that we can at least discuss it. The current resigning government and the former majority parties may then judge it. Please let us talk about it. The resigning government and majority parties must not bury their heads in the sand. Make the information requested public and ensure that we can have a serene debate on the budgetary exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u22	I congratulate Mr Bertels on his maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u23	Mr President, we were aware of this in fact. However, it seems that many colleagues here still do not see that. The government fell in December. What didn't we get? Early election. What did we get? A government in current affairs that has simply continued to govern, which has continued to pursue policies, often even without support in this Parliament. That is the reality, Mr Leysen and Mr Vermeersch. Mr Leysen, you quite easily forget that the previous government had made a number of agreements. Now, with the support of Open Vld, these agreements, such as the zommderdeal, the increased degressivity, the job deal, all ended up in the garbage can. Mr Vermeersch, if possible, your speech was even more striking. Not only do you forget the arrangements made, but you also forget your own party program. Socio-economic links: recipe for additional debts, debts, debts. A little more sobriety would please you. More importantly, in the meantime, we see a government in current affairs that is simply continuing to govern, as if nothing has changed and as if there have been no elections, as if the electorate had not given some very clear messages. Firstly, ensure a tighter migration policy. Secondly, show a little more austerity as politicians. Thirdly, respect Flemish democracy. Fourthly, increase safety, security and security. First of all, migration. We have seen the interviews of our Minister of the Interior, Mr De Crem. In short, his appeal is that we should return to Mr Francken's policy. I thought that was a good call. On the other hand, we find, unfortunately, that Mrs De Block believes that she has the right, as minister in current affairs, to change everything and just to conduct policies. It believes that it has the right to completely overturn the policy of the previous government. As a result, the asylum bill is rising. In February, Mrs De Block already asked for 62 million euros. A few months later, we gave her another EUR 32 million and now another EUR 40 million. That is an additional invoice of EUR 132 million for a government in current affairs to implement a new policy. By definition, that shouldn't be allowed. These funds will be added to the EUR 260 million that Fedasil is already receiving. Fifty percent added, that's the bill of a new policy. Not from a policy in current affairs, but from a new policy pursued by Mrs De Block. That's just not right. I am in favour of what Mr Lachaert announced in the television studios: if we want to avoid a shutdown, we must ask our ministers to show restraint. However, it is a pity that it is like Open Vld Minister Maggie De Block who derails the budget. Then give me Pieter De Crem, then give me our amendments. Then we go back to Theo Francken's policy, tighter on migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u24	Mr President, I am not going to repeat what I have already said in committee. Mr Loones, we are not making an abstraction of the election results, you are doing so. Together with the Parti Socialiste, you have been given a mandate by the electorate. You may have lost the elections, quite heavy indeed, but you are the largest party in the Dutch language group. The Parti Socialiste is the largest party in the French language group. It's up to you to make policy after that election. You are actually taking on the role of opposition party here. I hear that from a lot of parties here today. We are going to approve provisional twelfths today, and we hear all kinds of groups here telling us how not to do so. However, we hear very few parties here who want to take up their responsibilities. You have responsibility and the PS also bears responsibility. You need to talk to each other and find solutions for this country. I would like to make two more points. There is criticism here of these provisional appropriations if the new policy is concerned. However, that is not a new policy, and you know it very well. When it comes to asylum and migration, it is about collective decisions taken in the government and in the nuclear cabinet, where Theo Francken and Jan Jambon were present in 2018. Sixty percent of the expenditure requested here concerns collective decisions taken with the N-VA. What Maggie De Block had to do afterwards was open the places that were needed. If one first artificially reduces the number of places, then one can only increase the number of places again. Mr Francken had to do that and he should have done the same thing if you had stayed in the government in December. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by talking about sobriety. I really need you to tell me that you can't keep telling me this. You advocate austerity in the budget for politics. What was the increase in the first and second quarters of provisional appropriations? There was the exit from the government of the N-VA which forced all those cabinet employees to receive redundancy payments. We're gonna pay those people, aren't we? We're not gonna suspend that payment, are we? Mr. Loones, you are ex-Minister yourself. Several members of your group and even a member of the European Parliament of the N-VA are calling for their ex-minister to be given staff at the expense of the Chamber. They ask that, even though they have only been in office for a very short time. Then you dare to plead for austerity here, while Johan Van Overtveldt, for example, has an employee at the expense of the Chamber. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u25	Mr Loones, with your agreement, I shall first give the floor to Mr De Vriendt, so that you can replicate globally and conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u26	Mr Loones, I was expecting that criticism of the expenditure on asylum shelters included in this bill, but I think they are cheap. I'm just that N-VA keeps trying to score populist by trying to talk people to their mouths and scare them when it comes to migration, but the facts are worth mentioning. It is perfectly logical that a budget should be requested here for reception places and asylum, because the increase in the number of applications and the delay in dealing with the dossiers have been there since July last year. Then the graph, which I have here, showed a marked increase. Do you know who was responsible for asylum and migration in July 2018? That was not Mrs Maggie De Block, but Mr Theo Francken. He had to cover the costs associated with an increased inflow. That makes perfect sense. Then there is my second point. What exactly do you want? If you say that spending on asylum is increasing because there are more asylum seekers, you say that we should not accept them. We will therefore allow these people to wander around the Maximilian Park and Brussels-North during their asylum procedure without proper reception. That is what you are saying, and that is consistent. This follows on from the policy of your former Secretary of State, Francken, who set quotas in the asylum procedure, which prevented war refugees, people who are entitled to protection because they are fleeing war and violence, from applying for asylum from us. You seem to think that they should all stay in Libya and in the overcrowded camps in Greece, and you think that Belgium should no longer show any solidarity for people fleeing war and violence. If you say that we will not pay for this asylum, you say that we will let those people wander around Brussels. That's not our choice. We want to show solidarity with our group. We say that these people deserve a fair, fair and correct asylum procedure. That's the difference between our party and yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u27	I did not want to comment on it now, but interruptions should normally be a little shorter and more relevant. Mr Loones, you can replicate and continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u28	I come from the European Parliament and this is also my maiden speech as a Member of Parliament. I am going uphill: from Europe to the national Parliament and then the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u29	I don't mean to be annoying, but not so long ago, you were Secretary of State here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u30	That's when I never stood here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u31	No, you stayed on your couch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u32	I was a Member of the European Parliament. When I look at European politics, I do not see any asylum crisis in Europe at the moment. Nowhere, except here with us, here the numbers are rising. I wonder why. You are right, Mr De Vriendt, last summer the statistics went up. That is also why Theo Francken then, as the competent minister, started to pursue a tighter policy, started to take tighter measures, started to introduce quotas, turned the fives on. This is just to prevent us from getting into trouble, just to avoid that there would not be enough shelters. What did we see in the fall of the government? Mrs De Block, Minister in current affairs, has immediately begun to pursue policies. She has reversed Theo Francken's policy, she has abandoned it. The first thing she did was remove the quotas for vulnerable refugees. She has stopped the distress campaigns via Facebook from the first day. It has pursued policies and policies today, and that is at the heart of our criticism, because a government in current affairs should not do so. What Mrs De Block should do is continue Theo Francken's policy. Our amendment makes this possible again. My second point concerns austerity. Mr Lachaert has already mentioned this. The government fell in December. The first fact at that time is that all Secretary of State have been upgraded. They have all become ministers with a higher wage, a larger cabinet and more prestige. That was necessary at the time because of the linguistic parity. Recently we have seen the same argument when Mr Peeters was replaced by Mr Wouter Beke. Congratulations on your ministry, by the way. That argument was also used at that time. However, the mini-government could have done something else. For example, a French-speaking minister could have stood up and said that he didn't mind becoming Secretary of State. We would have seen a government that respected parity, but then we would have seen more austerity. Precisely this austerity, that example of politics, was one of the questions, demands or messages we received on 26 May. Indeed, Mr Lachaert, I find it remarkable today to note that such investment is being made in the Cabinets. You are right that the fall of the government entails a number of costs. From my cabinet, an N-VA cabinet, people had to be fired, where retirement allowances had to be paid. There will be additional costs and they will have to be paid correctly, that is correct. You are also right when you say that even a government in current affairs must have sufficient experts to be able to evaluate policy. Alexander De Croo, Minister of Development Cooperation, also became Minister of Finance. I do not expect the experts in development cooperation to be experts in Belgian taxation immediately. It is therefore logical that extra investment should be made there, but it is the amounts that are disturbing. You propose cutting 4 million because of the disappearance of N-VA cabinettes. But you're gonna pump $3 million back in immediately. That amount is just too high. Why? Because it makes it seem like you're not just trying to look after the store, you're trying to conduct policy. That's why you want more investment in additional cabinet employees doing extra cabinet work. You want to pursue extra policies, and that's not your job. You're a government in ongoing business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u33	Mr President, what Mr Loones is saying is wrong. The Finance Office was a cost of 717.000 euros. Alexander De Croo's cabinet is now taking over finance for 300,000 euros. That is therefore a considerable saving. If we look at this in a year's time, excluding redundancy payments, we find that the cost of the Cabinets has fallen by EUR 5 million. That is the reality. Mr Loones, I have a question for you: do you think it is appropriate that former Minister Van Overtveld, who now has a budget of EUR 300 000 available to staff in the European Parliament, should take on an employee of EUR 54 000 at the cost of these provisional appropriations? Do you think that's justified?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u34	Firstly, you take the example of finance. But I'm looking at the global numbers. $4 million is being dropped and $3 million is being pumped back in. So no one has to tell me it's a huge saving. There is extra investment in the Cabinets because there is a message behind it. You want to work with these cabinets, you want to do politics, you want to conduct policy. And that's not the job of a government in current affairs. Secondly, if there is a proposal to abolish the extra parliamentary staff for ex-Ministers, we will be the first to support it. By the way, we have had this debate in the past in the Flemish Parliament. Thirdly, the message of the elections was Flemish-national. On 26 May there was also a vote for more respect for Flemish democracy and for respect for the Flemings in Brussels. We are suddenly seeing a special dossier in these provisional appropriations, a symbolic dossier on language premia. For many years we have dealt with this dossier in a fully-fledged government. Then our Minister, Jan Jambon, always drew a very clear line. Can civil servants in Brussels receive a bilingual bonus? Yes, provided they are bilingual and have obtained the language attestation. Exactly that could not be demonstrated. That is why Minister Jambon has always said that no premiums would be paid to people who cannot prove that they have obtained that certificate. Today we see that suddenly EUR 32 million appear in the provisional twelfths, precisely to pay out these language premiums. Our group is asking for proof. We want proof that contributions will only be paid to officials who can prove that they are bilingual and that they have obtained that certificate. We also call on the Court of Auditors to monitor this. I come to my fourth and final point: safety. In this respect, we have tabled a new amendment. If there is anything we should agree on, it is that we need to invest even more in our security and our police. It's possible. We can do that without any further objections to the budget. How? By giving more flexibility to the Federal Police. Today they have a budget of 85 percent personnel costs, 13 percent operation and 2 percent investment. The police are asking for a little more flexibility. It wants to be able to invest extra this year without increasing its overall envelope. The police do not receive any more money, but do want to be able to spend it in a different way, so that, for example, equipment can be bought. Those investments will be profitable for our safety. I have heard that even Mr Laaouej referred to that need for the Federal Police. We know that other parties are not against this proposal either. We have an amendment ready, it will be put to the vote shortly. This will not burden the budget, but we will give extra opportunities to the police to ensure that it can invest. So we are creating a stronger police force, even more security and more investment by trusting our police extra. I decide. Seven months, this government has been in business for so long: five months because we were not allowed to have elections and two months now because the largest party in Wallonia refuses to talk to the largest party in Flanders. In the meantime, we have a government that behaves as if it were a full government. That's not normal, that's not right. Current cases do not give the current government the right to conduct policies. Current matters do not give her the right to provoke an asylum crisis, not the right to present French-language gifts in Brussels, not the right to announce all kinds of things at European level, without having them discussed first here in Parliament and not the right to place and distribute European posts... in order not to talk about the European Commissioner. On the contrary, on the contrary, current matters give her a responsibility, which is to continue the policy, the whole policy, of the previous government correctly. That is the responsibility of the government. Perhaps even more important is something I have missed in the debate up to the moment. It gives Parliament the responsibility to take the lead role and propose savings and reform. I heard Mr Laaouej speak earlier. He constantly addresses the Minister as if she were a minister in a fully-fledged government that could pursue that policy. That's not right. Let us assume our own responsibilities in the period of current affairs. Let us do our own job and come up with proposals. That is exactly what we are doing today with our amendments. We are going back to that responsibility, nothing more but nothing less, so that Parliament takes up its leading role and the government behaves as it should. The current government is not a full government. This is not a government [[.]] She's a government in ongoing business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u35	Mr Loones, congratulations on your maiden speech. You have never spoken in your capacity as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me. Like my colleague Sophie and many other colleagues, I am a little new. However, I am surprised by the content of the discussions. Indeed, everything I've heard since the beginning of the afternoon is very much like an election campaign. However, perhaps I misread the e-mail agenda, it seemed to me that the question was not who was the smartest or who was the right one in his political positions, but whether or not the federal state should continue to function! It seems to us that yes; it seems to us that this is the only responsible position. This does not mean that this budget is perfect, but it means that by supporting this draft provisional twelfths, we are not in a perfect situation but at least in the nails. Through you, Madam Minister, I would also like to highlight the quality work done by the administration. The only question that matters is whether the exemptions requested are consistent and justifiable. For us, they are. I would like to come back for a moment to one of them that has already been mentioned, the famous 40 million euros requested to receive asylum seekers. Welcoming asylum seekers with dignity is not a new policy. It's back to politics as it should have always been! It is to ensure that Belgium continues and returns to its international commitments. That's the minimum! I am not saying that the government in day-to-day affairs is perfect, but at least it has stopped setting quotas for asylum seekers and it knows how to mobilize means to receive them with dignity. For us, this is an important feather in his hat. Given the energy circulating here because of everyone's overwhelming ideas, if we put a quarter of the energy we heard here, that a number of responsible parties would make sure that they no longer had provisional twelfths but a real budget with a real government, that might be the best solution. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote on these provisional twelfths, simply because this is the only responsible thing to do today!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u37	There are many new colleagues, so many maiden speeches. Congratulations, colleague De Smet. Félicitations! I now give the floor to Mr Verherstraeten for his'maiden speech'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for the honour you have given me. It may not be my maiden speech, but when I hear some of my colleagues, I had the impression that it was more of a maiden debate on budget than of provisional twelfths. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about provisional twelfths. In some speeches, I almost understood that it was a budget or a mini-budget. As far as provisional twelfths are concerned, I repeat what I said in committee: provisional twelfths are necessary, but also, of course, insufficient. They are necessary because we do not want shutdown. We want officials who give the best of themselves from morning to evening to be paid. We want social benefits to be paid to people who absolutely need it, and that is why resources are allocated from the budget to social security through the dotation of balances. We want entrepreneurs entering into contracts with the government to be paid for the orders we have placed. That is why it is necessary. It's not enough either. We are not proud, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here today for the third time in this Chamber this year, without therefore having a budget. Mr Leysen, I must contradict you when you say that if we do not have a budget and work purely with provisional twelfths, then it will be totally out of control. That's not true. That doesn't bother people at all. I agree with you that we should have had a budget, but there is budgetary caution, which clearly limits the cut on the stock exchange and expenditure by this government without full authority. We're not pretending that either. Ladies and gentlemen, after 26 May I have heard the interpretations of the electoral results by several colleagues. Everyone has their truth and their interpretation, but they're pretty far apart. The only thing we agree on is, I think, that there is a great deal of social unrest in our society that deserves an answer. We cannot give that answer with provisional twelfths. Certainly not in the light of the risks we face, such as the Brexit, a trade war and international tensions. There are also the pessimistic reports to which Mr Bertels referred. There is the ageing committee, the 17 billion by 2040, the job growth that slows down, the economic growth that slows down, while we also want to help more people, everyone, get to work. We need a government with full powers that can make a full budget. It's gonna take some talking. It's gonna take negotiation. The largest political formations in both regions have also lost, but they remain the largest. That gives them rights, we will respect that, but that also gives them duties. That also gives them responsibility. That gives them the duty and responsibility to sit around the table. I would like to draw attention to what Jean-Luc Dehaene once said: a majority does not have the right to impose its opinion on a minority and a minority does not have the right to refuse to sit at the table. That requires a willingness to compromise. This also means that people do not say in advance: we talk about this and we do not talk about it, because then there will never be a conversation. The reality shows that we may also have to sit around the table a fourth time in order to talk about another provisional twelfths. We can see that coming. We may regret that, but that is the political reality at the moment. That is why I repeat my plea. A fourth provisional twelfth is not our A-piste, I understand, I would prefer to have a full budget, but as a B-piste I propose to upgrade the provisional twelfths to a small mini-budget, to a form of budgetary control or call it provisional twelfths plus, taking additional measures than just the provisional twelfths, so that we can still find resources. The savings we are making this year should not be sought next year. Colleagues, the elections are over. The campaign should be, too. This is indeed not my maiden speech, Mr President. Maybe that's why I belong to an old school. I have always learned that after the elections there will be a quieter period where, like here, we do not put oral questions to a government in current cases, a fortiori, not to a government in current cases that represents 38 out of 150 seats and does not put that away either, Mr Loones. That quieter period serves to negotiate. That is why I do not understand some of the explanations here today and I do not understand some of the amendments in this respect. Yes, we want to debate reinforced borders in Europe and more efficient procedures to prevent procedural abuses of asylum. Yes, we want procedures to help people who have been given asylum to get in and get a job faster, which is their duty. Yes, we want to effectively show those who do not receive asylum, with respect for human rights. We want to achieve higher figures than the figures we have achieved in recent years. We want figures comparable to our neighbouring countries. However, this is not done by tabling amendments which, to a large extent, implement decisions which have been taken into account. This is achieved by sitting at the negotiating table and discussing it. As far as language premiums are concerned, the question of having the Court of Auditors carry out an investigation is a legitimate question. I support it and will, as promised, send a letter to you in that sense, Mr President. For the rest, I would like to thank those groups which are not members of the majority, but which take their political responsibility to prevent a shutdown and to support the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a first step, I did not intend to intervene in today's debate on provisional appropriations. They do not, of course, allow us to do the most important thing, that is to say, to fill the abyss of the budget which has been constantly postponed to future generations. However, we will of course vote for these provisional appropriations, since in practice it is a matter of guaranteeing first and foremost the survival of the various departments concerned, but also of guaranteeing to the citizens the maintenance and continuation of a whole series of competences. You will allow me to address three specific points. To do this, I turn to you, minister, and to the members of the government. These three points were discussed in this afternoon's debates as well as in committee. In terms of health, I would like to stress positively the establishment of the Softenon Victims Fund. It's a fight I've fought very personally with the ASBL and the patient associations that suffer from the consequences of taking Softenon. It's about time. It's been a long time for patients to wait for him. Still in the area of health, I hear that some people take up the arguments that I have been developing for years with regard to nursing staff (infirmians and others). These caregivers are under pressure. We have often repeated this in recent years. On the ground, the situation is extremely complicated. This means, of course, that patients are also affected. I could therefore only support any initiative in favour of nurses, provided that it is well-written and justified. But of course you won't do anything about it. However, I would like to tell you that this dossier must be put back on the table. The second point I would like to raise concerns the police. Some have decided to table amendments in order, in the end, to support additional investments, in particular in terms of equipment to the detriment of police personnel. Yes, there are significant deficiencies in equipment and various types of equipment. But there are even more shortcomings at the staff level. We will therefore not be able to follow those who want to "pick" potential commitments made in terms of police personnel to compensate for deficiencies in equipment. It is quite crazy that the party that had the responsibility of the Department of the Interior and Security is waking up today by wanting to allocate additional amounts of equipment – you could have done so, already a long time ago – and dared to "pick" or try to "push" budgetary sums normally spent on the hiring of additional police officers so that it can justify its attitude. This is an extremely challenging way of doing things. You definitely have short memory! I come to the third point that I would like to address, which relates to the appropriations for the staff of the firms. I have heard the explanations given by each other. Minister, obviously we are not in a position to go to see and do fine tuning in all internal movements of government and individual ministers to know exactly what the notice is or is not to be given and what the notice periods for staff are. Of course, we are not in a position to verify whether or not what you are saying, namely that it is a breakdown between the different firms in order to assume these notices, is correct. This will not prevent us from voting on these provisional appropriations, provided, of course, that you commit yourself by saying that these are not supplementary budgets allocated to ministerial offices and that at the next stage – and I hope that this will not be done in the form of provisional appropriations – we will be able to see, in September or October, that these budgets have actually been reduced. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a small political conclusion. Since the elections, we have had confirmation, in the media expressions, in this chamber, on Twitter and I pass, of the rapprochement between the N-VA and the Vlaams Belang. We can still hear it here, through the debates, the expressions and the votes on these provisional appropriations. It is understood in your expressions on Belgium, on the reception of refugees and on the undermining of the minimum of human dignity. You said earlier "this is not a country" but, not to the nationalists and extremists who fantasize and work to destroy Belgium, I say to you: "this is still our country!"
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u40	I give the floor to the Minister of Budget for the government's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u41	Mr President, this should normally be a rather technical exercise which the State must allow to function. There are two exceptions that we have discussed in committee. These were specifically two detention homes and the victims of thalidomide. During the committee meeting there was an opportunity to make comments and ask questions. We then tried to answer the questions. A number of questions came up again and I will answer them again. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the administration for the work done. It should be noted that the provisional twelfths are not such a simple exercise. The starting point is the 2018 budget, which has already been voted on. As you noted, the administration has delivered an important document, with several budget exemptions. As with the introduction of initial budgets or budgetary controls, I would like to thank her once again for her work. The provisional twelfths do not form a budget. Last year, we had not only tabled the 2019 budget, but also debated it in committee for quite a long time. Why am I telling you about it? As the budget path was discussed, I would like to invite those who were present at the time and those who were not there to look for this document in the House's archives. This text has been tabled, but has not been voted on. I would remind you that at that time it was indicated that the fiscal trajectory would deteriorate if the policy was unchanged. This means that if you do not take new measurements, the trajectory will deteriorate. It's an absolute fact. Of course, no new measures are proposed. Not only has the budget not been voted on, but also, as a result, we were unable to carry out budgetary control in March. Therefore, we were unable to seize the opportunity to straighten the bar. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of the significant deterioration in macroeconomic factors. The budget announced a growth of 1.6% for 2019-2020. We are now at 1.3 per cent. Uncertainties are hovering and will permanently affect this trajectory. My Sp.a. colleague asked me about the monitoring committee. We have nothing to hide; of course not. I mean, sir! In fact, my administration has been working on these provisional twelfths – and it takes a lot of time. If you read the press, you will have noticed that we had asked the administration to meet as a monitoring committee to give us a report – which will be delivered next week – on the state of public finances. I will answer some questions more specifically. The question of additional amounts allegedly requested by the police had indeed not been addressed in committee at all. It is relayed here by certain political parties. This request is not new. She was the subject of a question to Mr. From Crem to commission. We will meet again this week with Mr. From Crem, the Budget firm, the related administrations and the Finance Inspectorate, to see what these requests really correspond to. I can say a priori that they are divided into four types. First, these are requests for new equipment. These are requests for additional commitments, with liquidations to be carried out in 2020. Today, these are just commitments, but the trajectory towards 2020 will be impacted. Secondly, there are requests for commitments and liquidations relating only to 2019. Third, there are invoices, debts relating to 2018 invoices that must be paid. Fourthly, a particular request relates to the police school. My opinion is as follows. When we address this issue, a fundamental point must become our guideline. When amounts relating to invoices have to be paid, whether by the Federal Police or by any other administration, it is necessary to ensure that they are paid. This will have to lead the discussion. We will also have special attention to the police school. As Mrs Fonck said, there have been many discussions in this Parliament on police personnel. Acts must follow, since this was an imperative shared by many people. The idea is to work on the police school and on the invoices, trying not to have an impact on the future budget trajectory, with re-allocations 2019. They can be done in two ways, either through the provision or through the fourth quarter. We will go back to Parliament about the fourth quarter, but we will have to wait longer. In any event, this will take place in the greatest transparency vis-à-vis Parliament. I have no doubt that you will have further questions on this. As far as the expenditure of the cabinets is concerned, a question already raised in committee and again raised here, when one party resigns, the powers must be taken over by the other cabinets. Be reassured, the skills have been taken over by other colleges with much less plethoratic cabinets than before. This will ultimately create savings. Why can't we see these savings right away when we look at the budget? I would like to point out here that a budget is a maximum of spending authority. We're not in the accounts yet. Why haven't you been able to see them in the provisional appropriations yet? Simply because, as a result of departures, a series of charges must always be paid, such as notices, discharges of charges, famous invoices – this does not happen only to the police – that arrive after departures and that must be honoured. We have therefore preferred to keep enough room to deal with these different obligations while knowing that – as I said in committee, which is why I am surprised that this issue is being discussed again as if it were a novelty – the amounts of these various budget lines will be reduced in the coming provisional appropriations, since at that time we will have a very precise view of the situation. With regard to language bonuses, also discussed in committee, the additional amounts indicated in the provisional appropriations are only used to cover the indisputably due – I must point out – on language bonuses for 2015, 2016 and 2017. So we cannot say that we are in haste to settle things. But when you owe money to a third party, there's still a time when you make sure you honor your debt. And we don't do it any way because we live in a rule of law, with the taxpayer's money. This is done on the basis of the Selor's validation of his certificates. On this basis, a Dimona check is carried out. The Finance Inspectorate then validates the amounts to be paid. No one can therefore dispute the amounts indisputably due, but it is also quite normal that they should be included in the provisional appropriations. I would add that the Court of Auditors had time to look at the latter and did not consider that these expenditure were a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u42	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u43	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (25/4+1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (25/4+1) The bill has 22 clauses. The draft law has 22 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u44	Art.2 (table/tabel p. 210) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 14 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 19 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 15... Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 20... Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 16 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u45	• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 21 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 17 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 18 Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u46	· 23.. Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u47	· 24... Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u48	· 32 Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u49	· 22 · Sander Loones cs (25/5) · 33 · Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u50	· 26.. Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u51	· 25... Sander Loones (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u52	· 34... Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u53	· 27......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u54	· 31... Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u55	• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 35 Raoul Hedebouw cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u56	· 29... Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u57	· 28... Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u58	· 30.. Sander Loones cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u59	13... Wouter Vermeersch cs (25/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u60	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u61	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 2 and 9 as well as the annexed tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u62	Article adopted by article: 1, 3 to 8 and 10 to 22. ****** Does anyone specifically ask to speak on a particular amendment? I understand that the speakers have already referred to their amendments in their speeches. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u63	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, the SPF Santé publique published a fifth call for candidates to the Moniteur belge of 25 February 2019 for two vacancies of alternate French-speaking members for the Doctor of Science category. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, the FPS Public Health announced a fifth call to candidates in the Belgian State Gazette of 25 February 2019 for the two missing mandates of French-speaking alternate member of the PhD category. Only one application was submitted, namely that of Mr Luc Michel. Only one application, Mr Luc Michel's, was submitted. Therefore, one application is still missing. There's still one candidate missing. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of Mr Luc Michel to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2019, I propose that Mr Luc Michel's curriculum vitae be delivered to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u64	The mandate of the federal mediators expires on 18 November 2019. The mandate of the Federal Ombudsmen expires on 18 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u65	Candidates must provide proof of sufficient knowledge of other national languages. Candidates should provide proof of sufficient knowledge of the other national languages. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 July 2019, I propose that you start the procedure for the renewal of mandates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 July 2019, I propose that the procedure be started to renew the mandates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u66	No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u67	The Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights has a Board of Directors and a Council of Consultation. The Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights has a Governing Council and a Consultative Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u68	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2019, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of effective and alternate members and set the level of knowledge of German at level C1 for reading and B2 for oral expression. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 10 July 2019, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of effective and alternate member and establish the level of language knowledge German at C1 for reading and B2 for speaking. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u69	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2019, I propose that you proceed with the appointment of the delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2019, I propose that Members be appointed to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Pursuant to Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, such appointments shall be made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. May I remind you that the delegation is composed of 4 actual members and 3 alternate members and that the proportional distribution assigns: Pursuant to Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups. Subject to proportional representation, the composition of the delegation shall be composed of four permanent members and three alternates, as follows: N-VA: 1 effectif/fixed member 1 supplier/replacer Ecolo-Green: 1 effectif/fixed member PS: 1 staff/vast lid Flemish Interest: 1 staff/vast lid MR: 1 supplier/replacer CD&V: 1 supplier/replacer We must also take into account the gender distribution (art. 6.2.a. of the Statute of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe). The distribution between men and women must also be taken into account (Art. 6.2.a, of the Statute of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u70	The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: N-VA effectif/fixed member: Darya Safai supplyant/replacement: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh Ecolo-Green staff/vast lid: Simon Moutquin PS effectif/permanent member: Christophe Lacroix Flemish Interest effectif/permanent member: Tom Van Grieken MR supplyant/replacement: Marie-Christine Marghem CD&V supplyant/replacement: Els Van Hoof
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u71	I therefore declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe elected. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u72	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2019, I propose that you set up a special committee to monitor missions abroad. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 17 July 2019, I propose that the Special Committee be set up to monitor foreign missions. I propose that the special committee be composed of 13 effective members in accordance with the proportional representation system. The terms of reference of the Commission shall be as follows: I propose that the special committee be composed of 13 permanent members in accordance with the system of proportional representation. The mandates within the committee will be allocated as follows: N-VA: 2 Ecolo-Green: 2 PS: 2 Flemish Interest: 2
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u73	PVDA-PTB: 1 Open Vld: 1 sp.a: 1 No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. The following names were communicated by the presidents of the political groups: The following names were communicated by the chairmen of the political groups: N-VA: Theo Francken, Peter Buysrogge Ecolo-Green: Wouter De Vriendt, Samuel Cogolati PS: André Flahaux, Christophe Lacroix Flemish Interest: Annick Ponthier, Steven Creyelman MR: Kattrin Jadin CD&V: Hendrik Bogaert PVDA-PTB: Nadia Moscufo Open Vld: Tim Vandenput sp.a: Kris Verduyckt
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u74	The committee will meet in camera. Only members of the Special Committee may participate in the work of the Special Committee. The committee meets with closed doors. Only the members of the special committee will take part in the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u75	No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u76	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals for consideration. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u77	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[16]] Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u78	Vote on Amendment No 19 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[15]] Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u79	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 20 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u80	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 16 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 16 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u81	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u82	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 17 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 17 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u83	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 34 Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 23 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 33 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u84	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 32 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 32 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u85	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 34 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u86	Vote on Amendment No 33 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 33 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 34 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 26 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 34 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 25 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u87	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 34 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 34 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 33 Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 27 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 27 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 34 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 31 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u88	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 35 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 35 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 33 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 29 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 29 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 34 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 28 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 28 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u89	Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 30 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 30 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (25/5) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? May the result of the previous vote be ok apply to this vote? Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted, together with the annexed tables. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted as well as the annexed tables. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 9. (25/5) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 9. (25/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 34 Yes No. 91 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 78 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 126 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (25/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (25/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u91	Mr President, I plead guilty. Because of a lack of attention from me, I have put my group on the wrong track. Some have been able to correct that, others have not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-plenair-ip004x.u92	On the wrong foot, you say, Mr Verherstraeten? I'll take note of that. I wish you all a good recess. The Land Defense Commission will meet at 4.30 p.m. I wish everyone a virtuous vacation. We'll meet again in September. The sitting is closed. The Chamber shall be divided until further notice. The meeting is adjourned. The Chamber adjourned until further convocation.
