ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must apologise to the chairman of the committee, Mr Brecht Vermeulen. I'll do my best to take over his job. To those Members who do not know yet, I can inform them that many texts and PowerPoint presentations have been sent via e-mail. Mr Roosemont's explanatory note from the Foreign Affairs Office will be distributed later in the afternoon, after his presentation, so that everyone remains genuinely attentive. According to the agenda, Mr Roosemont will speak first of the Foreign Office, then Mr Van den Bulck of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, and finally Myria's policy staff will follow. I would like to thank all the speakers in advance for coming and preparing them. I know that it is not always obvious to do so on such short notice. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee, we would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that the speakers should all speak first, that we should then record the questions and then have them answered per person or item. Is everyone okay with that? [[Assent]] I give the floor to Mr Roosemont for his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for letting DVZ speak with this hearing. Apart from the limitations of the ongoing judicial investigation, I still need to clarify a number of matters. First of all, I must contradict a message from the media: the police and the police have not been invaded by the Foreign Office. At the request of the police, there was indeed a meeting, an appointment on 22 January, mainly to discuss the procedures and cooperation between the police and DVZ for the near future. After all, it's about a lot of files and work. However, it was certainly not a raid, as was stated in a number of media reports. Secondly, and this is more important, I would like to clarify what a humanitarian visa is. A humanitarian visa is an authorisation to stay on the basis of Article 9 of the Aliens Act which is specifically not covered by any of the other groups. The other groups are family reunification, residence permits for studies and residence permits for work. All that falls outside, so Group 4, is coded by the Foreign Ministers at the Consulate, which are the ones who also effectively issue the visa as a humanitarian visa. Later in the speech you will see and hear that this is not always so urgent and humanitarian. In that specific group of humanitarian visas, we distinguish between four different procedures. There is the relocation, which is not being discussed here today and has little interest in this meeting. This concerns asylum seekers who reside in one EU country and are transferred to another EU country for further treatment. A traditional situation, for example, is from Greece to Belgium. The number of relocations in 2018 was quite limited. On the other hand, we are talking about significant numbers for 2016 and 2017. In the note you will find those numbers. This is, of course, the result of the EU-Turkey deal, which was very topical at the time. In 2016, there were 189 relocations, in 2017 838 and in 2018 58. Since these are intra-EU relocations and people do not need a visa or authorisation to stay in order to come to Belgium, but often a travel document, a laissez-passer, they are outside the scope of this hearing. The second procedure, resettlement, is something else, in particular an authorisation to stay for people who have already left conflict areas. Often they stay in one of the neighbouring countries in a refugee camp, where living conditions are often precarious. In order to alleviate the burden of those receiving countries, the EU proposes a distribution. Belgium has often participated in this in recent years. The traditional examples are Syrians from Turkey and Lebanon, Burundians from Congo, people from Eritrea and Ethiopia or Uganda. That's a wide range. The figures were 381 in 2016, 1 187 in 2017 and 882 in 2018. The Commissioner-General for Refugees, who will also be speaking today, can tell you more about these procedures, as his department intervenes in that selection. In the case of resettlement, it shall be determined in advance, first by the HCR and later by the Commissioner-General, whether the proposed person can be granted an international protection status. Each refugee selected by Belgium for resettlement shall in principle be heard by a protection officer of the Commission during a selection mission in the country of asylum. Those missions shall be prepared in close cooperation with UNHCR and UN. On the basis of the UNHCR file, the safety analyses and the interview of the people by the Commissioner-General, the Commissioner-General will then draw up an opinion for selection for the State Secretary. The Secretary of State then instructs the Department of Foreign Affairs to issue the required documents to enable a legal entry into the Belgian territory. The coordination, practical implementation and organisation of the transfer is carried out by Fedasil, who works closely with Foreign Affairs and the IOM. You can find all these things in the note that will be distributed later. As you have heard, the role of DVZ in that procedure is relatively limited. We carry out the instructions of the Secretary of State or the Minister and provide a list of names to foreign ministers, consulates and embassies, who are required to issue a visa or a residence permit. So we deliver a list of names to the consulate, which then invites the people to do what is necessary. The third group concerns the individual applications submitted in the Belgian embassies. As I have already said, this is a third-country national who is asking permission to stay in Belgium for more than 90 days. Up to 90 days it is a C-visa, above 90 days it becomes an authorization to stay normally one year or more with a D-visa. Those authorisations are based on Article 9 of the Aliens Act and their treatment falls within the competence of the Minister or Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration or his delegate, who is the Department of Foreign Affairs in this matter. It is important to point out that the adjective "humanitarian" is generally used in this context when a third-country national cannot prove that he fulfils the conditions required by the legislator to be admitted or authorised. Humanitarian visa or authorisation applications therefore cover a number of situations, which are not necessarily urgent or even humanitarian. It can be applied for, for example, by members of a family who no longer have the right to family reunification, because one or more children are too old and exceed the age limit for family reunification, but it would not be acceptable to split up the family and leave one or two daughters in the country of origin, for example, while the rest of the family could come to Belgium. Another example is children under custody. They are also not specifically covered by family reunification. The parents of a child who has received international protection can also invoke family reunification, but the brother and sister cannot do so under current legislation. People who want to bring themselves or their families to safety for different reasons can also make such an application. We analyse these requests on a case-by-case basis on the basis of what is submitted to the application and the information contained in our file on, for example, the family or similar situations. On this basis, we decide whether or not an authorisation is granted. In 2018 we issued 230 permissions and refused 392 permissions. Originally, before March 2017, they were often visas C. Later on, I will give global figures showing that the change from visa C to visa D, to authorisations, took place in March 2017 as a result of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the framework of the European Union's decision on the issue of humanitarian visas, which was much discussed here too, when Europe decided that visa C was very clearly only for short stays and not for people who wanted to settle somewhere. Until March 2017, both visas D and visa C were used, depending on what the person applied for and what the person called for. Those are three procedures, the fourth is probably the most up-to-date. As a result of the Panoreportage and the announcement of the Antwerp parquet, the fourth procedure is particularly important. We have called the fourth procedure 'exceptional rescue operations'. Everything started with the rescue of 244 Christians from Aleppo in 2015, along with 37 Syrians from Northern Syria. These persons were selected by the Syrian Orthodox Church. A number of organizations and well-known people from Belgium came to the Foreign Affairs Office and the then Secretary of State to do something for those people. We are talking about 2015 and the situation in Aleppo which was very precarious, especially for Christians. At that time, the Secretary of State decided to do something for them, given the vulnerability of those people, which was a very important criterion. At that time, we worked together on a procedure so that these people could effectively leave Syria, go to a Belgian consulate in Beirut and then move on to Brussels, with the option of applying for asylum here, to apply for protection. The Secretary of State also announced other rescue operations of the same nature and for the same target group. He kept doing that. I will give you the figures for 2018, but we have continued to do so. This was a procedure that bumped into little or no resistance before the fuss of the last two weeks. How did that procedure go? The Secretary of State's Office sent a list of persons to the Foreign Affairs Office with the instruction to consult the Security of the State and the OCAD for a security screening of those people who could potentially happen. Both departments did so systematically. No one has come back with a negative opinion at any time. We then sent the result of that consultation to the cabinet. The cabinet then confirmed the selection and instructed the Foreign Office to contact the diplomatic post to make an appointment for the selected persons. They then provided a visa D and on request also a pass-through certificate for persons who did not have a valid grey document, i.e. no valid passport, anymore. After all, most people there had no valid passport anymore. A pass-through certificate had to be issued for them. That was the situation. The procedure may seem a little unusual, because the Aliens Office works with an individual file for individual applications. However, as I will explain later, this is not so unusual. Whoever got on the list and how that list was compiled are questions I can't answer. We were sent those lists. I understand that the former Secretary of State will also be heard on the committee. You'll have to ask him to explain how things were motivated. However, I would point out that the recognition of asylum seekers from Syria was very high at the time, which is still the case. The Commissioner-General will be able to give you the exact figure, but it is still running around or above 90%. A large part of the asylum seekers from Syria who are joining us today at the counter of the Foreign Affairs Service are people who have Islam as their religion. I believe that this is more than 95%. The rescue of Aleppo involved Syrian Christians, the Christian minority. Apparently, they do not spontaneously get to Brussels. All asylum seekers, whether they have entered with an authorisation, have entered spontaneously or no matter how they have ended up at the border or on Zaventem, are treated in the same way and according to the same procedure, both by the Foreign Office and by the Commissioner-General, I suppose. So all people go through the same procedure with the same criteria and the same end result, if their application is effective. Why did the Foreign Office work with lists? That's not the first time. The evacuation from Rwanda in 1994, for example, has been carried out on the basis of lists, as with the regime for the adoption children from Tahiti following the earthquake in January 2010, which we were able to deal with very quickly together with our Foreign Affairs colleagues on the basis of children's lists of names. The procedure with lists may be unusual, but certainly not completely new. If the transfer of power by the Congolese President after the elections had turned into violence a few days ago, I am sure that we should have been working again with lists. There is no other option if there is an urgent need to work and if it cannot be done with an individual application. In what way do we get the lists of the cabinet and have to carry them out, you should ask the then Secretary of State. We note that five lists of Melikan arrived in 2018 and three lists of Melikan-Delvaux. I have been informed in the media that this is the suspected aggregation of, on the one hand, the person from Mechelen who filed files and, on the other hand, a former rector at a French-speaking university, who would have also placed thirty-two names. Van Melikan himself, the person the Panoreportage was about, would have been 225 people for 2018. How many visas are we talking about? In 2013 we had 223 visa applications C and 174 positive decisions, in 2015 841 applications and 719 positive decisions, in 2018 267 applications and 161 positive decisions. In fact, the figures for other years are in a note. On the other hand, with regard to visa D, we have 196 applications in 2013 and 96 positive decisions, 420 applications and 124 positive decisions in 2015 and 2 466 applications and 1 988 positive decisions in 2018. Clearly, this is not just about Syrians, it is about all situations and all nationalities. I come to my final point. Mrs De Block, the current Minister for Asylum and Migration, has asked us to investigate the situation of all those people. We're working on that. Given the number, it will take a few weeks. In that investigation, we give priority to the Melikan lists. This can also be useful for the judicial investigation. The police have explicitly asked us to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly outline a number of points. More information and the main elements of my statement were given to you in advance. I understand they can be accessed through your intranet. As Freddy Roosemont has already pointed out, the discussion should distinguish between different procedures: firstly, the procedure of resettlement, resettlement of refugees; secondly, relocation; thirdly, humanitarian visas in the strict sense of the word. Freddy Roosemont has already explained this, so I can confine myself to providing some additional information on resolution. This is a programme in which the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless is strongly involved. In this case, it concerns the transfer of refugees from the region of origin within the framework of resettlement programmes of the International Refugee Organisation UNHCR. In this case, UNHCR will pre-selection. It is a pre-selection based on both the need for protection and the vulnerability. This is based on a view of the overall situation of all refugees in the world in an otherwise extensive programme, in which more than hundreds of thousands of refugees are identified as priority beneficiaries of resettlement each year. There is therefore a pre-selection by the international refugee organisation, followed by a thorough investigation by the CGVS, my organisation, on the basis of the UNHCR file and in most cases also a preliminary interview and investigation on the ground by organising a mission to the place where the refugees reside. Afterwards, a visa authorisation is granted and the crossing is organised by Fedasil, who also takes care of the reception and assistance of the refugees in Belgium. I have provided you with more information about, among other things, the organisation, resolution and figures and can be found in the annex. You will find more information on how the vulnerability investigation is conducted, the way the procedure is organised and figures on the organisation of resolution in recent years. Secondly, how has the CGIS been involved in the granting of humanitarian visas in recent years? I am talking about humanitarian visas in a strict sense and not about resettlement. I can be clear about that. The CGVS was involved in 2015 in a discussion on the possibility of organising a project on the issue of humanitarian visas, which I did not mention in the note. We have given legal advice and advice on similar projects abroad. These were mainly projects of private sponsorship in France, Germany, Ireland and some other EU Member States. I will return to the legal advice later. It was therefore a question of involving itself in a preliminary, general investigation into the possibility of granting humanitarian visas and whether or not to develop a system of criteria. Secondly, how has the Commissioner-General been involved in the procedure, the investigation, of individual files? I can say that the Commissioner-General was involved in issuing visas for the first group. Freddy Roosemont has already indicated this, which was a group of Christians from Aleppo, about 250 people. It was people, Christians, who lived on the front line in Aleppo, where the situation was particularly acute at that time. For this group, the Commissioner-General gave a brief opinion in advance, at least for a number, on the basis of a sheet drawn up by the persons responsible for the organisation. This was a short sheet, in which we checked whether there were indications in that sheet that might have been problematic, whether or not they indicated a lack of protection. That was a sheet, drawn up by the organizers themselves, with limited information, from which some information could be obtained but no information that allowed us to conduct a thorough investigation. But at least we were involved. That goes for the first group. For all other visas or applications, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, in any way, was not involved. We haven't been asked for any advice. It is not generally within our competence either. The Commissioner-General has not been involved. Thirdly, all applications for international protection applications for asylum in the old terminology "' shall be treated in the same way, irrespective of the way in which the persons have entered. We are examining applications for international protection, for granting refugee status or subsidiary protection, in the same way. This means: the same way in case of entry into the framework of resettlement or into the framework of entry with a humanitarian visa or another visa. But it also happens in the same way for someone who enters without a visa. The examination of the need for protection, the examination of identity, nationality, origin, the examination of indications of exclusion or indications of national security shall be carried out in the same way in all files. There is no distinction according to the method of entry. I can make that very clear. Fourthly and finally about our role: an overview of how decisions have been taken, or the extent to which persons who have entered with this visa have applied for asylum or applied for international protection, I cannot give you at this time. Just because I do not have a full view from the Commissioner-General of the persons to whom a humanitarian visa has been granted. If my colleague from the Foreign Office gives me such an overview, I can investigate. Then I can say: voilà, they have or have not applied for asylum, and that decision has been taken. What I can say is what Freddy Roosemont has already mentioned, namely that persons from Syria are generally granted protection status. That is refugee status or subsidiary protection status. This has to do with the particularly serious situation, still, in Syria. That situation can evolve. Perhaps in six months' time or in a year's time, we will assess the situation differently. That is possible, although I am not under much illusions, because then many people may still need protection. Maybe less systematic than now. That will depend on evolution. I have indicated the rates of recognition in the note. You will notice that this percentage was 96.5% in 2016 and that it was slightly lower in 2018. It was still high, but it was 87.34 %. The fact that this recognition rate is lower is mainly due to the fact that more people have applied for asylum who already had status in one of the Member States of the European Union. These are clearly not people who enter with a humanitarian visa, because they come directly from the region of origin. Most persons coming from Syria are clearly in need of protection and are granted refugee status, in most cases, or otherwise subsidiary protection. As I pointed out, the main reason for refusal is that they already have protection status in another Member State. This may be a Member State in the south of Europe, but sometimes they are also people who already have status in Germany but want to come to Belgium for some reason. There are also people who have dual nationality, such as someone with Syrian and Lebanese nationality, or with Syrian and Tunisian nationality. It also happens more than once that someone is Syrian and Armenian. In that case, taking into account the Geneva Convention, we are taking a decision of refusal, because for persons of dual nationality a status is only granted if it is established that there is a legitimate fear of persecution in both countries. Finally, I would like to make a few final remarks. I was referring to the fact that, at a certain point in time, we had a legal examination of this problem from the Commissioner-General. I can say a lot about that. First of all, I will be brief. It is our view that, taking into account current legislation, it is difficult to establish criteria by means of an instruction or circular. There are several elements of importance. One element is already the observation that it is not possible, in principle, to act by means of a circular or instruction. Another element that is important in the discussion is that it is also difficult to establish quotas without a specific legal basis. Certainly if one creates at a certain point something that could give people the opportunity to say that a subjective right has been created. This does not alter the fact that a number of things can be dealt with differently, but we believe that this will require a change in the law. Certainly if a quota system is to be established, this will require a legislative change. That is a first observation. A second remark has also been made recently at a colloquium. In my view, resettlement offers many advantages, many advantages, compared to other projects for the delivery of refugees from the region of origin. I'll give you the most important one in a row. Pre-selection is carried out in this case by an international organisation with a general view of the situation of refugees in the world, of all refugees in the world. In this way, therefore, I think that it is better to find out where the needs are most, to find out where the people who are in the most vulnerable position are. Moreover, it is an organisation with a very far-reaching professional view of the matter, and with professionals to check where the most vulnerable people are, to determine whether they are persons in need of protection. It may examine further elements. On the other hand, and I can give you more information about this, the UNHCR has now developed a far-reaching anti-fraud programme. After some time, when the UNHCR started resettlement, that organisation discovered that it was confronted with filières who acted on them and tried to use them. To this end, and I can give more information on this if necessary, the UNHCR has drawn up special programmes precisely to prevent fraud. This concerns both identity, origin, presentation and the need for protection, vulnerability and so on. In short, the involvement of UNHCR is therefore a very important factor. Another factor, I believe, is that in the event of resolution, in addition to the UNHCR's prior investigation, there is also a far-reaching investigation by my services. This is first and foremost an investigation into the need for protection. But this also includes indications of national security, exclusion and so on. There is also, if necessary, an investigation into elements of vulnerability. This is also based on the provisions laid down in the Residence and Settlement programmes, advice given by intelligence services such as State Security or Military Intelligence, and the Federal Police. In my opinion, this means that resolution has many advantages, and this is mainly due to the professional approach, compared to other programmes. That is why I will argue for an extension of resettlement rather than other programmes, which does not necessarily mean that other programmes should be completely excluded. After all, it is possible, and I am only making a few suggestions, to involve more organisations in the framework of resolution than at present through private sponsorship organisations. This applies in particular to the organisation of reception and guidance, not to pre-selection and certainly not to selection. Secondly, the organisation of the possibility of extended family reunification is not excluded for persons from special regions where the need for protection is very high, and for family members of persons established in Belgium. They could be refugees, but they could also be Belgians. This can be organized in a special way, with or without quotas. Thirdly, it can still be ad hoc for very special acute situations, and this can be verified in advance, whether there are possibilities for sending refugees from the region. These are briefly some notes and information in a row. I am open to all your questions and providing additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u4	Thank you, Mr Van den Bulck. Then I give the floor to Myria. They are present with three persons: Mr François De Smet, Director; Mrs Astrid Declercq, Policy Officer, and Mrs Ina Vandenberghe, Policy Officer. I give the floor to Mr De Smet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u5	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your invitation. As a reminder, Myria is an independent public institution with three missions: - to monitor the fundamental rights of foreigners; - information on the nature and extent of migration flows; - to stimulate the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. I assume that it was in order to share with you our expertise on humanitarian visas that we were invited to be heard today, in accordance with our first two missions. Indeed, since November 2016, we have begun to look at this global issue of humanitarian visas. We did so on our own initiative; indeed, he was intriguing us with his apparent lack of transparency. This was reflected in the figures and data available. I am not talking so much about the number of humanitarian visas, which is an official fact, but about how these visas are granted. As far as this hearing is concerned and in order to try to move the debate forward as far as possible, my colleagues and I have undertaken to synthesize and model, in the note that you are going to receive and which we are going to present to you today, the known state of the situation, according to the information that we have had access to. Even if a great deal of information has already been given, we will sum up the way the procedure is going, and how we can interpret the existing figures, and we will make a series of recommendations and proposals to look at the future in terms of framework. Myria's main line of thinking is that the granting of humanitarian visas can remain a discretionary competence. This is even to a great extent desirable, but there is a way to limit the share of arbitrariness, or even annihilating it. I would like to make one more point before speaking to my colleagues. To work on the figures for humanitarian visas, we have been using the visa database that the FPS Foreign Affairs has made available for analysis in recent years. This database is very rich. It includes data on the date of issue and application, nature, diplomatic post, age, sex, etc. However, it does not allow today to analyse the precise reasons for issuing a humanitarian visa. It is not possible to identify in the database those persons who have received a humanitarian visa as part of a resettlement, rescue operation or through another channel. So you will see that the data we are going to share with you is the result of cross-checking from the database we have, but also from as diverse and varied sources as other data exchanges, tweets from the former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, press articles or various communications that the actors in this file have been able to make over the last two or three years. That's for the frame. I will speak immediately to Ina to begin the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u6	Good afternoon, I will raise a number of points. I'll talk about what the law says about humanitarian visas. I shall be very brief, Mr President, and many things have already been said about the categories that we believe are eligible for visas and what procedure they follow. We want to emphasise the differences in procedure between these different categories. Finally, I will give you some figures. As Mr De Smet just said, it concerns data from the visa database that you see there and which may also differ from the data given earlier here. I'll start with the first thing: what does the law say? It has just been mentioned: you will not find the concept of 'humanitarian visas' in the law. They are issued under the general discretion of the Secretary of State. As far as humanitarian long-stay visas are concerned, that is Article 9 of the Aliens Act, which has just been explained. I would like to mention briefly that there are also short-stay humanitarian visas. There the legal basis is actually the visa code. The visa code determines who is eligible for entry into the Schengen area, who can obtain a Schengen visa. However, Member States have the possibility, strictly speaking, to issue a visa for humanitarian reasons if someone does not comply with it. That is a Schengen visa which is valid only for Belgium. You can also see some data here on the slide. It may not surprise you that the number of humanitarian visas is rising after 2015, although we see a slight decrease in 2018. In blue you will see the humanitarian short-stay visas delivered, in green the humanitarian long-stay visas. For 2018 a total of 2 174, of which a large majority is 92 %, long stay visas. You can see that this relationship has changed, but the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs has already referred to it: that ratio has changed following the judgment of the European Court of Justice in March 2017. It was a judgment that did not rule on the substance, but as a result of which there was a change of practice, which resulted in much more visa D being issued. This is for the simple reason that the Court said that if someone comes to Belgium with a view to applying for asylum, even if they apply for short stays, that is not really possible. If it is to apply for asylum in Belgium, it must be a long-stay visa, because it is intended to be in Belgium for a long time. As a result, all resettlements and so on became D visas, i.e. long-stay visas. I will deal with the categories that we believe have received a humanitarian visa. I can't extract that data from the visa database. Those categories are not included. In the presentation we will nevertheless try to give some indications by category on the basis of other indicators and from what we think we can derive from them. In the case of the large categories, we cannot deal with each individual case. After all, it is a discretionary power. However, in the majority of cases we believe that this is a resettlement operation, on the one hand, I do not need to explain this or, on the other hand, a rescue operation, as we are discussing today. Thirdly, there is another category which has been briefly mentioned, but which we would like to emphasize. In fact, it is the ordinary procedure, whereby an application is made to the diplomatic post and is dealt with by the DVD, which in practice is usually about forms of extensive family reunification, more specifically family reunification, to which there is also a protection element. It concerns family members of people who are already residing in Belgium. The people who already reside in Belgium are often refugees. The example has already been cited. For example, we are dealing with a refugee, a Syrian, who can have his partner and underage children through family reunification. However, if he has an adult son or daughter of 18, 19 or 20 years of age, a humanitarian visa may be a way out. The fourth category is the short stay. Very specific is the classic example of a funeral. Someone wants to travel very quickly, but, strictly speaking, does not meet the entry conditions to obtain a Schengen visa. A short-stay visa may be issued for a funeral or urgent medical procedure. I would also like to comment on the procedure. As has just been mentioned, the procedures are different for each group. I will immediately start on the slide with the third group, being the relatives of people who already reside in Belgium. That is what the ordinary procedure is for. The person concerned shall apply to the diplomatic post. That application will be dealt with by the Department of Foreign Affairs. I would like to point out that this is a long, expensive and difficult procedure, the outcome of which is particularly uncertain. Myria also accompanies such files. We see such cases in practice. My colleague Astrid Declercq will come back to this in a moment. However, this procedure is very different from other long-stay procedures. You can see them on the slide, especially resettlement and rescue operations. There has already been extensive discussion of the fact that there is a framework for resettlement, but the final issue of the visa is a formality. It's about after someone's been selected, he should be able to enter Belgium. In that case, a humanitarian visa will be issued to subsequently enter the asylum procedure. This is also the case in the rescue operations, but that is where the selection is made, as we understand it now, through intermediaries or organisations, after which they will be approved by the Cabinet, but also here a list goes to the diplomatic post where the visas are delivered. There is therefore a great contrast between the ordinary procedure, which is not exclusively used, but very often by family members. This is a difficult procedure compared to those other procedures, in particular those rescue operations, where the issue of the visa is rather a formality. A few more figures. It is quite clear that the Syrians are the most important nationality in these humanitarian visas. Seventy-seven percent of the total number of visas delivered in 2018 concerns Syrians. All nationalities together are about a small two thousand long stay visas and a small two hundred short stay visas. In the long-stay visas we see that the Syrians with 1 537 are the largest part. Afghanistan follows at a distance with 189, then Somalia follows. The top three at the short stay visa, is about very different numbers, but also about other nationalities, such as Congolese, Moroccan and Rwandan. I have already told you that we cannot see in the database how many resettlements and how many rescue operations there have been. What we do know comes from information from other sources. In the visa database we see that these data have been divided between visas for which there has been a DVZ agreement and visas issued by the post on their own initiative. In the meantime, we understand - and this has been confirmed to us - that this is about lists that have been passed on to the diplomatic post by the Cabinet or the Foreign Office, not the ordinary procedure. For all nationalities together we see that a good quarter happened after agreement of DVZ and that 72% was an automatic delivery by the post. As far as the Syrians are concerned, that distinction is even greater. There we see that a small 10% occurred after an agreement of the Foreign Office and that 91 % of it is automatic delivery by post. I have the same data for 2018 for the long-stay humanitarian visas and only for the Syrians. For the Syrians, we know that only one short-stay visa has been issued. You will see here data per month of long stay, again with the distinction, delivered by post or after agreement by DVZ. You will see a clear peak in the summer months, with the highest number in September. Declarations for delivery by post are in our opinion, and this is confirmed by others, on the one hand, resettlement and, on the other hand, rescue operations. In the next slide we build on that thought. You will see the top 5 of long-stay humanitarian visas, the top 5 of nationalities, with Syria first and foremost. To indicate the proportions, we can see that most of the humanitarian visas issued by the post can be explained on the basis of resettlement and only on that basis. We know that the rescue operations are mainly about Syrians and especially the Christian Syrians. There we see that the number is higher than the number of resettlements. On this slide I added the resettlement rates for 2018. You will see 10 Somalis, you will also see 10 of them of their own motion delivered by the post, 1 Iraqi has come to Belgium via resettlement, 1 of their own delivery by the post, and 33 Eritreans, which corresponds to the 33 humanitarian visas issued by the post on their own. For the Congolese, it is not quite the same, but we can explain that because the humanitarian visas were delivered in 2017. The only nationality for which it does not exactly match is the Syrians, and that is because we assume that, in addition to resettlements, there have been rescue operations by Syrians who state that there has also been an automatic delivery by the post in these cases. Here you see the resettlement rates placed next to it. You will see the total number and resettlements: 880 resettlements for all nationalities together in 2018. That brings us to the next slide, after which I give the floor to my colleague. Assuming this hypothesis, which seems plausible to us and which is confirmed by the sources we have, we see very clearly that the number of rescue operations since 2015 has increased. For 2018, the figures are still a lot higher than in 2017. In 2018, about half of the cases concerned resettlement and around 40% rescue operations. The 9 % you see refers to the normal DVZ procedure. From our experience we can say that this is mostly about family members of persons already residing in Belgium. All these figures are also in the note which is being distributed or which you have already received. I shall now pass on the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u7	I will look into the rescue operations and the procedure by which we refer to the DVZ procedure for applications submitted to the embassy and dealt with by DVZ. First, I'll discuss what we know about the rescue operations. On the slide you will see the tweet of former Secretary of State Theo Francken of 21 January 2019. Only since then do we have an overview of the various initiators and of the total number of visas issued in the context of the rescue operations. 1 501 visas were issued. With the exception of the rescue operations in 2015 and the humanitarian corridor organised by Sant' Egidio, the other initiatives were not communicated at the time. In September 2018, we held an interview with Sant' Egidio, from which we know that there was an official agreement, a declaration of intent between the Secretary of State and Sant' Egidio, with the aim of transferring 150 Syrians from Lebanon and Turkey. Once they arrived in Belgium, they were escorted to the asylum procedure. It was clearly a public-private partnership in which reception was financed by Sant' Egidio and the other religious communities which were also part of the partnership of that agreement. The cost of that visa procedure was fully borne by Sant' Egidio and the other religious communities. We have also questioned the method of selection. In essence, the selection took place in Turkey and Lebanon. We know that a criterion of vulnerability has played a role. Also belonging to a religious-ethnicly threatened minority and ties with Belgium could play a role. It is difficult to assess exactly how the selection took place on the ground, but it is true that we are much more in the dark for the other initiatives. For this information we didn't really know who the initiators were, but we still don't know what kind of relationship or connection there was between the various initiators and former Secretary of State Theo Francken. Nor do we know how to get on such a list and whether such lists were communicated. It is also not clear in how many cases the selection process took place in Belgium, in particular because people were listed by family members. There is therefore less on-the-spot selection. It is therefore not clear how many of the people in all these initiatives have entered the asylum procedure and whether they are all still in Belgium. In April 2018, we asked questions to the cabinet by e-mail. We were simply provided with information on the overall number of people who had arrived so far, but that was without split-up per initiator and there was no split-up per year, which made it difficult for us to analyse our figures in this respect. We also received brief answers to our questions about the course of the process. It was mainly indicated that everyone could address a question to the cabinet and that the application would then be assessed on a case-by-case basis. Our question as to whether there was a task force around the selection procedure was also answered that each case was assessed on a case-by-case basis. Myria wishes to distinguish in the rescue operations between two types of rescue operations based on the place where the selection took place in essence. In the first type, the selection took place in Syria or the neighbouring countries. Of course, there may be an intermediary or initiator in Belgium, but the selection was done on the spot, for example through networks of the organisation. These are rescue operations that we believe are more in line with resettlement practices, while it became clear, on the basis of the Panoreportage, but also on the basis of the information that was subsequently given by former Secretary of State Francken and by information that has come into the media, that it was often also about people who resided in Belgium and who had their family members listed. In this sense, we must also look at the procedure of extensive family reunification. It is a form of family reunification, of course for persons with protection needs. However, it is important to point out that in the case of family members there is also a common practice of lodging with the embassy and handling by DVZ. That distinction is important to us. It is perfectly possible and certainly not problematic for Myria to involve family members in the rescue operations. Often it was also about family members. If that is the case, the difference in approach must be clearly communicated and framed for us. It is also important, because there may be a possibility of unequal treatment in this area. It occurs to Myria that similar situations were assessed by another process. On the one hand, there were people who could have their family members listed. Once those family members were on lists, an agreement came from the cabinet. On the other hand, there were situations where individuals applied to the embassy on their own initiative, after which they entered into a procedure in which a substantive assessment was carried out by the Foreign Affairs Office. The latter is known as a very complex, long, expensive and uncertain procedure. In this sense, Myria is certainly asking to clarify how many of the 1 500 persons who came to Belgium in the context of those rescue operations belong to which category. In short, how many family members are we talking about? At the end of the list on one of the previous slides, there are individual files............................................................................................................................................................................................... We have read that this was often about family members as well. Again, the question arises as to whether the cabinet used the same kind of treatment, say substantive assessment, as DVZ, when family members submitted their file to the cabinet. Since we consider this important, I will also give a little more explanation in the DVZ procedure, as I call it for convenience, a procedure on the initiative of the applicant, submitted to the post and with a treatment on the substance by the Foreign Affairs Office. It's about discretion. It is legally the same jurisdiction as that of the Secretary of State. It's always about the Secretary of State or his agent. That discretionary power should not lead to arbitrariness. In the DVZ procedure, in any decision taken by the Department of Foreign Affairs, he must respect the principles of good administration, such as the obligation to state reasons and the principle of due diligence. The higher legal standards must also be respected. It can also be checked by means of review procedures. That's a difference from the way through the cabinet. There are therefore decisions which can be challenged if the principles were not respected. What are the situations in this procedure? In most cases it concerns family members who are not eligible for family reunification. Very often there are also special protection requirements for those family members in the country of origin. It is very often about Syrian family members of recognised refugees, who may have the same requirements for protection. On the basis of our individual casework, we see who can be involved: a mature child, actually adopted children or an isolated parent. Our individual casework shows that it is a complex procedure. For example, there is no legally defined treatment period, so that the procedure can sometimes take up to one year or longer before a decision is taken. The application can also not be submitted by a family member in Belgium, as happened with 'the cabinet road'. The application must be submitted to the embassy, which often involves multiple visits, at the time of submission, but also afterwards for the completion of the file, any DNA tests and the collection of the visa. In our 2017 analysis, we described how complex that can be for Syrians. In addition, it concerns a complex procedure, on which there is actually little conscience. There is also little information available at the embassies. It is also a costly procedure. It varies considerably from file to file, but the cost may be between EUR 3 000 and EUR 5 000. With the visa fee and the administrative contributions, we already have to count on almost EUR 500 for the application. There are also the expensive travel routes and documentary requirements. After all, one must be able to demonstrate his fragile situation as well as his medical situation. We must, of course, also be able to demonstrate family ties. In addition, the documents must be translated and legalised. That makes it all very expensive. This is also combined with the very uncertain outcome. It's very difficult to advise people about their chances of success. We notice that that often works terrifyingly to submit such an application. This uncertainty is primarily due to the lack of transparency about the factors involved in the Foreign Affairs Department's substantive assessment. On the basis of our individual casework, we can see which factors play a role by means of the refusal decisions. We see that close family ties play a role, including financial and ineffective dependence. Furthermore, it concerns the precarious or vulnerable, isolated situation of the applicant in the country of origin and the financial resources of the family member here in Belgium. This is assessed very differently depending on the file evaluator; in general we see a very strict assessment. I'm gonna go over the numbers. However, I have heard other figures from Mr Roosemont and perhaps it is necessary to sit together on this again. We arrive at 550 long-stay visas that were delivered after DVZ agreement. The most important nationalities can be seen. The refusal rate of 54% is also important. That actually shows how uncertain that procedure is. People will not just venture that investment to have a 50 percent chance of success.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u8	I will conclude with various recommendations and suggestions. We do not call for the humanitarian visa instrument to be called into question, even if today we are scrutinizing it. We believe that we need such a tool that enables people, especially in the event of a humanitarian crisis, to enjoy legal and secure access to our territory. But it is possible to develop a clearer and more objective framework. We therefore make a good distinction between discretionary competence and arbitrariness. Discretionary competence does not exempt from respect for a number of principles: that of legal certainty, according to which everyone must be able to estimate, foresee what to expect; the obligation to state reasons also and, perhaps and above all, another principle of good administration, namely equality. Similar situations should be treated in a similar manner and if differences in treatment can be justified, the distinction should have an objective basis. In this respect, and as my colleagues have explained, it seems that there are different procedures for similar situations: the relatively complex and difficult way of the Office of Foreigners or the way of the firm which seems a little simpler. Persons on the lists of rescue operations or who obtained authorization through the firm received treatment other than family members who applied for a humanitarian visa through the regular procedure. In our recommendations, on the one hand, we want a better statistical analysis of humanitarian visas. Figures for the different categories of long-stay humanitarian visa (relocation, rescue operation, extended family reunification, etc.) in the visa database should be made statistically usable. Statistical registration should also be extended, so that distribution is possible among potential partner organisations with which public authorities wish to collaborate. We would like all of this information to be available to Myria for analysis. On the other hand, we believe that an annual parliamentary debate should be held on the application of humanitarian visas, and that the members of the government responsible for this matter should be able to draw up a report on the policy carried out and provide detailed figures on a yearly basis. On that occasion, they could report on partnerships with organizations, which would bring great transparency to the policy. As far as rescue operations are concerned, we believe that these ad hoc initiatives, if Belgium wishes to pursue them, should be much better supervised. A discretionary share must be preserved, but the less important the supervision of the selection, the greater the risk of arbitrariness and personal preference. Several leads are possible. It's a little bit of the imagination in power. One can imagine a quota system - this has been mentioned - public-private collaborations, involving or not partners such as UNHCR. The most important criterion, which must really attract the attention of the government and parliamentarians, is that these collaborations must be subject to strict supervision. Organizations with which public authorities collaborate in this framework should have the necessary expertise, credibility and reliability. With regard to the so-called "more ordinary" procedure through the Office of Foreigners, we simply refer to our past publications and believe that progress still needs to be made in order to avoid unequal treatment. The procedure itself and its objectivation can be improved. For the procedure, it would be sufficient to implement in law a maximum period of treatment, allowing the introduction of the file by a family member residing in Belgium, reducing costs, exempting vulnerable persons from the famous administrative fee, flexible assessment of family ties and humanitarian situations and clearer technical guidelines on the procedure and language of applicants in embassies. As far as the objective of the procedure is concerned, this may be the result of the annual parliamentary debate that we suggest. It takes an opportunity for policy guidelines to be made public. This is not incompatible with discretion. Checks may be carried out ex post. This does not prevent beacons, including vulnerability, close family ties and even some financial means - humanitarian visas have already been issued on this basis. The burden of proof should not be too heavy and one of these factors should lead to the invalidity of others. That's what we had to tell you. Sorry for the fast and dense character of this note. Like my colleagues, we are at your disposal for any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u9	Thanks again to all the speakers, also for the clear overviews and the PowerPoint presentations that were forwarded or that DVZ will forward. I suspect there are questions? I think we should respect the usual order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Roosemont and Mr Van den Bulck and the three-member delegation from Myria for their presentation. I have a few more questions. Most of them have already been answered, for which I am grateful. My first question is addressed to Mr Van den Bulck. You have explained that the persons who receive a humanitarian visa are expected to submit an asylum application after arrival and that those asylum applications will be examined by your Commissioner on their merits, as with any other asylum application. No distinction shall be made according to the method of entry of the applicant for asylum. You explained the procedure very clearly. Perhaps you can confirm with a nod that from the cabinet of former Secretary of State Theo Francken there has never been a question to change or accelerate that procedure for people who had received a humanitarian visa from his cabinet. [[Mr Van den Bulck nods in the affirmative.]] I believe that you have implicitly replied to this, as you have emphasised that there is no distinction in the treatment of asylum applications, regardless of the method of entry, that each asylum application is treated in the same way. I think it is important to emphasise that. You clearly outlined the situation of Christians in Aleppo, Eastern Syria, during the period when humanitarian visas were given priority to Christians in Syria. Mr Roosemont did the same. I do not need to ask you any more, because you specifically said that the population needed protection at that time. Mr Roosemont specifically said that there was no other option, that it was a matter of vital importance and that working with these lists was the only way of working. You emphasised, and I think Mr Van den Bulck can confirm, that there was no other way to save Christians from Syria. Those Christians would never have used that word in a spontaneous way, Mr Roosemont, in Brussels, unlike other Syrians of other religions, who did have such opportunities. You, too, Mr Roosemont, have stressed that all persons who have applied for a humanitarian visa have arrived in Brussels, via the same procedure, through the same criteria and with the same end result, or have reached that humanitarian visa. Can you both confirm, Mr Roosemont and Mr Van den Bulck, that during the Syrian civil war UNHCR was not present in Aleppo and in the other regions where persecuted Christians resided? I believe that this is a very important point throughout this debate. UNHCR was not working on the Syrian territory where those persecuted Christians were staying at that time and where they were very difficult to get away from. The latter unlike Syrians with a different religious belief. Can you confirm that the then Secretary of State could not count on the UN to make an effort for these persecuted Christians and that the humanitarian visa system was the only means of rescue for these Syrian Christians? We hear Mrs De Block, the current Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, calling for the other system to be used only through the system of resettlement, and thus through the UN. I would like to hear your views on that. Mr Van den Bulck, you have also called for an extension of the system of resettlement. However, you have stressed that it is also important to maintain the system of humanitarian visas. I believe that you indicated that this is the only way to save Syrian Christians in Syria itself. It is very important to stress that the system proposed by Minister De Block, which would no longer work on humanitarian visas, will ensure that it will no longer be possible to rescue people from Syria with a humanitarian visa, because UNHCR is not working in Syria, but only in the refugee camps in Syria's safe neighbouring countries. However, for Syrian Christians it is damn difficult to even impossible to leave Syria and get safely into refugee camps outside Syria. UNHCR does not select on the basis of religion, and since the refugee camps are overwhelmingly populated by Islamic Syrians, humanitarian visas in the future threaten to go mainly to those Islamic Syrians and, if we follow the vision of Minister De Block, I believe that in the future it will no longer be possible to rescue Christians from the claws of IS. Is all this in line with the objective set out in our resettlement policy, in particular helping people for whom there is no sustainable protection in the region outside Syria? I have explained to you and to you that this is particularly the case for Syrian Christians. I wonder whether this is in line with the Parliament's resolution on the protection of persecuted religious minorities, which was adopted almost unanimously. With the exception of the Green Group, Mrs Pehlivan, and Mrs De Coninck, that resolution was unanimously adopted by the plenary in 2017 to protect persecuted religious minorities from the Middle East. It explicitly urges the government to make efforts to protect persecuted Christians and calls on the government to continue to prioritise the resettlement of the most vulnerable religious minorities under direct threat of persecution and eradication and also to cooperate with countries of origin on sustainable resettlement. I wonder whether Minister De Block's vision and statement can be reconciled with this resolution. Mr Roosemont, I have a specific question for you. You explained very clearly that there was no option other than to work with those lists. Given the situation at that time in Syria, given the facts and the geopolitical context of that moment, can I assume that you confirm that there was no other possibility, that there was no other way to organise and carry out that rescue operation? I have heard you say that, but in my opinion it is very important that you repeat that there was no other possibility in the whole procedure and the operation of delivering humanitarian visas, given the urgency, necessity and threat of life for those Syrian Christians, to rescue them from the claws of IS. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the report is made on the basis of the auditory recording. This means that yes nod, no shake, protrude a tongue or related matters are not recorded. For the sake of the report, you are requested to give an explicit oral reply in such a way that this can be properly included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank all the speakers and to point out that, for us, the challenge of these hearings is not to substitute for justice, but to understand the way in which we have come to the serious and shocking situation we are experiencing today, where intermediaries - perhaps smugglers - have been able to make money on the backs of people in despair, fleeing war, misery or persecution. It is mainly for us not to throw the baby with the bath water. Excuse me, Madam President, I think Mr. Franken is still communicating. I would therefore like at least to be able to intervene with the same respect that my colleague from the N-VA received in his speech! It is especially important for us not to throw the baby away with bath water, and it is clear that a flexible tool to help people who are exposed to human rights violations, but who do not fall within the framework of conventional channels, seems important to us, even essential. But discretion must not become arbitrary – and I agree with Mr. From Smet – and certainly not that opacity favors trafficking or personal enrichment of some. Indeed, what is problematic today is not to have saved people from persecution or war, but that, in the face of similar situations, it is realized that different procedures or criteria have been used. We will remember these two Syrian families (a Muslim, an Orthodox) who animated our debates, both here and in plenary, and who have never received their visas. Some previous interventions lead me to ask even more questions. The opacity is also to learn that an organization such as Myria does not have official figures and must go so far as to rely on a member of the government's tweets in order to be able to advance figures, which are as fair as possible, but which cannot be guaranteed that they are rigorously accurate. You'll correct me if I don't understand everything. According to the general scheme, we have understood that there are different kinds of visas: for short- and long-term stays, with or without restrictions on mobility within the Schengen area. We have also understood that the number of humanitarian visas has increased sharply since 2014-2015 and that these visas are therefore issued in different channels. Unfortunately, we are finding one today or, in any case, the drifts of some of these sectors. I heard that the lists given to the Foreign Office were being screened. Has this also been the case with intermediaries? Were the organizations with which we work on-site asked who these intermediaries were and how they played their role in the field? Did this information pass through the firm or was only one contact designated? You explained to us that you were forwarding lists to the State Security and the OCAM. Were these two bodies informed of their provenance, namely the office of the Secretary of State? Mr Roosemont, your department did not have direct contact with the applicants on the list, but rumours have been circulating about questionable procedures. Did you find out? If so, when? If I understand the e-mail sent to us by the FPS Foreign Affairs, it would still be so difficult to ask the consular services to issue visas to those on a list. Is this department identifying individuals mandated to accompany or coordinate groups? What exactly is the scope of the warrant thus issued? Were the attendants naturally willing to act as intermediaries? I come back here to my question about the screening of the latter. It is also said that it is rarely easy to apply for a humanitarian visa. You recalled that it is in particular because it is mandatory to go in person to the consulate or diplomatic post to make this request. Do you have any information on the practical course of this procedure? In hindsight, what elements, in your opinion, should have been present in order to allow effective control or to allow the administration to pull the alarm bell, whether to spot malfeasances or to avoid, allow me the expression, "the fact of the prince"? It should also be pointed out that too often the information was slow to reach Parliament. We have often debated and questioned the then Secretary of State on humanitarian visas. When he exercised his control over the matter, we even had the right to a reply from Mr Franken, which justified the secret nature of the rescue operations. For your part, how do you justify this opacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u13	Madam President, I would also like to add my thanks to those of my colleagues for your clarifications, which, in my humble opinion, are very much needed. Indeed, it is not very easy to find one another between the different concepts developed in the field of visas. Between resettlement, relocation, rescue is not always clear. As proof, I would like to refer to the general policy note drawn up in October by the former Secretary of State. Indeed, in this note, in the section on resettlement, there is also a reference to humanitarian visas for relief operations. I don't see a contradiction, but an ambiguity with your note, Mr. Roosemont. In this note that was distributed to us today, you are very clear. In your view, there are three distinct procedures and you have even ended up saying that humanitarian visas could be issued for non-humanitarian reasons. In any event, I note a sentence in your note, which states: "Humanitarian visa applications refer to multiple situations that do not necessarily have an urgent character or even a humanitarian character in their own sense." I come back to the starting point of my speech to repeat that it is not easy to find one another between the different concepts. I would like to add a complication, because personally, in reading the general policy note, I wonder whether we should also incorporate the concept of humanitarian regularization into all these concepts. In fact, in another part of the note, we are talking about the issue of residence permits for humanitarian regularizations. Is humanitarian regularization also aimed at situations such as the one you have detailed here or is it something quite separate? That is the first question I would like to ask you. The second is that of my astonishment when I hear Mr. From Smet tell us that they have to cross-check. You seem to have a number of numbers, tables. By the way, you're giving them to us. These paintings are apparently not available to Myria. I'd like to know why. Why does Myria have to work a little like an investigator, at the Sherlock Holmes, to be able to validate figures that you manage to provide us in a rather easy way. Is it an accounting that is done internally or is it accessible to everyone and, therefore, also to the members of this commission? I'm completely changing my registry. However, Mr. Roosemont explained that, systematically, the Office of Foreigners is called upon to give an opinion to the Secretary of State, whom he obviously transmits to the consular post. The Secretary of State then in office answered the same thing in 2016 in the Committee on the Interior to a question from one of our colleagues here. He replied: "Yes, a notice is requested systematically from the Office of Foreigners and is sent to the consular post". I have this answer here in front of me. However, I read on page 22 of Myria's report – I did not have time to read the update we had at the beginning of the session, but I imagine that this is still the case in this update – among the striking elements, that almost 875 visas granted were directly issued by the diplomatic post without intervention by the Office of Foreigners. In Myria's summary of his study at the time, "the large proportion of positive decisions" is actually underlined – it's very fair – and "other than the highly publicized files of two families that were alluded to earlier, only the applications of three people were refused in 2016 and apart from these negative decisions, all the decisions" – we are talking about the figures for short-stay visas, I believe – "were taken directly by the post without examination by the Office of Foreigners. So, Mr. Roosemont, issuing a notice prior to the issuance of a visa is not a general rule? It appears that, in many situations, the visa is issued without intervention by the Office of Foreigners. I would like to have a comment on that. Finally, I would like to refer to the question raised earlier by my colleague from the N-VA concerning UNHCR's presence. Do you confirm that, in the situations we are concerned about today, UNHCR was not on the ground? This would justify the use of intermediaries. We will have to ask about the quality of these questions and the criteria that prevailed when they were chosen, but I do not think you are the people to whom these questions should be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the 2015 migration crisis, I have repeatedly called for greater transparency in the handling of humanitarian visas in the hemisphere and in the committee. I have always indicated that it is a good thing that a case-by-case decision can be taken on the granting of an exception to allow someone to come to our country via a visa. That's good in itself. After all, it is not an ordinary migration channel. It is intended for exceptions, on which it should be possible to judge with caution. However, I have always insisted on greater transparency, not only in the choice of who is eligible, but also in the procedure to be followed. I have also raised several questions on the subject and on the course of events. In the meantime, we note what is also confirmed here, namely that there are generally three working procedures. There is the resolution, there are the rescue operations and there is a third group with individual files from among others family members. Rescue procedures are often structured in cooperation with NGOs, among others. There are sometimes some differences between one rescue operation and another, but DVZ is always involved. Furthermore, there is resolution. I hear Mr Van den Bulck pleading that this procedure should be applied even more. UNHCR is a professional organisation with experience in these situations and with the most vulnerable. Colleagues, where does it go wrong? What's it about? Mrs Smeyers, you are referring to group rescue operations, but that is not what our criticism of the past few weeks about visa fraud was about. When we talked about this, we were talking about individual cases, for which there is apparently also unequal treatment. It has already been noted by me and others and confirmed today by both DVZ and Myria that there are two ways for individual applications. There is the normal course of action, the application of which is made by diplomatic post or directly by DVZ. That's hard. There's a screening and that's more. Mr Roosemont, you have given figures on this, which show that you have rejected more applicants than you have allowed. Another possibility consisted of the procedure on the basis of the lists of the Francken cabinet. We have heard very little about this today, because the people who are being heard here have very little to say about it. They were not involved. DVZ did not have access to those lists and should not be subject to screening. The cabinet said it used its discretionary powers and wanted DVZ to deliver a humanitarian visa for the people on the cabinet's list. The only thing DVZ was allowed to do was a security check. That was also confirmed in the Seventh Day. That's how it turned out. Mrs Smeyers, it is not a question of humanitarian corridors, a possibility which we naturally support, although we may be able to fine-tune it here and there. That's not the big deal. The big problem is clientelism, because we are working with lists drawn up by a number of figures, figures in which one can seriously question. Such a problem could have been avoided if my question had been addressed a long time ago in order to achieve greater transparency in the procedure and in the selection of people who are allowed to come here. We have never said that people should not come here, quite the contrary. The question, however, is how this is to be arranged. I hear you now pleading for families that could not otherwise be saved, but I heard you say the opposite when it came to the one Syrian family that wanted to come to Belgium. That family was not allowed to come here, even though everything was arranged for that family and there was a family who would bear all the costs here. That family should not be given a visa, because there might be families coming here. I now find that one family is not the other. If one was friends with Kucam, one could have family and otherwise not. That's what we're suing here. It is not about the fact that we have, for example, followed up a particular resolution to save minorities. Of course, we do not think that is a problem. However, we think that this is a problem when it happens unilaterally. We find it absolutely no problem that Christian minorities are being rescued from Aleppo or anywhere else, but I would have liked other minorities to be saved too. For example, Rohingya from Myanmar also belong to an endangered minority. I haven't seen rescue operations for them. Apparently, they didn't think that was necessary. That's what I'm saying here. Apparently, double standards and weights are used. Mr Roosemont, I have regularly asked the former Secretary of State questions, which I know are being prepared by DVZ. I would like to talk about the answer to a question I asked in December 2016. I asked what the procedure was and how it was going. That answer showed that DVZ maintained a certain procedure. That was confirmed today by Myria. There are quite a few elements that you take into account. If you do a screening, you will take into account the relationship with Belgians, the place where the application was made, the vulnerability. A certain selection is already being made. Is that better? Maybe so, but there is already a certain review going on. You follow this method for certain groups, but it was apparently not followed for the lists that came to you from Theo Francken's cabinet. Your spokesperson stated on television that no further screening was carried out except for the mandatory security check, as the Secretary of State underlined his discretion to use. Since when do you get those lists? How many lists did you get? How many people are we talking about in total? Have previous ministers, Mrs De Block, worked with such lists? I don't remember that, but maybe you do. You have just referred to Congo and Haiti. In my view, this is about lists for humanitarian corridors. I don't have a problem with that. I am talking here about lists in Belgium of certain intermediaries going through the cabinet and not through DVZ. Can you tell me more about that? What then suddenly justifies a different approach for certain target groups? By the way, Mrs Smeyers, you miss shooting when you stress that the same procedure applies to everyone, as the former Secretary of State apparently said on television. Mr Van den Bulck has also underlined this and I expect the same procedure in Belgium to apply to everyone. It would be lacking! That's not the question. It's about who gets to come to Belgium. Does that happen at random or does it happen according to certain rules? That's what it's about. That is where we complain that political clientelism has taken place, that this has been done through lists and friendly people, within a party or outside. No one disputes that the Commissariat applies the same procedure to everyone once they are here in the country. Secondly, Mr Van den Bulck has indicated that he cannot say exactly how many people who have come through a humanitarian visa have received asylum because he cannot make that distinction. He might be able to if he got a list of DVZ. Mr Roosemont, you know which people have received a humanitarian visa. Can you provide Mr Van den Bulck with a list, as he asks, so that we can find out as soon as possible who got asylum and who did not? I would also like to know whether all those people who have come here have actually followed the way to apply for protection through asylum. You must tell me, Mr Roosemont, whether there is a group of people who have applied for humanitarian regularisation, who have not only come here through a certain visa, but who have subsequently not applied for refugee protection or subsidiary protection, but simply humanitarian regularisation. That too is something only the Secretary of State could decide on. Is that what happened? That's what I'd like to know from you, too. I would also like to know something from the Commissioner-General. You explained that you were not involved in advance. This is, of course, also difficult if it was only on the basis of lists, except for the cases of resolution, where you were able to work well with UNHCR. One of my questions was what cases they proposed to improve the humanitarian visa procedure. I note that we are on the same page and that you are also arguing, like others here in the Chamber, for at least greater transparency and objectivity. I would like to ask whether you also think there can be a role for the Advisory Committee on Foreigners. There is, and in certain cases they may be asked to advise the Secretary of State. In my opinion, all applications should be accompanied by at least the advice of DVZ. In some really complex cases, an additional opinion may then be requested from the Advisory Committee for Foreigners. In short, ladies and gentlemen, today we are once again hearing in black and white that there is a way through DVZ and a way through the cabinet. The DVZ-way is often difficult and cumbersome. The cabinet road is actually a shortcut, which shows a preference treatment for people. That's what we're suing. We're not suing the rescue of people. After all, how many times in this committee have I asked for the resolution to be extended, for example? I can hear Mr Van den Bulck confirm here that resolution is indeed a good way to bring vulnerable people here. Well, then bet on it. However, instead of strengthening the resolution, Secretary of State Francken decided not so long ago to put the resolution on hold for the time being. Now I understand why: he had his own ways to bring people here. That's what this is about. In my opinion, a minister can judge on a case-by-case basis who ultimately receives a visa. However, this must be done in a transparent manner, at least with the advice of DVZ and by a clear procedure, so that people can generally be explained that they can come to Belgium and how an application can be submitted. Those involved do not have to work through an intermediary and they certainly do not have to pay for it. Just arrange that directly with the Foreign Office; that's the issue. If it is our intention to protect vulnerable people, then we must ensure that this vulnerability cannot be abused. However, in the reportage we saw that several intermediaries probably also asked for money for it, which has to be determined further by the court. Even if no money was asked for it, I find it problematic that certain people can simply decide who is eligible for a visa and whether the applicant is placed at the top, at the bottom or not at all on that list. This should not happen à la tête du client, nor should it depend on someone's membership card, but it should be objective and transparent. Anyone who believes that there is a need for protection must be able to apply for protection. Next, DVZ should be able to judge this on the basis of all the elements in the file. From DVZ's figures, I noticed that there were just over 600 applications last year and less than half of them were approved. Exactly how that is to be found, but apparently DVZ felt that it was less necessary for a number of people to give them a visa and in three hundred cases she felt it was necessary. Finally, I would like to ask DVZ if he can give us much more clarity on the figures. Apparently Myria doesn't have the numbers by category either. I find it strange that I could read a number of global figures in De Standaard of 17 January. They are talking about a total of 6 561 files for the entire period, i.e. over a number of years. Of these, about half were resettlements and the other half were rescue operations or individual cases. Mr Roosemont, can you give us those figures? You gave a few figures today, but not all of them. I like to get numbers by category. That's also a question from Myria. How many have come through resolution, how many through rescue operations and how many through individual applications? Within these individual applications, I want to know how many have come through the cabinet lists and how much through the diplomatic post or DVZ.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are now at the second legislature in which we have carefully closed the borders. By this, I mean that we have made efforts to improve our legislation in areas where illegal use was made of legal means to set up a migration channel. We are thinking of nationality legislation, marriage of convenience, false recognition and cohabitation. We have carefully examined our existing regulations and looked at where they have been repeatedly abused in order to de facto illegal and unlawful entry into our territory. That legislation is strict. I believe that a large majority in this House has opted for such strict rules, including those relating to family reunification. I can clearly repeat this and confirm it for my group. As far as family reunification is concerned, we have indeed been very strict. In other words, only the partner and the underage children, and on condition that one can take care of them himself. The latter means that one must have a fixed income and one's own home, and must provide for one's own social security. If this is fulfilled, those concerned can be transferred to our territory to complete and resettle the family. I know that in some cases a solution is needed for urgent and humanitarian needs. Such a solution is sought with the application of Articles 9 and 13 of the Aliens Act. This has been explicitly confirmed here. Even in the past, after thorough examination of individual files, on a regular basis but not arbitrary basis, this was granted to alleviate a humanitarian emergency. What I find today is that these figures have increased tenfold. My group is outraged at the fact that, without any investigation into the urgent humanitarian or medical conditions, people have apparently been put on lists and obtained a visa through the cabinet to enter the territory. In addition, smugglers abuse a difficult situation to dispose of money from those involved. This is an unacceptable system which has undoubtedly been facilitated in the absence of research. The judicial investigation may indicate that without control and without individual investigation, the portal will be left open for abuse. When I hear Myria speaking, I have to say that, by using the procedure of the so-called rescue operation, which does not involve an individual examination of the file, family reunification is de facto carried out in situations which are unacceptable under our rules. This means that those who are not allowed to have family reunification are given a visa D. In fact, therefore, we have closed our borders legally and not abused the procedure for family reunification, which is strictly reserved for the nuclear family, but de facto we have opened the back door through the lists to illegal family reunifications. I've heard of Myria. Secondly, Mrs Lanjri has already mentioned that Mrs Smeyers asked Mr Van den Bulck to confirm that all asylum applications in our country are treated and examined in the same way. [[Mr Van den Bulck nods.]] That seems to me to be quite obvious, and you will confirm this later, and of course we expect it from an independent Commission. Another thing you said is that you only gave advice in the rescue operations of 244 Syrian Christians in 2015 and 37 people from Northern Syria, which I don't know anymore, and that no advice was even asked or given in any of the following cases. I don't know, you'll tell me later. In all the files that came through the cabinet, no advice has been asked or given by DVZ, if I have listened carefully. In other words, neither concrete nor theoretical research has been carried out into the humanitarian reasons for granting a visa. In this way, we are absolutely not sure that those who have received a visa have obtained a discretionary visa, although they have not obtained an arbitrary visa. That is a situation that we must avoid. I am in favour of granting a visa for humanitarian reasons, but this should not be done in a discretionary way and there should certainly not be any distinction between citizens who are in the same circumstances. Saying that family reunification is not possible for A and allowing them for B in the same circumstances is not correct, in my opinion. If I have listened carefully, this certainly seems to be the case in the "kabinet" system. Can any of you tell whether he or she knows how they ended up on the cabinet list? Can any of you confirm that family reunification could be requested de facto in the cabinet and that the cabinet had thus become almost a diplomatic post or an embassy? Did I understand that correctly or did I listen badly? I've been a member of the Naturalization Committee for a long time. Naturalisation is still a favour, but we as a committee and as a Parliament have never dealt with that favor arbitraryly. We had internal balancing criteria, not criteria to enforce, but internal balancing criteria. I cannot imagine that DVZ had no internal weighing criteria, in particular how one would assess individual dossiers. Do I have to imagine that this was made dependent on the individual file-handler, someone with a big or a small heart, someone who gets emotional quickly or not quickly? I can't imagine that. There must be a balance somewhere to determine whether or not a person is entitled to a humanitarian visa. Perhaps you could clarify that a little bit. I have one last question in the first round. Trafficking in human beings, smuggling in human beings, it's reached the press. All the actors in the field are working on this every day and undoubtedly deal with it very carefully. I can't imagine that none of you were informed. There must have been at least rumours or clues in certain files, for example the same systems that come back, peaks in statistics and so on. I have heard the Secretary of State many times explain that a human trafficking route from Palestine was very clearly set up. Figures and statistics have shown this. Did you notice in this regard that there were indications of human trafficking? How did you deal with that? Is or was there ever reported to the public prosecutor to start an investigation? I do not need to remind you of Article 29, which applies not only to officials but also to the bodies appointed. I'm sure the Secretary of State was one of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u16	I would also like to thank the speakers for the introduction. It is right that a number of answers should be given. The indignation about what has happened is still very great. A choice was made by the former Secretary of State to work in a certain way, with a number of intermediaries. That has opened the doors, we know now, for outright abuses and fraud, and also for large sums of money. I would like to reply immediately to the N-VA or Mrs Smeyers. The ultimate argument or the ultimate line of defense now seems: how else could these people be saved? First of all, it is the disgrace of the Francken system that we do not know whether they were vulnerable people. Or maybe it was just people who had the money to pay for a humanitarian visa? In any case, the UN is constantly working to bring vulnerable people to safety, directly from refugee camps in Turkey, Lebanon and so on. In 2015, there was also a rescue operation, in this case directly from Syria, but that was a government decision and framed. This was done effectively with intermediaries, but the Commissioner-General was involved. Then it was Christians who were also saved. That is quite different, colleagues of the N-VA, than working with friendly intermediaries, who then have the same party member card as yourself. So there is no reason and no valid excuse to work with these kind of shady constructions and roll out the red carpet for those intermediaries. Your former Secretary of State is, of course, politically responsible. There was indeed a debate in 2015 about a Parliament resolution to focus on religious minorities. It is true that you referred to the fact that my group, Ecolo-Green, did not wish to support that resolution. I would like to quote from the parliamentary report what I said three or four years ago. I said at the time that the text of the resolution on the protection of religious minorities was good in itself, but that there was a serious angel in it: 'This text actually gives priority to the resettlement of religious minorities, while resettlement should be about the vulnerability of political refugees and war refugees. We fear that this will give the government a clear lead to resettle only Christians, while the criterion should be vulnerability." I got it right. I believe that we went against the current with our group and rightly warned back in 2015 that the criterion of religion and "Christians in Syria" would be used effectively. One would do anything for that. We now know that it has effectively opened the door to abuse and fraud. Mr Roosemont, I would like to ask you a number of questions. Of the organisations that are present here today, DVZ is, as I understand it, the organisation that has participated in the carousel, which in the end, of course, this was not your intention to lead to abuse and fraud. Your administration needed the former Secretary of State to deliver the humanitarian visas. We know that lists were drawn up and delivered to the administration through friends, sometimes with a N-VA party card, with the friendly demand for a humanitarian visa to be issued quickly. Haven't you ever asked yourself any questions about Theo Francken's M.O.? Hasn't there ever been a meeting? The former Secretary of State, Mrs. Maggie De Block, worked quite differently. The Foreign Affairs Department noted that the working method under Theo Francken changed radically. Didn't you ever pull the alarm? Haven't you ever warned about the possible abuse? For me, that's incomprehensible. A comparison has been made with Rwanda and the adoption files. Whose lists did they come from? They did not come from the intermediaries who have since appeared in this file and apparently had to come to the cabinet to obtain a humanitarian visa. Mr Roosemont, Mr Van den Bulck, had you never heard of rumours of abuse and fraud in the year 2018? Secretary of State Theo Francken had known about these rumors twice, namely in October and in December 2018. In the meantime, we know he didn't actually do anything with those rumors. However, have you at any point known or heard rumors about possible carousels involving visa fraud and large sums of money that should be paid to intermediaries to obtain a humanitarian visa? Did you then take certain steps, perhaps in all discretion to the Secretary of State? However, my question is very clear. Then I have a question for the Foreign Office. Mr Roosemont, how is it that the people on the lists who were directly passed on to you by the cabinet have never been subject to precise checks on vulnerability? Apparently, it's just a security screening. You have also admitted that, in fact, vulnerability has not been properly controlled. Was there such a blind faith? How could you be sure that the humanitarian visas you have issued have indeed gone to vulnerable people? Is it not your administration's job to do such a check on vulnerability? In addition, we know that not everyone involved came directly from Syria. For a fairly large group of people that we are talking about in the carousel with that intermediary, they were actually people who got a humanitarian visa through Lebanon and Turkey. They are, to some extent, people who first brought themselves to safety through Lebanon and Turkey and then applied for a humanitarian visa. The argument that it would by definition be vulnerable people because it happened in Syria itself is therefore not well founded and is not correct. In the meantime, so do we. We have been given the list of the people, the intermediaries and the groups involved. You didn't run the vulnerability check, which is weird. Mrs Smeyers, you have tried to spin well here in committee at the beginning. After all, you have started by asking Mr Van den Bulck the question, and Mr Van den Bulck confirms it by nodding that the asylum application has gone through correctly and whether the same criteria have been applied to all of them, regardless of whether they were people who were on the lists or people who were not on the lists. Mr Van den Bulck has made a very good and loyal nodding that this has been done correctly. Mrs Smeyers, only the current committee meeting is not about asylum applications. The committee's meeting is about the right in advance, namely the way in which the humanitarian visas were delivered by your former Secretary of State. On this point, there has been a VIP treatment for people and names appearing on those lists and there has been a very different treatment for other people, who had to go directly to a consulate in, for example, Beirut, to apply for a humanitarian visa without intermediaries, who were not lucky enough to have such connections and for which a humanitarian visa was often refused. Remember the case from 2017 of the family. As Mrs van Cauter has just said, it should be noted that the asylum applications were not properly and objectively dealt with by the Commissioner-General. This is not the subject of the current discussion. The subject is abuse and fraud, on which you have, by the way, I would like to point out to all Members that during your speech you were silent in all the languages. Let us compare it with the United Nations method of pre-selection for resettlement. Mr Van den Bulck, that procedure was explained. You did. You have explained that in the pre-selection for resettlement, the United Nations selects on the basis of the need for protection and vulnerability, followed by a thorough investigation by the Commissioner-General, with often also a mission and investigation on the spot. Only then will a humanitarian visa be issued, so that the people concerned are practically able to come to our country. That's where we can do it. Let us try to combine the best of both worlds in the process of issuing humanitarian visas. I would like to say a little more about this later. So we need to think about how to prevent abuse. Mr Roosemont, the working method in the Theo Francken system was radically different from the working method in the Maggie De Block system. Maggie De Block said she's never worked with that kind of middlemen and she won't, now that she's back in charge, either. So that is a radically different way of working. Was there a difference in the role of the Foreign Office between Theo Francken and Maggie De Block? At the time of the Theo Francken system, you did not control vulnerability. Did you do a check on vulnerability at the time of the Maggie De Block system, when it wasn't working with such intermediaries? Then I have a question for the Foreign Office and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless about the infamous Facebook movie by Melikan Kucam, which distributes documents in the streets of Beirut. Did you know about that at any time? Did you see that video? Did that come with your services? Can you tell me more about that? Then I have a question for the Foreign Office. How is it that there are effectively no more detailed figures available on humanitarian visas? We have seen a number of figures. However, in the interests of transparency, we need to know on the basis of which elements a humanitarian visa is issued, when and when it is not. How is vulnerability interpreted? Is it true that under Theo Francken the criterion of vulnerability was not dominant but the criterion of religion? Members of Parliament therefore need more control over these considerations, on the criteria that play a part in the discretionary power that a State Secretary apparently has to issue humanitarian visas or not. Mr Roosemont, what could you do to achieve more transparency in this black box, which is the humanitarian visa? Are you able to keep up with more and more precise statistics, including statistics indicating whether or not the criterion of vulnerability is used in relation to other considerations that have been taken into account in the State Secretary's decisions? Then I have a question for the CGVS. You said, Mr Van den Bulck, that an opinion was given during the 2015 rescue operation, including on the basis of the fact sheets drawn up by the organisers themselves. So you were involved in that rescue operation, and then you didn't, so you said. For all other humanitarian visas and rescue operations issued, there was no longer any involvement of the CGVS. Why? Do you have any idea? Why was no advice sought from you for all the following rescue operations, which led to the abuse that we are now finding? Can you consider the question as to why that happened? Why was it possible for the rescue operation in 2015 and not now? In any case, in 2018 there is no reason not to work through official bodies such as the UN or recognised partners, NGOs, framed with protocols, more control and recognised intermediate organisations. This is the case with resettlement. I think we should somehow be able to combine the two systems. Mr Roosemont, do you know how Mr Francken handled humanitarian visas on request in a Belgian embassy? Do you know whether it was also in the interests of the applicants to have direct connections with intermediaries or with certain cabinet employees? Do you have any figures on the refusal of humanitarian visas? The figures on the granting of humanitarian visas are very interesting, but how often was such a visa refused and on what basis? If we want more transparency, it is logical that this too should be clarified. With regard to the Commissioner-General, the question remains open as to what has actually happened to the people who could come to Belgium with a humanitarian visa. Each of those people applied for asylum here? I have the impression that there is no record of this. Do we know what has happened to the people who have been granted a stay in our country on the basis of a humanitarian visa? To what extent was a permanent stay possible, purely on the basis of obtaining a humanitarian visa? If, in certain cases, it was not necessary to apply for asylum or to obtain a favourable response on the basis of an asylum application, then a humanitarian visa actually meant an admission ticket for a permanent stay in our country. This may also explain the high prices circulating in the delivery of such a humanitarian visa. My next question is addressed to the Commission's general. We know that resettlement has many assets and benefits. A humanitarian visa in itself can be a useful additional channel, especially for individual applications. Is there any possibility of combining the best of those two worlds in one way or another? I would also like to ask Myria whether there is a need for a legislative proposal for this. I would also ask you to comment on a number of chalk lines that might be relevant in such a legislative proposal. Could it be useful to retain the discretion of the Secretary of State, but to work with a tighter framework, in which the Secretary of State must take into account criteria such as vulnerability in his consideration? We can somewhat define and define this by referring to articles from international treaties. In such a legislative proposal, we can spell out that we can only work with certain intermediate organisations, such as the United Nations or recognised NGOs. The legislative proposal can instruct the government to draw up protocols and define framework agreements, so that selection on the ground can also be very practical. We also think it is appropriate to include parliamentary control in a legislative proposal. The government must submit at least an annual report to Parliament which provides transparency on the way in which decisions are taken to obtain humanitarian visas. We need to get rid of that black box, the twilight zone that is the humanitarian visa, and we need to get our hands on it in order to get legislative changes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u17	Mrs Smeyers, you wanted to speak again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u18	Madam President, I would like to respond very briefly to what I call a personal fact. If Mr De Vriendt is insinuating that I would tolerate that these possible malpractices have happened because I have not spoken with a single word about this possible fraud, then I would like to put that out of the way. That judicial investigation is under way, and I would like to emphasise the following very strongly: if Melikan Kucam had been guilty of personal enrichment by saving Christians from Syria by issuing humanitarian visas, I hope he would receive the appropriate sanction, then he should be condemned for that. Mr De Vriendt, just after the news of this possible fraud came out, I was the first to say that we must be critical enough, that we owe it to ourselves to take certain abuses out of that system. This does not mean that we should throw away the baby with the bath water, but that we should be sufficiently critical of ourselves and ask ourselves questions about a certain naivety or a certain confidence that the Secretary of State has placed in certain people. Mr De Vriendt, I have said this from the beginning. However, I do not tolerate your insinuation that I would tolerate such malpractice being possible. I won't stand for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u19	I feel compelled to intervene. The system of personal fact does not apply to committees. You have now said that you are trying to be just and correct. We expect nothing less. Mr De Vriendt, bearing in mind the speakers, I would like the questions to be put to the vote first, and then you can respond to Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u20	Madam Chair, many issues have already been raised. I also thank the five speakers from the three organizations we hear this afternoon, who are trying to shed some light on how visas are issued. First of all, I too would like to react to the comments that have just been partially corrected by Mrs Smeyers, because I was particularly shocked by those comments. Mrs Smeyers is trying to cover a heinous trafficking in human beings, with extortion of funds to people who are particularly vulnerable, by presenting it as a humanitarian operation. It also seems to be based on a resolution by Parliament. It has misread this resolution, since this resolution deals first and foremost with the protection of minorities on the spot and resettlement. There is no question of resettlement here at all, as it is about people who are subject to humanitarian visas while they are still in Syria. Mrs Smeyers, I can only disapprove of the way in which you are using a Parliament resolution that absolutely does not say what you have just talked about. You're draping yourself today in a humanitarian fervour that we haven't known much about on the part of the N-VA. I will read you a message that I received from the representative of the European Syriacs in October. I know him well because I went to Syria. I went to meet these communities who are subjected to specific abuses and violence. "Hello, Georges. They bring Syriacs systematically from Syria here in Belgium. And that's not good for us, for Syriacs. Do you know how to do something about it? I think behind all this, there's Theo Francken." This alert is already launched in October. The Syriac community wishes to be protected on site. The action of your government, and in particular your Minister of Defence, on the spot, was to withdraw the special forces present to protect the local population, and especially the Christian communities. What this Syriac community is asking is to be protected from the wills, especially Turkish, of invasion of northern Syria, where it is today. This should be done as a matter of priority. You don't, Mrs. Smeyers. I find this humanitarian smoke screen particularly shocking in the face of an operation that is anything but humanitarian, since it is about choosing people based on their ability to contribute. Having said that, what strikes me in today's speeches is that it is a scathing request, although a little nuanced by the Office of Foreigners, much clearer in Mr. Van den Bulck, and very strong from Myria, on the way things are going today. We are told that this is happening in opacity, and that the organizations that should have been involved are not, whether it is the Office of Foreigners, the CGRA or the competent and professional international organizations. Mr. Van den Bulck stressed that organizations such as UNHCR should be systematically surrounded. That is why he is advocating resettlement. Organizations that have specific expertise in this area can be found around each other. With regard to the opacity of the system, I would like to join my colleagues. We cannot now be told how many humanitarian visas are concerned with resettlement, how many are concerned with rescue operations and how many are concerned with normal procedures. I'm surprised. We need to rely in part on indirect information, and we still do not have some information. I also note that the so-called normal procedure is by far the most complicated. Consideration should be given to whether and how this normal procedure should be eased. With regard to Syrian cases, and to return to today's debate, in only 9% of cases a prior agreement of the Office of Foreigners has taken place. I made a quick rule of three. With regard to other nationalities, the consent of the Office of Foreigners was sought in 92 per cent of cases for humanitarian visas. I took Myria's picture and made a rule of three: 9% for Syrians, who are largely majority, and 92% for other nationalities. I would like to address this question to the Foreign Office. In the face of such important figures, the following question may be asked. You have indeed contributed, in particular administratively, to issuing these visas. Did you not ask yourself whether this procedure was normal? Is it normal and legitimate? The famous case of the humanitarian corridor of 2015 in Aleppo was also mentioned. This situation is completely different. My colleagues have reminded us of this in terms of procedures. CGRA, the Office of Foreigners and the Sant'Egidio organization are involved. And we are above all – we have not recalled it – in the midst of war, in a terrible humanitarian situation where it is a matter of saving human lives. I remind you that Rakka fell in October 2017, Mosul in June 2017. We're no longer in a humanitarian emergency at all. Where is the humanitarian emergency? As international organizations say, she is in refugee camps; she is not in Syria. People in refugee camps are imploring for and not receiving humanitarian visas. We have many testimonies from people on the road to exile, who are seeking a humanitarian visa. While the channels around Theo Francken are organized, these people do not receive a humanitarian visa. They do not even receive the support they demand to return home to rebuild their lives. These people have been in the camps for seven or eight years and no longer have any means; they are in total vulnerability. Again, a situation that dates back to 2015, which is not open to discussion in terms of urgency or procedures, but it is said that no rescue operation will be carried out. If: one can still allow rescue operations, but provided that they are supervised and that they are not facts of the prince. What struck me too – and I would have liked to have a comment from Myria on this – is that the peak of Syrian visas granted by the Francken firm without prior permission from the Office of Foreigners (page 4 of the document transmitted by Myria) took place in September 2018. Doesn't that mean anything to you? We're in the middle of an election campaign... For the organisations present here, was there not an alert to be issued? Did you mention this point in your regular discussions with the Secretary of State? The Secretary of State himself indicates that he has been aware since October. I wish I knew if you yourself had been alerted, if you had heard of Melikan Kucam or other names or other channels? Have the money issues, in particular, been brought to your attention? Had any complaints been made to you? Have any alerts been issued in this regard? If so, have any complaints been dealt with? Another question arises about the Office of Foreigners, which has been involved administratively. Mr. Roosemont, you made it very clear that you did not participate in the development of the visa lists, since they were submitted to you and then sent to the diplomatic posts. I inquired about this and learned that our diplomatic post in Beirut had received a document from the Foreign Office. Melikan Kucam was presented there as the person in charge of supervising, last September – a few weeks before the communal elections – a group that had just obtained a humanitarian visa. This means that this person had a mission order or, in any case, an official introduction. I don't know if you can confirm that. How does this usually happen? I imagine the Secretary of State's instructions were sent to you by e-mail. Secondly, was the granting of visas justified? I would like to point out that the 1991 Act provides for the obligation to give formal reasons for administrative acts. Was that the case? What is the nature of your role at the Office between the Office of the Secretary of State and diplomatic representations in the various countries concerned? I would like to recall that, like others, I am obviously very attached to the international protection instrument of the humanitarian visa. The Nansen passport was created in 1922. I do not believe that a heavy bureaucracy should be set up in order to grant these humanitarian visas. In my view, it can be left to the discretion of the Secretary of State in charge, but he must be able to come and explain himself to Parliament. I am pleased that François De Smet suggested that a report be presented to Parliament, as we had called for in a bill that we had tabled. I believe that it is important not to overburden the system upstream and to be able to control it downstream. Vulnerability criteria must be used, but they are probably not the only ones. It was said that this humanitarian visa could be used in a variety of exceptional situations. I think it would be good if we could implement this. Mr. Roosemont, you said that it was not uncommon for lists to be used. You still had to do a little archaeology to find them since it is Rwanda – 25 years ago – and Haiti. This shows that the issue of lists is not a usual way of proceeding. The question here is less the problem of the list than of intermediaries, who are not professional, who have no other status than that of being an agent of the N-VA. Did you know that these lists were drafted and proposed by these intermediaries? In general, should not individual applications be given priority? There are many calls for help that come to us, but these individual calls are very unlikely to succeed. The system is dysfunctional in terms of calls for help that should be better heard and lists and channels should certainly be better supervised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u21	Madam President, a parliament is a very peculiar institution. What have we seen of Mr Francken today? He got here, turned the cameras on, took a picture with Mrs. Smeyers, and he left. What's he doing in the meantime? Colleagues, you all know the answer. He's on Twitter and he's commenting on what's going on in committee. Mr Francken tweeted about Mrs Van Cauter: "Tiens, has Carina become a migration specialist?" That was 20 minutes ago. Then a smiley face followed with the eyes in the sky. Theo, come tweet here. You can do that here, here's the Internet, come here! Mr Francken asks a number of questions on Twitter. I shall, of course, be happy to answer that. He asks Mrs Van Cauter, who will allow me to reply to this question about family reunification and humanitarian visas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u23	No, Mrs. Van Cauter, you didn't tweet. It's Theo Francken that tweet, and I'm reading that tweet. What does that have to do with each other, Mr Francken asks. It's very simple. Mrs Wouters and I wrote it in September 2018, when the superbook was published about everything about migration, except the Franckenpact/Marrakeshpact. We wrote at that time that humanitarian visas are indeed being used to circumvent the criteria of family reunification, which are intertwined. Our source for this was Myria's report of 2017. That's weird, isn't it? Furthermore, Mr Francken sometimes tweetes right things. For example, he says: "I haven't heard the VLD squeak about my policy for four and a half years." That was 21 minutes ago, that's right. After I have helped Mr Francken with some pleasure, I will go to the substance of the matter. As far as Mr Francken's behaviour is concerned, I honestly believe that he is in the process of being a clown by making a fool of himself in this matter. I would also like to emphasise what is not at all about a number of things that Mrs Smeyers has said. Were those people in distress? That's not in question at all. Unfortunately, there are many people in need on this planet, also in places other than Syria. This is not about the judicial investigation either. We have the court and judges for that. They're working on it. They'll end this. Were people saved? No one disputes this, but it's been the N-VA's defense line for the last few days. "We saved people!" No one says they didn't save people. That's easy as a line of defense. What it is about is the procedure. There are actually two procedures for similar cases, in particular the DVZ procedure and rescue operations or the Francken procedure. However, I do not call the Francking procedure a procedure. That is not a procedure, because there are no rules of the game. It's just a black box and at some point lists come out of it. No one really knows where those lists came from. DVZ says they weren't involved, except for the security screening. Nor does the Commissioner-General claim to have been involved, unless the procedure is limited. Parliament, despite the fact that several colleagues from various parties have asked questions here, was not involved either. One could think of a procedure whereby, in one way or another, a committee in Parliament is held accountable. But even that was too much for the Secretary of State. Answers to parliamentary questions did not happen. It was his arbitrary jurisdiction. It's a jurisdiction without rules. There is the black box of Francken that at some point all kinds of lists come out. I got the explanation right. Mr. Roosemont says he got lists. In fact, these were orders from the Cabinet to issue visas to certain persons. In view of your status, Mr Roosemont, you must do so at that time. It is said that Mr Van den Bulck did not get it. All asylum applications have been treated according to the same criteria. In view of the statute of the Commissioner-General, you cannot be given orders, Mr Van den Bulck. You're independent. You don't have to go into that. If you had not dealt with all applications in the same way, you would have done your job very badly. You say you did your job well and that no one had orders to give you. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the very different status of Mr Roosemont and Mr Van den Bulck. They were in a different relationship to Mr Francken. I am not blaming anyone, but they were obliged to respond in a different way to Mr Francken's questions. Mr Roosemont, it is well known that you had regular meetings in the Francken cabinet. There's nothing abnormal about that. I do not know if this is true, but I read in the media a while ago, Mr Van den Bulck, that you also sometimes or perhaps always participated in those meetings. You will confirm or deny that. I'd like to ask you both the following questions. I refer to the peculiarity of the procedure and the figures of Mrs De Block and Mr Francken, who are very radically different. For Mrs De Block there were 208 in 2014 and for Mr Francken there were 2 361 in his record year 2017. That is a very spectacular increase. A lot of people noticed that rise. It was difficult to look aside, because the Secretary of State tweeted very regularly on these matters too. Everyone was supposed to be aware of that. Are there or are there not criteria for humanitarian visas? Where's that rise coming from? What is the explanation for that policy? On what basis do we judge? On what basis do some people get a visa through intermediaries and others do not? Has there ever been any talk or any questions about the intermediaries? Who are they? On what criteria were they selected? Did a selection happen? If so, on the basis of what criteria? My questions are therefore very broad. I am not just asking you whether you have drawn the attention of the Secretary of State to this at some point in time. My question is wider. Did you know that these matters were discussed in another way in the Secretary of State's office? Since I was in Parliament, I can imagine a lot, but I cannot imagine that two immense specialists on migration, Mr Van den Bulck of the Commissioner-General and Mr Roosemont of DVZ, who are working on this daily and know the subject very well, did not find it strange in some way that suddenly there is a complete shift in policy, without too much accountability. There is no accountability and no one is actually involved, not even in the choice of intermediaries, apparently. It is no secret that I sometimes disagree with the conclusions of Myria, which happens regularly, but I always find the reports very interesting because of the way in which people collect highly professional figures. I find it strange that even Myria, who is always expert, should now refer to a tweet by Theo Francken, the Secretary of State, to know who the intermediaries are. It is beginning to be somewhat laughable: to be accountable in Parliament, it is not; to give the names in Parliament, it is not; to tweeting is done; to be present here in committee, it is not done, but to comment on the committee on Twitter, it is done. It's starting to get a little weird. So far my questions and remarks, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u24	Madam President, I thank the various speakers for their comments, which confirm what was already supposed of Franken's policy, namely that it is based on discrimination and the absence of clear criteria. The system is clearly based on nepotism and clientelism. You don't get a visa on the basis of an objective situation, but because you know someone, for example from the N-VA, who eventually touches pots of wine for that. We can see that Secretary of State Franken has granted far more visas than his predecessors. Between 2011 and 2014, there are 200 or 300 humanitarian visas per year; in 2015, there are 844, then 1,182, 2,361, 2,174 in 2018. Is this about objective situations or a deliberate policy on the part of the Secretary of State? Has Théo Francken failed to be vigilant in promoting the model of the humanitarian visa, which is not transparent and manifestly arbitrary? Minister Maggie De Block announced a review of the conditions for granting humanitarian visas. Will the system that it will now use be based on objective criteria or will it simply delete the list system used by its predecessor? Can it be said that no objective criteria have been applied to choose one person rather than another in the Theo Francken system? In other words, is it certain that those most in need of a humanitarian visa obtained it? You mentioned Rwanda in 1994 and Haiti in 2010 to explain that lists had also been drawn up at those times. How did this system work then? Were these lists provided by individuals or through recognized organizations? Were individuals agents of a party that was the minister in charge of Asylum and Migration? In relation to the rumours that Mr Franken has heard, according to his own statements, have you also heard rumours about malfeasances about humanitarian visas? With regard to the absence or presence of UNHCR, a line of defence was heard saying that UNHCR was not present, which could justify going through these lists made by a few people and visibly persons who were not able a priori to draw them up. I can assume that indeed in Aleppo, during the rescue operation in 2015, UNHCR was not present, but it would involve a rather small number of people (about 250 people at that time). But what of the following years since obviously it lasted until October 2018? Was UNHCR absent during all those years? If he was present, was his expertise not preferable to a system that obviously favoured lists based on pass-rights? Was there pressure from Franken to deal more quickly with asylum applications for cases for which these humanitarian visas were based on lists? Mr. Roosemont, with respect to the investigation requested by Minister De Block at the Foreign Office, have you provided any information that should be verified? Has she asked for a simple investigation or is her request specific and specific? My last question is about graphs presented by Myria. I am thinking in particular of the one which shows the five main nationalities that have obtained humanitarian visas. For Syria, 91% of visas are applied for, not through the traditional procedure via the Foreign Office, but are issued by the diplomatic post. There are virtually no, if at all, such cases for Afghanistan, Somalia and Iraq. How do you explain this difference? Why is what is true for Syria not true for other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u25	I'd like to ask my questions right now. Can Mr Pivin replace me as chairman or may I ask my questions from the chair? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u26	People were asked several times here if people were saved. Of course, people were saved and no one intended to question rescue operations. Here, however, it is harsh, because we have often asked to save people, and we have been put in the corner of the soft people who want to open the borders. That is not the case. Many of us are in favour of a strict but above all fair asylum policy. I fully endorse Mr Vuye's comments on everything related to Twitter behaviour. I often have the impression that we here in Parliament are trying to work hard but that it is better to put it in the newspaper the day before or to distribute it on Twitter itself at the moment. They'll get a lot more attention. Thirdly, we must not throw away the child, the humanitarian visa procedure, with the bath water. I said that in plenary two weeks ago. However, the quality of this procedure is very closely linked to the integrity and wisdom of the politician she must use. It must remain an exceptional procedure. One cannot foresee everything, because the world is constantly changing, but one must have a person who deals with that procedure in a balanced manner. We need to see how we can guarantee that. The political parties must think about this. As far as the resolution is concerned, it is true that Fatma Pehlivan and I abstained from the vote. I do not want to play party politics here, but there was a very specific question at the time as to whether this was only about Christians. If I am not mistaken, Peter Luykx was the author of this resolution. He replied at that time that it was certainly not only a matter of priority for Christians, but actually a lot of minorities. I abstained at that time because I know that in the Muslim world atheists are also often endorsed. One cannot even imagine what an atheist is there. That group of people was not included in the resolution. In practice, I find that only Christians are spoken of. For the record, I have nothing against Christians. But I do have a heart for a balanced view of reality and for just systems for different groups of people. Fourthly, all systems and procedures can derail. That's just reality. This must always be taken into account as a good driver. To avoid this, one can work preventively by developing closing procedures and controls, but one can also use ex post audit systems and reporting. We are talking about reporting that offers transparency, but which can also show, on the basis of figures, certain trends that can be questioned. The humanitarian visa procedure has also been applied in the past with the result that such visas have been issued. But that number has increased enormously since 2015. Either the procedure, as it is used so often, is no longer exclusive, and therefore an additional instrument must be created. Either there should be a question mark on the procedure used. Have any questions ever been asked about that? Has there ever been an answer to that? Moreover, some committee members have often asked questions about this, but they have never had a look at the figures. For the record, I can imagine a lot about the situation in Aleppo in 2015, but probably not everything. In 2017 and 2018, the situation changed in a number of countries, not to mention Syria. The interpretation of the terms exceptional procedure, need, vulnerability, may differ. Mr Roosemont, I almost fell off my chair when you said that some people do not even have a passport and that some sort of laissez pass must be created; it is, but I have heard in many files that people who did not have a passport were accused of fraud. Their file could not be completed, so they did not receive a visa. There is, of course, always a moving insight into this. My question is also whether all the people who have now received a humanitarian visa were vulnerable. Who got a humanitarian visa? Who applied for asylum after that? Who got a residence permit? Who's gone? Who didn't? Who's been through? I hear some people have traveled to Sweden. However, one of the criteria for a humanitarian visa was a link with Belgium, with family members here. How can one rhyme with one another? What also disturbs me in the context of the international context? I have raised the issue of refugee camps with a number of committee members on a number of occasions. We have often said that migration policy must be based on international agreements. We have often said that Europe should draw up a better migration policy. They have tried to do so. Member States have even made agreements among themselves with regard to resolution. However, many European agreements were not complied with by the Member States, which called into question the agreed policy. The vulnerable people who have the most right to a resolution do not get that. Finally, there is no sustainable asylum policy. My questions are as follows. Firstly, DVZ claims that only a security check was carried out with regard to the control of the files, file by file. However, did DVZ never carry out a substantive check, namely on vulnerability, and a check against the different criteria? Has there been a difference in the role DVZ played in the Aleppo rescue operation in 2015 and in the files afterwards? Have you been more involved with Aleppo 2015 than with the files afterwards? Secondly, who actually signed the decision to issue humanitarian visas? Was that the Secretary of State himself? Was that DVZ or DVZ together with the Secretary of State or maybe someone else? Thirdly, since when do you think the system of intermediaries exists? Was that also the case during the previous legislature? If that existed then, was DVZ involved or not involved? If DVZ was involved, how was the service involved? Are you starting an internal investigation today or when will you start an investigation? Based on what? Is that because of the abuses that have been reported? When will the possible investigation be completed? At DVZ, did stories of possible abuses in the system circulate through intermediaries or elsewhere? Since when did they circulate? Does Myria know about abuses? How did you react to that? Until exactly when were humanitarian visas issued through the system of so-called intermediaries and through the Mechelen system in particular? An agreement was reached with Sant' Egidio on the modalities of selection and follow-up. Has this also happened to the other organisations that have been involved, for example the Mechelen network? Why didn't that happen? If Sant' Egidio had some sort of model agreement, why wasn't it systematically used, including in the other intermediate organizations? What do you know about the cooperation with the State Department? I understand that there was very strong cooperation with foreign embassies before the Aleppo operation, not directly in the role of humanitarian visa issuer. Is it true that when a diplomatic post issues a visa, the diplomat or consul does not act as a representative of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but as a representative of the Minister of the Interior and his Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? So when they issue visas themselves. Then about the cost of the visa application. That's 180 euros for underage applicants, plus an administrative contribution of 350 euros per person. That's a lot of expense. Who paid for that? Did individuals pay for it or did the intermediaries pay for it? How was that deposited? Do you have an account number for that at DVZ? Could that be an indication that it wasn't actually about individuals, but about a group, or a person who apparently took care of financial affairs? How many humanitarian visas, in addition to those of Sant' Egidio and the resettlements, have been issued through the so-called system of intermediaries since the beginning of this legislature? Can you give that to me by network? The people who have come through Sant' Egidio have all started an asylum procedure in order to obtain recognition. I have already asked, but through the Panoreportage and the press we hear that a number of people have already left abroad. I come to my final question for the Foreign Office. For years, you have produced extensive annual reports, often with a lot of figures, and at the time you also put a lot of information on the website, including on humanitarian visas. However, in recent years, reporting has been very limited. Can you draw up the annual report again in a comprehensive way, as in the past? I now come to my questions to the Commissioner-General. I have already asked to what extent you are communicating with each other about who is applying for asylum or starting an asylum procedure. We have seen that the files came directly to the cabinet via intermediaries and that the decision was taken in the cabinet, after which the list was passed on to the Foreign Office. Is it conceivable in the future that the Commissioner will give an indicative opinion beforehand, or is there any other way of cooperating to support this in view of the vulnerability of individuals who come to our country exceptionally through a humanitarian visa? A completely closed system may not be possible, but more guarantees may be created. For Myria, too, I have a few questions. Do you have any idea who, among the people who came through the Mechels network, may have already moved to other countries? Does Myria know whether, through intermediaries, people were exempted from administrative contributions? Which intermediaries could possibly provide for this? Which foreign best practices exist? What possibilities does the Canadian system offer, where private settlements through accredited organisations and a transparent selection procedure can be regulated within a certain quota? Is such a system possible in our country, possibly via the embassies, so that people do not have to follow dangerous roads to get here? What about the difficulty, cost and chances of success of starting a file at the embassies? Finally, I would like to ask a question. There is a rumor that the intermediaries, some seven, would have met in a platform. There would have been a distribution of the number of people or files that could be started. Does anyone have eyes on that, or has anyone heard anything about it? It would have been a platform of mainly religious organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u27	Madam Chair, I will be brief because there are enough questions that have already been asked of our guests. Nevertheless, I would like to go back to a few points. With the outbreak of this scandal, we were given a daily flow of information via Mr Franken's social networks and tweets. I would like to take this opportunity to thank our guests who have provided some answers. But they also raised other issues. Many questions remain open; not all can be answered today. I am thinking in particular of the intervention of Mr Franken and his cabinet, but also of their relations with the two institutions, the Foreign Office and the CGRA. There is another point that seems to me "bright" and totally incomprehensible. I want to talk about the many confusions that remain with regard to the figures. The latter are totally unacceptable and have led Myria to perform an ant work as an investigator. Our committee must therefore continue to address this issue. Indeed, it is not logical that we should not know on the basis of what figures and what information we are working on. The aim of Ecolo-Groen is, of course, to understand how such trafficking to the detriment of vulnerable people could have taken place, to establish the facts in parallel and in addition to the work done by the justice system, to circumscribe the political responsibility of Mr Franken, and even of the MicheI government as a whole. Indeed, one may wonder why, in four and a half years of the legislature, the Minister of the Interior, also a member of the N-VA, or the whole government has never considered this issue. Our goal is, last but not least, to act legislatively so that this can no longer happen again. I hear there are some other political wills that would like us to move forward on a bill. Our group has tabled a text and I look forward to the idea that, with shared political will, we will be able to complete a text during this somewhat special period of day-to-day business. Indeed, even though the figures remain somewhat unclear, they show a clear increase in the number of humanitarian visas issued during this legislature. Mr Roosemont, Mr Van den Bulck, during this parliamentary term, have you been asked to comment, at the request of the cabinet, Mr Franken or the government, on the tool of humanitarian visas? Have you been asked to evaluate the use of the humanitarian visa procedure? Were you asked why it was increasing and to what extent it was asking new questions or responding to a new need? In general, did Mr. Franken come to you to seek an opinion, an evaluation? If so, what was your answer? Could this committee possibly take notice of any opinion you have given? The precise role of the Foreign Office remains, for me, somewhat obscure in the granting of these humanitarian visas via Mr Franken's lists. In particular, by means of the press, the Office of Foreigners would – I say "would" – have referred to the fact that "refugees on the lists from the cabinet were less well controlled as to the criterion of vulnerability". Do you confirm that? If so, why were they less well-screened? Have you received any instructions from the firm to do so? If so, when and from whom did these instructions come? Mr Roosemont, if I understood correctly, you intervened in 2015 in the case of the 244 Syrians from Aleppo and the rescue procedure. In this context, a procedure was developed in consultation with the firm. Is that to say that before, there was no procedure? How specific was the procedure initiated by Mr Franken in consultation with you? Do you think that this new procedure has been able to intervene in the drifts observed later and which bring us together today in this committee? Mr Roosemont, as I understand it, after this case of the Syrians in Aleppo, you have been excluded from any opinion or intervention in the granting of humanitarian visas from the lists of Mr Franken's cabinet. How do you appreciate this spacing? Does that make sense to you? Do you have an opinion on this? Mr Van den Bulck, if I have understood correctly, a legal opinion in 2015 or a very short opinion was asked about the very possibility of issuing more humanitarian visas, in particular on the basis of experiences in other countries, namely France and Germany. In this context, you have given an opinion on the criteria for granting. Could this parliamentary committee have that opinion? Whether it is legal or not, you will explain to me the nature of this opinion. I find it interesting to have this exhibit which, at the beginning of Mr Franken's term of office, gives an update on this procedure. A question has already been raised by all members of this Commission and is addressed to the Office of Foreigners and CGRA. Have you been informed of the rumours about Mr. Kucam's more than disturbing actions? If so, how have you been informed of these rumours? When? Did you react to what you heard? Who was the Foreign Office in contact with at the firm? Who were you receiving the lists from? How exactly did you treat them? Another question that has already been raised by my colleagues: have all these people who have arrived in Belgium applied for asylum? Have they applied for asylum? Are they still in Belgium? Are they parties to other Member States or countries? What are the specific data on this subject? Finally, I will conclude with two smaller, more specific questions for Myria. I thank this centre for its investigative work. In the exercise of your duties, you have the opportunity to take civil action in cases involving trafficking in human beings. Do you intend to activate this faculty? This would allow you to have access to the investigation file. If you do not intend to do so, what is the reason? I would also like to hear from you about the legislative proposals that are under way on the one hand on the side of the CDH with my colleague Dallemagne and on the other hand on the side of Ecolo-Groen with Mr Wouter De Vriendt and myself. Do you believe that parliamentary scrutiny, the end of individual intermediaries and the work with NGOs and associations that would be accredited by the government are interesting avenues that deserve to be followed? In conclusion, even today, without knowing whether men or women have been unfairly paid in this visa trade, I believe that it remains totally unacceptable that favouritism and clientelism should interfere in this visa procedure for highly vulnerable people. The work of this committee and of Parliament must absolutely prevent this from happening again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u28	The time has come to give the floor to the speakers for their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u29	Mr President, I have received by far the most questions, so I thought I could begin. Mrs Smeyers, you asked if there was an alternative to the Aleppo procedure. No. I was there myself. I have seen the first two meetings with Mr Geelyn and other members of a number of organisations who stood up for those people. We have thought about how this should be done. It had to be quick. It wasn't supposed to be expensive, complex and complicated surgery. Myria's colleagues described this as normal requests through the Beirut Consulate. It had to be quick and efficient. People were in the front line. Every day we saw TV images of destroyed houses and neighborhoods. There was therefore no other option at that time than to work with those lists. The name lists were given a name by the cabinet. I'm just saying, list-Roosemont, list-X or list-Y. DVZ had no idea at any time where the names came from, from the intermediaries. These intermediaries have often been mentioned here. One could suspect, since the Secretary of State made no secret of it, that it was about people from Syria with a Christian background. The Syrian churches in Belgium and the Netherlands played an important role in this. We have not been informed of this and, frankly, we have not asked for it. Did we know anything about the rumors about these possible malpractices and the payments to get on such a list? Absolutely not! I've never heard such a rumor. I suppose that is also true of my colleagues, because otherwise they would probably have come to me to report it. In our business, rumors often go fast, but frankly we haven't heard anything about that at all. The DVZ procedure of the individual application and the humanitarian aspects of that application are often discussed here. Of course it is about humanitarian aspects. I will end up with Mrs Van Cauter. In a number of cases, there is a slight extension of the rules on family reunification. I am thinking of a grown-up child, the grandparents or a live-in child who has not turned out to be a family, but has been living with them for 15 years. These are also humanitarian aspects for me. At least they're human. Are those people who had to flee immediately because the bombs were flying around their heads? No! Humanitarianism is present at a different level. Is that a bypass of the rules on family reunification? For one thing, it is, because family reunification is strict and, in the application of Article 10 or Article 40 to family reunification, we will be much stricter than in Article 9 cases. Of course, there is a great deal of control over our decisions. All our negative decisions must be able to withstand an appeal to the Council of Foreigners' Disputes. If we know in advance that we will not get a negative decision after all, we would rather look ahead and allow permission to stay on the basis of Article 9. That's most of the cases that come to us. Most spontaneous applications come from people who are already in refugee camps or are somewhere safe. It could also be people who are trying to defuse their situation in Iraq, Afghanistan or Syria through extensive family reunification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u30	Where do the numbers come from? As I said in my introduction, it comes from the foreign affairs database. It's the consuls themselves who bring in the data. We don't have an absolute database. No one has any. We work with an electronic file, but that is not a database in which everyone is included. For us, the database in which everyone is included is the National Register, the Foreign Register or the Population Register, but for people who are not yet in Belgium, who are still on their way, there is no such database. I have said from the beginning that we, in an individual application, are talking about the 'different' group. These are people who do not come in for studies, family reunification or work. Mr Pivin has quite rightly made the same reasoning for Articles 9a and 9b. Article 9b concerns the stay for medical reasons, Article 9a refers to the stay for other reasons. It is known as humanitarian reasons, but in fact it is an ordinary authorisation to stay. The place of application is not a diplomatic post; the application is made through the mayor. Myria works with the same numbers as us. They will probably have the capacity and the staff to run them much more precisely than we do. With us, most of the attention goes to dealing with applications. We've got plenty of work to do. We cannot make the same detailed analyses as Myria. That's why they're here. It's one of their tasks. We don't put anything away for Myria. We regularly discuss all kinds of figures: asylum, return and regularisation, both 9a and 9b. What we have, so does Myria. Myria probably uses that for other purposes than us. How do short-stay visas work? About 200 000 visas are issued each year. Of these, 75% is given on its own initiative, without the intervention of DVZ. The Foreign Office can say yes, if the file is good, but cannot say no. All files on which the department has doubts are sent to Brussels. That's forty-five to fifty thousand a year. We look at them individually. We analyse them and ask for additional information from reference persons in Belgium. Of those 50 000, we will generally refuse two thirds, often on the basis of the negative opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and allow a third. The State Department can agree, but it can't refuse. Refuse belongs to us. We are therefore somewhat the bogeyman in that respect. If a foreign official, consul or visa officer issues a visa, this will be done in accordance with the law of 15 December 1980, under the authority of the Secretary of State or Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration. There are, of course, agreements with the State Department. For certain groups, however, we are asking for a systematic referral to Brussels, for others we absolutely do not need it. This applies not only to short-stay visas, but also to long-stay visas. It is simply impossible to deal with the 200 000 applications for short-stay visas and the 20 to 30 000 applications for long-stay visas here in Brussels. The various group is also the reason why we only have 74 Syrians in the 210 allowed visas for 2018. It is a diverse group: 74 Syrians, 39 Iraqis, 27 Afghans and the rest are other nationalities who have used the procedure. The length of the procedure is partly correct. It takes too long to please everyone, but one has to have means to do so very quickly. It is also correct that it is often a residual group. I doubt that it is expensive, because only the administrative burden, the visa fee, the translations of some documents and the right to roll have to be paid. But most procedures, including those in Belgium, have a similar cost. How did people used to work with lists? If I am not mistaken, in 1994, at the time of the genocide in Rwanda, lists of people who had family in Belgium and had to be rescued and evacuated, even through flights from the Belgian army, were also delivered to Mr Tobback's cabinet. The other example I mentioned dates back to 2010 and relates to adoptive children after the earthquake in Haiti. Then a list was provided by Child and Family to the cabinet of Melchior Wathelet, the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. So, if it has to go fast, if it's a very far-reaching procedure, lists are the only option. Several times we were asked what we are doing with these files and what Mrs De Block has asked us to do. Right now, we're copying all the files for the Antwerp police. Mrs. De Block mostly wants to know what happened to all these people. Have they arrived? That is a question that has been asked here several times. Did they apply for asylum or did they just go to the city? Did they stay in Belgium? She would like an answer to that. That is not a small job, it is a work that will take several weeks. But that question seems justified to me. We are fully engaged in this and we hope to have clarity in it as soon as possible. Mrs Lanjri, you are in favour of an intervention by the Advisory Committee on Foreigners in each individual application for a humanitarian visa. To be honest, I think we'd do overkill. That is impossible and not appropriate. We work on the basis of the recommendation and notification of the Minister or Secretary of State. We do the individual approach to the dossiers; he does not, that is correct, but we do cooperate broadly with the Secretary of State. That was not only the case with Mr Francken, Mrs De Block is now the case and Mrs De Block used to be the case. To submit all this to the Commission seems to me to be far too complex. This means that there must also be a representative or a lawyer. There may then be five or six cases per session, while there are one or two sessions per month. That seems too complex to me. I have already mentioned the extensive family reunification. Mrs. Van Cauter, you're pretty strict about that. But let's say this. A family comes all the way over to Belgium, for example because the husband or wife is based here. It will allow ordinary family reunification to play, but it is limited to 18 years. This would leave the 19-year-old daughter entirely alone in the country of origin. I don't think it's possible to refuse her. Even if we had that intention, that decision would never pass the Council. Then we will draw lessons from it and allow it. How do we get on the list? You'll have to ask the Secretary of State. We didn't know anyone about these intermediaries. We've never been in touch with that either. We were sent a list of names. What did we know? We had a weekly meeting with Mr Francken on Monday morning and we also have it with Mrs De Block. There is consultation with the political government, with our boss, the Secretary of State or the Minister, but not about individual cases. The ex-secretary has never made it a secret that he did anything special for the Christian Syrians. We think they were all Syrians, I don't think anyone doubts that. They were also Christian, because the supply came partly from the Christian churches. Was it necessary for DVZ to do an additional check there? Honestly, no, because that would have been totally pointless. We didn't know any of those Syrians. The Security of the State and the OCAD also checked those lists and they didn't know any of them either. These are people who have probably never been in Europe and who did not have a reference framework. We'd rather avoid checking a list of names. We've already talked about the rumors. Checking the vulnerability is not our job. If the Secretary of State or the Minister responsible asks to give those people permission to stay, we will do so, whether they are vulnerable or not. That's his decision and not DVZ's. If we have to decide for ourselves, we will consider it and we will perhaps base our assessment on it, but if the Secretary of State himself says that there is a list of people to be authorised, then we are not the body to say that we are doing one half and not the other, Mr Vuye. I didn't think that was a secret. The Secretary of State said that in the Chamber. He said in the media that he was doing that action, in balance with the spontaneous asylum applications from 95% to 99% of people practicing Islam. The Pano broadcast was indeed bizarre. I also saw a private person handing out passports or laissez-passers on the street. That's definitely not normal. Normally, those travel documents should be handed over individually to the persons concerned at the point of contact of the diplomatic post by the visa agent, the consul or the person whose job that is. I assume that for the sake of convenience and to be rid of that given to a private person for distribution. Is that by the rules? I don't think so. In the applications DVZ dealt with, the Secretary of State did not play a role. DVZ did that autonomously as an agent. The Secretary of State didn't intervene in that. Both the refusals and the authorised authorisations came after a very detailed and in-depth analysis. A question from Mr Dallemagne was whether those lists were a normal procedure. The former Secretary of State has clearly stated his intention both here and in the media. He makes the decisions, so we have not asked ourselves any questions. It is not our role to ask questions about decisions taken by the Secretary of State or the Government. Were we aware of the possible fraud? Absolutely not. Where did the names come from? The lists were given a name. That was the first time we've seen the name Melikan. Only the cabinet had contact with the intermediaries. You'll have to ask the former Secretary of State himself. We have already talked about the meetings. The figures for 2016 are indeed much higher, but that has several reasons. On page 1 of the note that has been distributed, you will see the increased resettlement figures. That's part of the explanation for the higher figures. On Myria's figures, which I also saw in De Standaard and internally, the Secretary of State said that he delivered 1 501 visas in this way. That's an average of 500 visas in three years. This, together with the increased resettlement, brings the higher figures. Does Mrs. De Block intend to do the same? I doubt that very much. In any case, she has said both in the media and to me that she will certainly not work with lists and that she will only work with UNHCR. The figures for resettlement are figures from a European project. They are often discussed within the government, not only by the Minister of Asylum and Migration. Mr Van Hees, you asked what Mrs De Block's investigation meant. Mrs. De Block mostly wants to know what happened to those people. Did they enter the country? If they have entered the country, which is the case for the vast majority, what has happened to them in the areas of asylum applications, recognition, registration and so on? Mrs De Coninck, you are absolutely right about the annual report. DVZ's annual report has been very limited for a number of years. The reason is simply a matter of means. To collect all the figures for an annual report, people are needed to do so. They must then be removed from normal operation, which is less and less possible. You should not forget that, in the meantime, we are also facing an increase in the number of asylum applications, in which we stop a great deal of energy to try to keep that number somewhat stable in one way or another. The DVZ still has absolute priority over the handling of the files. How is the right to roll paid? The right to roll must be paid and paid into DVZ's account. It's not important who makes the payment. That could be the individual, that could be an organization, that could be someone else. It just needs to be deposited. It's part of the file. Aleppo was in favour of the right to roll. Aleppo was also not an authorization but a regular visa. However, it is not unlikely, not even for resettlements, that the right to roll will be paid by an organisation at once for a full group. That's the way it is. That is laid down in the legislation. The same applies to all processes. The right to roll is part of the complete file. The cost of rolling rights is 350 euros for adults. Visas via Foreign Affairs cost 180 euros. To the question about the role of DVZ in the approach to vulnerability, I can answer that we did not. We received the lists and forwarded them to the Security of the State and the OCAD. When they came back, we sent them back to the cabinet. That is described in a note. At the time when a cabinet employee reported that we could have them delivered, the lists were forwarded to the post in question, in many cases to Beirut. It is also not appropriate for us who work on applications in principle to play a role in this. Who made the decisions? The resettlements were signed by the State Secretary himself and the rescue operations were forwarded by a cabinet member. I think I've had all the questions. If there's any left, you know me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u31	Mr Roosemont, you may not have to answer us here, but you can add that to the report. I have also asked you to give us the figures, globally and by category. We did read it in De Standaard, but I'd like to know if this is true. Can you, then, add the figures to the report? Secondly, I asked you whether you were prepared to pass on the names of those who received a humanitarian visa to Mr Van den Bulck. In this way it is possible to find out who has applied for asylum and who has not. I also asked you if there were people who did not ask for asylum, but humanitarian regularisation. I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u32	No problem at all. I only have DVZ's figures on humanitarian regularisations from 2018. From other years we can look them up, they are also in the annual report. We can look that up, and I'll get you that. Will we forward those lists to the Commissioner-General? Absolutely. It's already been agreed. Your third question was whether any of that group asked for humanitarian regularisation. I haven't seen one of those.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u33	I would like to come back to at least one specific question. Indeed, I asked whether it was true that the Foreign Office had sent an e-mail or issued a mission order, which would explain why it was estimated at the Belgian Embassy in Beirut that Melikan Kucam was on an official mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u34	Melikan was on eight lists, six from 2018 and two from the end of 2017. The reference name was indicated. But we didn't know this gentleman at all. There was the Sant'Egidio list, the Melikan list, etc. In any case, if an email has actually been sent, it does not come from the Office of Foreigners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u35	I have received information that tells me the opposite.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u36	Show me that e-mail! In any case, I've never heard of such an e-mail. Honestly, we didn't know that person. So I don't understand how he was officially delegated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u37	It was during his mission in September 2018. But if you could do a check, Mr. Roosemont, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u38	If you show me a copy of the document, I could tell you...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u39	I'm not in possession of a copy of the e-mail. I simply have the information that an email has been sent. I would simply like you to carry out an audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u40	Like I said, we didn't know that person. The Office's agent who usually dealt with this type of list and sent it to the position is a French-speaking official from Liège who has no connection or knowledge of Malines. I would be very surprised if it came from our home. Maybe someone else sent it. I don't know. But to say so, you'd have to have access to the e-mail. Apart from the Christians of Aleppo in 2015 with Mark Geleyn, a former Director-General of Belgian Foreign Affairs – I knew him because I met him in the course of his duties a long time ago – the people of the Office never knew any intermediaries and therefore never met them physically.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u41	Mr Roosemont, don't get me wrong. We are not against granting humanitarian visas. In that sense, I didn't want to insinuate or suggest anything at all. You say that the granting of humanitarian visas can mean an extension or circumvention of the strict law on family reunification. By this you say, firstly, that a humanitarian visa can be granted on account of a pressing humanitarian situation, and secondly, that there is a non-compliant family relationship with the person coming to Belgium. If, however, there is no material and thorough investigation into the file, and if someone ends up on a list only by intercession of a family member, then we open the back door while we have the front door legally closed. That's where I sense the problem is right now. You say that a humanitarian visa cannot be denied to a family member anyway, but that is precisely why there is a substantive and formal obligation to state reasons. If no thorough investigation is carried out, if not all the elements are adjusted and weighed, and if no justification is given for refusing, then we often see...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u42	But then we are in complete agreement. We may have misunderstood each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u43	Then it's okay. I also thought we had misunderstood each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u44	Mr Roosemont, have you never heard any rumours of abuse?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u45	No, absolutely not. The latest rumor that is circulating is a message in the context of the introduction of the permis unique on 1 January, in which the Moroccan community in Belgium and, above all, in Morocco, thinks that a new regularisation will be carried out on the basis of work. That rumor has come to us through media and various other channels, and we are reacting to it through social media by qualifying it as incorrect. We have heard very little about the whole problem of intermediaries. I must also say that Christian churches, either in Mechelen or elsewhere, are not my thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u46	I also understand that you could always see the names of the intermediaries on the list you were delivered from the cabinet. So you have seen the name Melikan Kucam pass a number of times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u47	Just Melikan. There are five lists of Melikan, and there are three with Melikan-Delvaux. This means, according to Mr Delvaux's analysis and statement afterwards, that these cases have been merged. I believe that Mr Delvaux said in the newspaper that I did pass on 32 names. There is no list of Delvaux with 32 names. So they've gotten mixed up somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u48	Didn't you ever check those names? Didn't you ever ask yourself about that? Have you never asked a difficult question to the Secretary of State, for example, following the peak in 2018, about that intermediary or about his method of working? Have you ever given a critical signal to the Secretary of State about his working methods?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u49	I didn't ask any difficult questions to the Secretary of State, because he didn't keep a secret of what was meant to happen to people from Syria and, above all, to Christian people from Syria. I knew that. I wasn't going to question the Secretary of State about the numbers. That was his decision. We carried it out. Whether there were ten, five or thirty people on such a list, that was totally subordinate to me. Except in 2015, with the Aleppo case. When that procedure was developed, there was very little communication about it. That was something that was running. That went well. That could go on. The big problem, I think, is that everyone agrees on this. It is not that vulnerable people need to be saved. No one's against saving people. The problem is rather what the court is now investigating about these intermediaries, whether they were asking for money and what they were doing with that money. That's the problem, I think. Could it have worked without intermediaries? Not without churches, anyway. Is a Syrian priest a middleman? Probably. Anyway, we've never seen it. Is that a lack of critical mind in my mind? Maybe, considering afterwards, yes. In any case, at the beginning and during the procedure we knew what was going on. Moreover, it was not only the number of the group that increased, also the number of resettlements increased. The number of relocations dropped. So there was a balance. At that time, at the end of 2017 and in the first half of 2018, we were also in a period of falling asylum rates. With an average number of applications then between 1 500 and 1 700, it was of course a different situation than today, with an average number between 2 500 and 2 700.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u50	Mr Roosemont, I have just heard you literally say that you are doing what the Minister has asked you to do. You got those lists, and you didn't get more than those lists. You said yourself that you couldn't do anything with lists of names. There's only so much to check. This is contrary to the requests sent directly from the families to DVZ. These applications were justified. In those applications, you were able to check who it was, whether there were any family ties and whether the persons concerned were vulnerable. You said you couldn't check that vulnerability because all you got was a list of names. That's congruent with what your spokesperson said on television. The Secretary of State insisted that he could decide. He gave those lists to his administration and told the people on those lists to get a visa. He could do this because it's governed by the law. The law doesn't say it's forbidden to ask the administration for advice. The Secretary of State could also have passed on complete files with a justification for the application. At that time, he could have turned on DVZ to see if the application was justified. You yourself say that you reject two thirds of the other files, which do end up directly with you. In those files, you're strict. Maybe this is right, because not everyone is equally vulnerable. You reject two thirds of the applications, while on the other list, with applications submitted through the Cabinet, you could not check anything except a quick security check. I've also heard your spokesperson declare that he assumed that the cabinet did a check. That has not actually happened either, because they also got those names from a private person in which the Secretary of State apparently had confidence. Now we see where one comes with confidence in the first the best person. I am not saying that we should not have contacts, but it is mainly about people being treated in the same way. We need to be as thorough as possible, especially when it comes to such a delicate issue. In fact, life and death is decided by whether or not to take people out of there. Who are you getting out of there? Apparently it was those with the right contacts who took a shortcut to the cabinet and immediately received a visa, without asking questions. Those who didn't have the right contacts did the application by the normal route, via DVZ. There will be a thorough screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u51	With one small difference, the people chosen through the list were all Syrians. With the people who apply to us, there is only a minority of Syrians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u52	Christian Syrians, you may have to add, but they are Syrians, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u53	We didn't make that distinction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u54	That shouldn't be fixed either. I think it should be about what people are vulnerable and what we can do about it. One should be able to check, but you couldn't check because you didn't have any of those people's files. If there had been only one sheet with a description for each name, you could have checked something else. But you didn't get anything. So you couldn't trace anything either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u55	I'm pretty shocked. We are told that it is necessary to judge the vulnerability of people in difficulty to grant visas. We are then told that for the Secretary of State's lists, it was not for you to know whether they were vulnerable or not. It's unheard of violence. You tell us that because of the Prince, because we were on a list issued by a member of the government, we didn't have to be vulnerable or not, and therefore we had to be protected more than the others without any real reason to be. It's violent and it's extremely shocking. Apart from the lists of Syrian Christians you mentioned, have there been any other lists over the last three years that included people with other specific religious or geographical characteristics? I know the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u56	There were only Syrians of Christian origin on the lists. I know that because the Secretary of State said it himself. There was a surname, a first name, a date of birth and, sometimes, a passport number.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u57	I'm not questioning the fact that we've come to help people. Good if we saved lives. But I find that in view of the dozens of discussions and exchanges that we have had here and the parliamentary questions tabled by members of the House, what we have heard is unheard of violence. I would even say that we are approaching indecency because in view of the sums announced, I want to say that these people had the means compared to others, perhaps not Christians. We're wandering dangerously!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u58	I would just like to mention Mr Roosemont's statute. Nothing went wrong at DVZ. If Mr Francken tells you to use his list, you will. If Mr Francken tells you to check the list in one way or another, you will. Then you will undoubtedly do your job. There it did not go wrong, a fortiori neither did Mr Van den Bulck. Things have gone wrong here in the Chamber, not at DVZ, not at CGVS. That it is possible for colleagues to ask questions to the Secretary of State and that he does not answer them or evasively, that is where things went wrong. That system has maintained the majority. It has gone wrong here, because the control has to be done here, not at DVZ, because there was no mandate from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u59	Mr Roosemont, you confirm here that because of your services there was no control over the vulnerability of those people and that the Secretary of State had a completely free job, along with his intermediaries, and that for your part there was blind confidence. You have not given a critical signal at any time in what should be a normal interaction between government and administration. The Secretary of State gave you a blank cheque, and you signed it without asking you any questions. I don't think that's so normal. I don't think that's so normal. If an administration is confronted with such a method and is very well aware of the risks of abuse associated with it, then I think it is up to an administration to send a signal to the Secretary of State, all the more so because we now know that its method, especially in 2018, was very different from that in previous years. Surely it makes sense to enter into dialogue or debate with the Secretary of State? I don't think that's so normal. We will table a proposal for a tighter framework, which we hope will be put to the vote soon. Do you not think, with what you now know, that it would be wise for the political world to move towards a tighter legislative framework? We can still discuss the modalities and the direction, but do you think, with your experience, that something should be done at legislative level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u60	I didn't cash the blank check. I may have carried him to the bank. That wasn't a secret in the administration either. You're suggesting that that was stabbed away, wiped under the mat. Everyone here, too, knew that. I knew it. I read the records of the Chamber, I read the papers, I followed the media. Everyone knew that was happening. It was also about Syrians for whom there is still a degree of recognition of about 90%. Syrians who arrived almost certainly had recognition. In the case of people with a nationality of 20% or 30%, we could have checked the feasibility of a further stay in the context of asylum. However, these were Syrians, who came from a situation that was absolutely not evident, especially at the beginning. Have we been failed in our duty of warning? I assume the Secretary of State knew what he was doing. The role of the intermediaries has never been addressed. Honestly, that wasn't my case either, and it went wrong there, not in the system. We used to work with lists, at the time of Rwanda and the adoptive children from Haiti, but also, for example, in the Kosovo crisis of 1999-2000. At that time, we had people from Kosovo come to us on the basis of lists, not on the basis of an individual application in, for example, the Belgian embassy in Belgrade, in Serbia, which was then competent for Kosovo. We did so at that time too. So that's unusual, but not so exceptional. When it comes to a legislative framework, it depends on what it is. If you make the regulations too strict, people will always fall out of the boat, which would be very painful. The intervention of the Advisory Committee on Foreigners is something I do not like at all, because the intervention of an external organisation is always delaying; there is always a discussion, where everyone often agrees on a positive decision and then we can do it ourselves, whether there is agreement on a negative decision and then we can refuse it ourselves. I was in the Commission for regularisation a long time ago, sometime in 1999-2000. It was then about the regularization requests that had to be dealt with by such a committee. In 90% of cases, all members, DVZ, but also the NGO representative and Mr Leman himself, agreed, both positive and negative. That's not a value judgment. In short, this intervention sounds nice in theory, but given the numbers we have to deal with, this will not work at all in practice. A declaration of intent, for example in a government agreement, to frame it, seems to me to be a good thing. When a coalition agreement is agreed, of course, we do not know what will happen in the next five years. A crisis in Russia or Ukraine, or an out of control situation in Africa, for example Congo, is something new. Moreover, a declaration of intent, a political commitment by the Minister responsible, the Minister for Asylum and Migration, to his colleagues to do more on resettlement, what has happened, to expose possible vulnerability, is not so obvious. How will this be assessed, especially for those who do not apply individually, and by whom? Mrs. Lanjri is right. An individual application means evidence, documents, documents, but if, for example, Kinshasa explodes, then we have no individual applications or evidence. How will this vulnerability be assessed from Brussels? That is very difficult, both for the committee and for DVZ. Could there be intermediaries there? Maybe. Maybe not. Are they reliable intermediaries? They are absolutely necessary, but that is not so obvious. If we only talk about UNHCR, as Mrs De Block does, that is the safest procedure, but we will not reach everyone with it. It's a very complex problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u61	Mr Roosemont, frankly, I am really shocked by the words you just said that everyone knew. No, we were not aware of fraudulent intermediaries, of the price paid, of the lack of vulnerability assessment, of non-professional intermediaries. We suspected clientelism, but we could see the tip of the iceberg. We didn't see everything else. Let's stop saying we were informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u62	But I'm not talking about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u63	You seem to say we were all aware of what was going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u64	I certainly am not talking about the fact that we are paying for an intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u65	So we weren't informed of all this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u66	I was talking about the fact that Mr. Franken was doing specific actions for Christians in Syria. I am sure that Mr Franken has answered a number of parliamentary questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u67	That's all we knew and we were hoping at least that they were humanitarian operations...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u68	That's what I knew, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u69	But we realize it was human trafficking. Mr Roosement, I still wanted to ask you a question. We learn that there is no vulnerability examination either in your head or in the head of the Secretary of State. There is still a law which provides that any administrative act - in this case issuing a visa is an administrative act - must be formally reasoned. This was therefore a procedure which was completely illegal on the formal level. There was no motivation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u70	No one could dispute it because it was an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u71	But you could, in your duties and responsibilities, at least demand that there be motivation, that there be something.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u72	Positive motivations are not used. Let us be clear: they are not submitted to the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u73	Do you not consider here, under this 1991 law, that the procedure is illegal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u74	Not really. Who punishes our decisions? The Litigation Council, as an administrative tribunal. A positive decision will never be subject to such scrutiny.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u75	I would like the views of other speakers. This practice does not seem to me to be regular at all. The fact that there is no reason, no explanation whatsoever, either on your behalf or on the part of the Secretary of State, for the issuance of an administrative act does not seem to me to be in conformity with the 1991 Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u76	I would like to add my voice to what Mr Dallemagne said. You said everyone was aware anyway. I want to make it very clear that we were aware of the humanitarian corridors. We've been asking questions about that. We were aware of the settlements and we asked questions about them. We were aware that there was an opportunity for individual regularization and we asked questions about that. We have always stressed the need for greater transparency. Even though we knew that you were on a certain line, we wanted even more transparency. But what we didn't know at all was that there was another way, a way via-via, of us, of people passing lists to the Secretary of State who were then passed on to you afterwards. You were unable to judge the substance of the matter. We didn't know that. If we had known that, we would have immediately pulled the emergency brake and said that this could not pass. I hope you do not mean that we were aware of this. Then you'd be wrong. We knew of the normal procedures, but not of this slope which has actually led to abuse. I'm critical anyway, if I'd known that, the barf would be on stilts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u77	I don't doubt that for a second. But don't get me wrong, I meant that you were aware that he was doing something special for Christians from Syria. The way that happened is a completely different matter. You were aware that he was doing something special for Christians from Syria, that everyone must have known.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u78	No one has a problem with that. On the contrary, several of us have even argued for more settlements. We also said that the humanitarian corridors could be a way for people who did not get away. On the issue of that family from Syria, there has been a whole debate here on whether people should be able to apply in the country of origin, without, of course, saying that this applies to the whole world. How do we do that? Debates have been held on this subject. There was no problem with giving vulnerable people an effective opportunity to come to Belgium or another country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u79	Mr De Vriendt, the control of Mr Francken's political actions and his political decision to rescue Christian Syrians from Aleppo cannot be transferred to Mr Roosemont. That's not his job.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u81	Yes, you did. That's the job of the Chamber. The only obligation incumbent on Mr Roosemont, as an official, is to report a crime. That's his only obligation. You can't ask him why he didn't respond to those lists? That's not his job at all. That's not what he's supposed to do at all. The same applies to Mr Dallemagne's question. The law on the justification of administrative acts, the Cerexhe Act, my predecessor at the University of Namur, applies here. Who had to motivate? Mr Francken, not Mr Roosemont. It is not Mr Roosemont who took the decision, but Mr Francken. I do not think it is right to try to pin things on an official who has remained perfectly within his powers, after all I have heard from him here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u82	Mr Vuye, I think you really have an archaic view of the administration. We hold hearings with civil servants here all the time. Those officials are testifying to expertise. If, with all their expertise, they see a Secretary of State setting up such a system, then I think it is very logical that they should give an opinion or a signal to the politically responsible. I am surprised that Mr Roosemont here says that he never gave that signal, that he never raised the alarm and that he never asked a critical question. Perhaps we have a different view of how officials should operate, but otherwise, of course, the political responsibility lies with Theo Francken. We agree on that. I believe, however, that I have the right to ask Mr Roosemont the question. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u83	Why does Mr. Roosemont have to pull the alarm? What does Mr Roosemont know? Mr Roosemont knows what you know and what others know, namely that Mr Francken announces that he is setting up an emergency bridge for the Christians in Aleppo throughout the media, in the newspapers and on Twitter. We all knew that. You don't want to tell him to pull the alarm for that!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u84	I understand everyone's position, but I personally find it very difficult for us to ask a lot of questions about humanitarian visas with different people. We just pulled numbers. Numbers. I have 16 written questions to the Secretary of State who were not answered. There are four questions, long questions, with lots of questions, about humanitarian visas. They weren't answered. After a year and a half, they were not answered, although they were repeated several times. I informed the President of Parliament, Mr Bracke, in writing. I got a letter back saying that he would urge him to answer those questions. We didn't get that. That is why I asked the question about reporting, which used to be much more extensive. You say you don't have enough resources for that, which I can understand, and that priority was given to the files. If the coverage had been provided, it would have been seen that humanitarian visas were no longer an exception procedure, but that this was a regular circuit, simply because of the numbers. Then we have to start asking questions. Firstly, is there anything wrong with our other means, which means that they are not used and only humanitarian visas are used? Or is this being used for something that we have not actually discussed and on which we have no consensus? It is possible to lay down procedures in advance, but also to carry out subsequent audits and controls. There's even a federal audit firm with us. One could have asked perfectly for an audit. There has once been an audit on the expulsion of people and the abuses that have been there. We've asked questions about that. There's been an audit on medical reasons to get residence permits here. We should have done that, there were questions to ask. The peak of humanitarian visas is in 2018. When were the problems most severe in Syria? In 2015, not in 2018. Those humanitarian visas were thus used as a separate channel to bring people to Belgium. We don't know if they were vulnerable people, but I assume so. They were vulnerable Christians who were brought to Belgium, while we were also looking at Mrs Lanjri on our knees almost begging to bring vulnerable people from refugee camps here and to resettle them within the framework of the agreements within Europe. After all, migration policy can only be agreed at international level. Europe was accused of not having a policy, but Europe had made agreements, which were not complied with, and a separate circuit was organized at another time. That's one of the big problems I have with this story. Mr Van den Bulck, you have the floor to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u85	Madam President, I will do my best to answer all the questions, briefly but as fully and pertinently as possible. The first question has already been answered several times in my name. I can say quite clearly once again that the Secretary of State did not intervene in any way in the examination of asylum applications. That has not happened with regard to the files of persons to whom a humanitarian visa has been issued, it has not happened in any way, never. I've said that at other times. The former Secretary of State, like other ministers before him, has always respected the independence of the Commissioner. On the other hand, all files of persons from Syria are dealt with as a matter of priority. All requests for persons from Syria in general have been dealt with in the short term. This applies to persons who have received a visa but also to others. That is the answer to a first question. A second question was about the persons to whom a so-called humanitarian visa was given. I have to distinguish between the first group of Christians from Aleppo in 2015 and all other files afterwards. I will not comment on whether they were different in terms of need for protection and vulnerability. I can't because I can't see the other files either. The only thing is that, unlike the other dossiers, I have had a clear view, at least on the first aspect, namely whether or not there was a special need. We have also examined this criterion in general, in addition to the individual sheets. Certain persons then first went to the State Secretary to ask for visas for a group of persons, in particular to a group of Christians in a special situation in Aleppo. I must point out that the situation at that time in Aleppo, in particular an encircling of the city by mainly rebel groups, led them to find themselves in an increasingly precarious situation. That was a precarious socio-economic situation, but there were also increasing bombings and so on. It was getting harder and harder to get out of town. I'm not going to share all the elements. That was mentioned. First of all, we have looked at this in advance. How precarious is the situation? What is the possibility for people to get out of town? There was no longer the same possibility for people from Aleppo to flee to Turkey, certainly not for Christians. I come to Mrs Smeyers' question as to whether they had any other option. It's always hard to say. There were also opportunities for an internal flight, within Syria. In any case, it was clear that that group was in a very special, acute situation at the time, but in fact all seventy thousand Christians who were still present in the city at that time. This had to do with the conflict situation at the time. We then examined the general situation. We have also examined individual sheets, albeit not necessarily from everyone. I have already indicated that we cannot really give an assessment on the basis of a short sheet drawn up by the person concerned or by others, without carrying out a real investigation, with an interview. A number of cases were also assessed at that time. In all other applications for humanitarian visas, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless has not been involved in any way. Nor can I say how acute the situation was for those people who have been given a visa. At the moment I cannot say whether in all cases these are people with a real need for protection. I suppose so, because it's mostly Syrians. If I get the lists, I will also be able to determine in a relatively short time what decisions we have taken in the meantime. After all, I assume that in most cases a decision has been taken for those who have effectively applied for asylum. Then I'll be able to say the same. In this respect, we can very quickly provide figures, statistics, on what decisions we have taken in those files, after the assessment of the situation and the need for protection of those persons. Thirdly, whether UNHCR is present in Aleppo and/or Syria, I cannot and dare not say at the moment. I think UNHCR is active there. What I can clearly say is that, as a rule, resettlement as a UNHCR programme is limited to persons who have already left their country of origin. These are refugees who reside in, usually, neighbouring countries of the country they have fled. This also has to do with the mandate and definition of refugee. I can go on about this for a long time, but briefly: one of the conditions for obtaining refugee status in accordance with the definition of refugee in the Geneva Convention is that the person concerned has left his country. Such a programme is therefore in line with the definition of refugee. You will also find this in the information I have provided you about UNHCR and in the UNHCR's own documents:Resettlement is always one of the three solutions for UNHCR and, in fact, the third solution in the series. In the first place, one always checks whether there is a possibility of returning to the country. Secondly, UNHCR is examining whether or not there is a real possibility of reintegration into the region. Only in the third instance, if these other possibilities are not available, will the search for a sustainable solution be addressed. That brings us to the problem. However, I will not comment on that. It is not obvious to make a choice between resettlement of persons in neighbouring countries or the direct transmission of persons from the country of origin, making a choice who may come first. I'm just putting on the table that there are 60 million refugees now. Who's first? Is one group more in need than the other group? That's not obvious. In order to make an objective choice at some point, one must call on a professional who has an insight into the situation of refugees in the world as a whole. That's UNHCR. For me, this is an argument that, if we want to choose to make more refugees happen, we should rely primarily on UNHCR's analysis and choices. UNHCR makes choices every year, from a total framework. I can get you that information. The organisation indicates which group I think is in the most acute situation in terms of protection between hundreds of thousands and two hundred thousand people. UNHCR has a programme running there. It's about Syrians, but it's also about refugees in other parts of the world. Within this framework, Belgium and other Member States are making choices on resolution. Besides, Belgium chooses not only Syrians, but also persons from other countries of origin, for example explicitly from the region of the Great Lakes in Africa, so there is no limit to Syrians alone. This does not exclude the possibility of creating a possibility for certain acute situations. In general, however, if a system is to be created and further developed, I believe that the resolution can be given more space instead of creating much more additional channels through other organisations that can provide people. Next point, and I can be quite clear in that: within the Commissioner-General, we have not received any indications or elements that indicated abuse. As I know, people within the Commissioner-General have not heard rumors about illegal activities, abuse or human trafficking. I can add that it is a very clear line of policy within the Commissioner-General that, in the case of indications of a crime or a danger to society and to national security, they must be notified to a special coordinator within the Commissioner-General and to me. From there, these elements will be reported to the competent services. That may be, depending on the nature of the problems, the intelligence services, the King's Attorney or the police. That is a very clear line. If there is one, it is very clear because questions could be asked at the time with regard to professional secrecy. We therefore asked at the time to amend the law on the Commissioner-General in order to ensure that there is no doubt that the identification of such elements to police services, intelligence services or the King's Attorney is not contrary to the professional secrecy which we also consider to be extremely important. The identification of these elements is a clear exception and is, moreover, the only exception. So we have no knowledge of that. If we had known about it, we would have noticed it immediately. Besides, we didn't know about the video either. Mr De Vriendt, you specifically asked for it. We had no knowledge of this, and we only established it afterwards. For the sake of clarity and investigation, the mission of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless is to check whether there is a need for protection. In this context, we must, of course, examine identity, origin and so on, but we are focusing our research primarily on the need for protection in order to grant refugee status or subsidiary protection status. Therefore, we do not examine all other elements when they are not directly relevant to the investigation. I have already mentioned the following. At the moment we have no idea whether the persons who have received a visa have all submitted an application for asylum, an application for international protection. I cannot therefore say what decision we have taken on these matters. We had in no way understood the procedures and the way in which, after the situation with the first group in 2015, the procedures had been worked out. I can say very clearly that the aspects surrounding this procedure or other have not been discussed in any way with the Secretary of State in my presence. I also have regular meetings with the Secretary of State. Firstly, we are talking about issues that are important to me too, such as the budget. We must have sufficient resources to function. Other questions may also be addressed. If I'm asked for advice, I'll give it to you. I also gave an opinion on the issue of humanitarian visas, but the points discussed with the Commissioner are relatively limited. There is no discussion and I do not account for the way in which I assess asylum applications and the situation in the countries of origin. These matters are not a matter of discussion. The independence of the Commissioner also means that it is not up to me to ask questions about matters which are outside the competence of the Commissioner. This also means that items which are outside the competence of the Commissioner are not generally discussed with me or with experts from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. On the issue, at the time, we did a short legal study. I can make this note available to you, along with the written note containing a statement of the sponsorship tracks which, in 2015, were applicable in other countries. As I mentioned earlier, in early 2015, there was a real discussion on the issue within the firm. The Secretary of State wanted to study how to develop something and organize a framework. A first draft has been drawn up. Representatives of civil society were invited to the firm. I am thinking, among other things, of the Belgian Committee and Vluchtelingenwerk. But after the first project, we didn't discuss it anymore. And for my part, I did not ask any questions because it did not fall within the jurisdiction of the Office of the Commissioner. There was another interesting question about suggestions for a possible legislative initiative. That is a very interesting question, but it is not easy to give some elements immediately on a leaf. I can do that, but I would really like to look into that again. However, I would like to add a number of elements. If a legislative framework is to be developed, it must be avoided that one way or another a regulation is to be established which creates an additional subjective right. We can also lay down criteria at some point, but as I have just said, that is a second element. If certain rights are taken from them, it is possible to determine a quota or at least to provide in the law that the Minister may at that time fix a quota in order to prevent unlimited use of it. That can be a political decision of the government every time, on which parliamentary control is exercised, but in order to do so, it must be clearly laid down in the law. A third element is that the law provides for at least a number of elements to be demonstrated as regards the need for protection and, where appropriate, vulnerability criteria, to which reference has been made a number of times. I would point out that the first set of conditions of vulnerability involves checking whether there is a need for protection, because additional rules on vulnerability are actually rules on determining priority rather than rules on need for protection. Another element is that it may or may not be possible to determine which documents may have to be submitted. That is why I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u86	We Members of this House may have to take what was mentioned at the end. We need to think about the crisis and the many questions that have been asked. We must also ask ourselves what we should do in the future. Never waste a good crisis . We may ask you again to put forward ideas or point out to us what we should look for, to establish other procedures and principles for the future. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you have a question for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u87	Madam President, I would like to ask Mr to provide the various documents requested to the secretariat so that we can consult them. We have already obtained some answers to our various questions, but the documents will provide us with more details.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u88	We had fewer questions, but we will try to answer them quickly and succinctly. In order to answer the question on the constitution of civil parties on trafficking, Myria may file a civil action in cases of trafficking or trafficking. We usually do so on grounds of opportunity: are there any victims to defend who cannot defend themselves? Is the file emblematic? Will it bring us an added value in terms of analysis? In the Kucam file, it's not excluded, but it's not certain. I am obliged to give you a response from Normand because we have a question about the constitution of traffic prevention. It is a case of extortion and corruption and, indeed, the Antwerp prosecutor's office is also prosecuting for trafficking. Only, in law and in practice, the offence of trafficking requires, in order to be constituted, assistance in the illegal crossing of a border with a view to obtaining a heritage advantage from it. In this case, there is certainly a property benefit and remuneration, but is border crossing illegal? This does not seem so obvious because nothing is more legal than the titles by which all these people arrived, even though many others have had to pay and pay dearly to get them. There's some kind of uncertainty. To be frank, we debate and gather information to understand the reasoning of the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office, which necessarily has information that we do not have. Perhaps he has a reasoning that stands? We're working on it. If, in the coming weeks, we were to gain the conviction that the prevention of trafficking is indeed constituted, it is an emblematic subject. And if we have the opportunity to see that our civil party constitution brings added value, then yes, I will make the proposal to my board of directors. We can become a civil party at different stages of the proceedings. So it's worth looking at everything carefully. That deserves reflection and we are thinking about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u89	I would first like to respond to Mrs Van Cauter and Mr Vuye, who unfortunately is no longer here. He made a mistake in our report last year that humanitarian visas would be a bypass of family reunification. We do not see it as such, because it is always for additional humanitarian reasons that are indicated. If the conditions were not met, and therefore there was circumvention, a dossier would not be approved; there should always be additional humanitarian reasons. Neither in the DVZ procedure, nor necessarily in the rescue operations carried out by the cabinet, was it a circumvention of family reunification. In the cabinet rescue operations, our point was that a framework is needed to avoid arbitrary and also unequal treatment in the case of family ties, between the cabinet road and the DVZ road. It's not about a bypass. Humanitarian conditions can indeed be diverse. That's not just about the fact that someone with a special need for protection is in Aleppo. It may also be about a special situation of force majeure, which means that one no longer meets the conditions of family reunification or is in a special situation. The example has already been given of a 19-year-old daughter who is left all alone in Lebanon. We believe that this is a humanitarian reason, not a pure bypass of the procedure. To give another example: religiously married couples or actually adopted children who have been forced to flee to a third country due to circumstances often do not have the opportunity to officialize their marriage or adoption relationship. In these cases too, the only way forward is the humanitarian visa procedure. It could also be about an Afghan mother who went to a VFS office, an outsourced office, in Islamabad to submit an application there to reunite with her child, an unaccompanied minor refugee. But she was sent back. It is often the case that wrong information follows and that that person returns, but that the application is registered five days late, for example, after the unaccompanied minor has turned 18 or after the three-month period that currently exists. I think it's important to give that to you. I would also like to give an example of a family member who did not submit the application within one year because the family members were separated by the flight. It sometimes happens that there is no longer contact with the husband, that contact is sought through tracing, but that meanwhile the year has passed. After one year, the means of subsistence is conditional. In such cases, we believe that it is a question of force majeure. These are special situations, humanitarian situations. We do not believe that this is a circumvention of the procedure, because the necessary humanitarian element exists. I hope that the report makes this clear so that this can also be read by Mr Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u90	I liked to take the floor for a personal fact, because you mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u91	I have just explained that this is not the case at a committee meeting. Let her finish first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u92	I am now speaking on that point. I would now like to go to the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u93	Mrs Declercq, I understand what you are saying, let there be no doubt about that. It is not because one is a family member that one would not be entitled to a humanitarian visa. If the situation is precarious and justifies the humanitarian visa, then it does not matter whether it is an aunt, uncle or child of anyone. One must be able to get that favor. That's no problem at all. If, however, a member of the family, a friend or I know who is on a list and if it is not possible to ascertain whether the situation is really precarious, then we are wrong. Then we are circumventing the adopted strict legislation on family reunification and opening the back door. That can't be the intention. That has nothing to do with you, but the law on family reunification is characterised by strict criteria. Some people have been shouting very loudly that we certainly shouldn't be tormented by that, you know?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u94	In our case, the point about rescue operations is rather that there was too little framework, which meant that there was actually a random treatment. It is true that we have no idea which vulnerabilities have been effectively taken into account. Of course, there is indeed a high rate of recognition for Syrians and at first sight that is all right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u95	You say at first sight, but there is no control of identity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u96	That's where we're on the same page. That's exactly the point, whatever we make. However, I do not want to use the terms 'departure from the rules on family reunification', because this is not necessarily the case. If there are additional humanitarian reasons, even if there are family ties, then it is no longer a question of bypassing. That's the only point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u97	I'd like to say something about that. In fact, humanitarian visas are a bypass of everything, because that is why the system has been created. In very exceptional situations it is possible to make a different decision, a decision that would not normally be made. That can be family or family reunification, but it can also be for medical reasons. It could be anything, but it can't be a rule, because that's a problem. I believe that Mr Van Cauter is probably reacting very strongly because we have always heard that a very strict and fair policy has been pursued, whereas we now see that this has not always been the case, depending on the wallet, background, circle of acquaintances and so on. I think we all understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u98	I should perhaps like to go into more detail about Mr De Vriendt's and Mrs Lanjri's questions about more objectiveisation and transparency, possibly through a legislative initiative. In our note, we have provided pistes, both for the usual, traditional procedure in which the Department of Foreign Affairs assesses the content of the case and for the situation where there are more ad hoc initiatives. We believe that it may really be necessary to look at those slopes. Sometimes, after all, we need a quick response to an imminent situation that can be very different tomorrow than today. For both situations it is necessary to have a parliamentary debate on the choices made. An annual report is needed to ensure transparency. In addition, we believe that ad hoc initiatives, in order to respond to imminent situations, may be different from the way in which they have gone. We have already said this. This system needs a stronger framework and framework agreements with organisations that make a selection in the field. Those are all pistes where we can find ourselves. In any case, they must be recognised organisations that are reliable. We believe that both things can be united: on the one hand, the desire to prevent arbitrariness and abuse and to provide more framework, and on the other hand, the desire to respond quickly to more imminent situations for which the procedure of the Department of Foreign Affairs may not always be the best procedure. At the same time, the submission and assessment by DVZ must be carried out within the procedure of the Foreign Affairs Office. We have already listed the areas in which we are asking for facilitation in terms of submission and lower costs. We are also thinking specifically about the objectification of the procedure of public policy, which can serve as a guide for the administration and also for those involved. They must be of a non-ordering and non-binding character. Rather, they should be regarded as non-exhaustive touchstones, where DVZ can still assess case-by-case, but must motivate deviations. A consultative body can indeed be envisaged, but in the first instance a consultative body can explain or co-examine the guidelines. It might even be worth considering whether such an advisory body could also include the Commissioner-General or a UNHCR member when it comes to giving advice on the protection requirements of certain groups. In addition, advice may be sought in certain types of case. I do not know whether it is desirable to give an opinion on each individual dossier. Perhaps it could be more about certain types of dossiers, but in the first instance it could be about helping shape the policies. I still have a few small answers. Myria had no knowledge of abuse and abuses. We've never heard of it. Of course, we were also aware of Secretary of State Francken's desire to do something for Syrian Christians. When individual applicants contacted us about the chances of achieving a humanitarian visa through the submission at the embassy, we sometimes reported that we knew that Secretary of State Theo Francken was taking initiatives, for example with Sant' Egidio, to transfer Syrians. That is what we were talking about, of course. In this way they probably also contacted the cabinet or Sant' Egidio. After all, that was the only organization we knew about. However, we did not know anything about rumours of abuse or payments to get on such lists. With regard to the cost of the procedure, we know that Sant' Egidio has borne all the costs for those who have come up with the humanitarian corridor. That's a payment on DVZ's account, but they carried it. I think Fedasil will bear the cost of the administrative contribution when it comes to resettlement. That was said at a contact meeting, but that can still be checked. For the rest of the initiatives, we are in the dark who borne the costs. For ordinary humanitarian visas through the DVZ procedure, we know that all costs come on the shoulders of the applicants. We do know about the initiative in Canada, but we do not know its exact scope. This is certainly also a recommendation that we have reiterated in order to further examine such initiatives and to work through reliable organisations when such initiatives are being developed. I also have no knowledge of the platform with the religious organizations that would have taken place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u99	Madam President, I would like to add a few more points. I would like to say a few words about the circumvention of family reunification. I'd like to give you the numbers. Family reunification is about 50 000 people a year and about half of them are third-country nationals. The DVZ procedure, which is a form of extensive family reunification, involves 550 people, all nationalities together, according to our dates, which are not just about that category. I'll give you that to know the order of magnitude. This is actually small beer compared to that big canal of family reunification. With regard to the figures, I would like to return to this slide for a moment. It was said at one point that Myria would not work on the basis of official figures, because we would not have access to them. I want to formally deny that. The analyses we make were made on the basis of the visa database, based on data made available to us by the FPS Foreign Affairs. It is effective that we consult with the Foreign Office for its interpretation, for the things that we get out of it. On all kinds of figures we have regular contact and meetings with the DVZ statistical cell. So we have the same data, but here we have actually made an exercise, although we do not have the categories. I would like to add that in the visa database, at the request of the Foreign Affairs Office, stickers have been added to the operational database to check whether it is about a resettlement or about those rescue operations. These are data that are not statistically exploitable and that we do not have access to either. Hence our very clear recommendation, for years, to clarify this. From the data we have collected here, we are indirectly trying to determine whether it is a humanitarian visa issued after the agreement of DVZ or an automatic delivery. Conclusions can then be drawn from this, taking into account short-term and long-stay exchanges. On this basis, we come to this whole, which we have set in percentages, for the simple reason that we know that it is not 100% correct and that it is trends. In the figures for 2018 for Syrians we arrive at 52 % resettlements. We need to be able to explain the others through rescue operations. If we look at the total number of resettlements per year, this corresponds to the dates we have received from other official sources, such as Fedasil. When it comes to the rescue operations, we see that the whole for the years 2015-2018 comes to a figure of a good 1600, which is in line with the 1 501 on which the former Secretary of State communicated. What could explain that difference? That, in addition to the rescue operations, humanitarian visas have undoubtedly been granted to non-Christian Syrians on the basis of discretionary powers, but that is a very small difference over all these years. This strengthens us in the belief that our interpretation is not entirely out of the blue. In connection with the rescue operations, one more point. We weren't aware of fraud. What we did address, and we wrote a great paper on it in May 2017, is that we knew about the rescue operations that were being communicated in the media, but that we clearly asked for transparency there because we found that large numbers were being issued of our own accord; it could not be different from lists. We had great questions about the framework in which that happened. In this sense, we raised this at least two years ago. The figures themselves clearly require further cooperation with the other services. There are certain things that don't exactly match. According to our information, for example, the relocations are not included, but we need to look at this more closely. It has also been said that the peak in summer must be very clearly linked to the rescue operations. I would like to repeat that this is also a question of resettlement. Those of their own motion are therefore for both rescue and resettlement operations. The database itself is a rich database. We can get a lot out of that. So we also see that large lists have been requested and delivered on the same day at many different times. So it's about a very fast procedure. There is no other way, on the basis of such lists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1021x.u100	I suggest we close the hearing here. I would like to thank the speakers once again. Depending on what we as a committee decide, they may one day be invited to continue working.
