ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u1	Mr President, I do not want to disturb the general good mood, but I hear regularly that Members are not able to ask all their questions. You know that we have tried regularly to exhaust the agenda. However, I cannot answer questions that are not asked to me. I mean that, if parliamentarians are absent, I would like to postpone – even if that is not necessarily the rule – but if they come to tell me as I have heard a few times, that questions are very old, then I would suggest that you ask them myself. In any case, they will become more and more old if some Members are never there to ask them. I still wanted to point it out. Regularly, the feeling is that they are not laid, for lack of time. Those who chaired this committee, such as Mrs Bellens, know that at the end of the committee meeting we were often only present with two people, in particular the chairman and myself as minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u2	Thank you, Minister, for that rightful remark. I would suggest that the questions of those who are not here and have not let anyone know simply lapse. This is the case in the case of Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u3	Mr President, Minister, I have a first question on the Stockholm Agreement for Yemen. We are concerned about the political and humanitarian situation in Yemen. A number of steps have been taken with the Stockholm Agreement and the adoption of a new UN Security Council resolution implementing that agreement which sets an immediate cease-fire in the heavily hit city of Hodeida. The agreement is a necessary first step towards finding a solution to the conflict. However, we are still seeing a deterioration in the humanitarian situation in the country today. It remains necessary to take further steps to achieve a ceasefire for the whole country and to address the humanitarian situation. My questions to the Minister are as follows. What is your analysis of the UN Security Council resolution? Which points do you think should be raised? Can you explain the implementation of the Stockholm Agreement? What further challenges need to be addressed? What points will our country raise in relation to the follow-up to the situation in Yemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u4	Mr President, Mr Van Peteghem, Belgium welcomes the adoption of UN Resolution 2451 on 21 December 2018, which supports the Stockholm Agreement, and UN Resolution 2452 on 16 January 2019, which mandates the UN Mission MINUAH to implement Resolution 2451. The resolutions are balanced and give the Secretary-General's Special Envoy, Martin Griffiths, the necessary mandate to continue his mediation. The resolutions also serve as a basis for future negotiations on an inclusive political solution. For Belgium, it is very important that the Stockholm Agreement is respected and implemented within realistic deadlines. The cease-fire in the port of Hodeida and the withdrawal of troops are particularly important, given the seriousness of the humanitarian situation. This port is essential for the access of humanitarian aid and the import of commercial goods. The conference of donors on 26 February was a crucial moment to gather the funds needed to meet the huge needs of the country. As I said, Belgium contributes more than EUR 8 million directly, but there is also the funding of several uninfected funds from the European Union, the United Nations and some NGOs, such as the Red Cross. I asked for a detail of the affectation of the various funds to Yemen. It's not just bilateral support. With the amount of more than EUR 8 million, we are one of the main donors, as I said yesterday at the Pledging Conference in Geneva. In order to enable the UN to monitor the implementation of the agreement, it is essential that the parties make every effort to ensure the proper functioning of the UN mission. This requires ensuring access to the Redeployment Coordination Committee for the entire area of the Hodeida Directorate. Such access must be without restrictions. In addition, the parties must ensure the safety of UN personnel. In order not to lose the present momentum, it is also essential that the parties show restraint and concentrate on the implementation of the agreement. Any violation of the latter undermines the efforts of the international community and, in particular, the work of the UN Special Envoy Griffiths, who is fully supported by Belgium. Confidence measures are necessary to keep the process on track. In this respect, I welcome the initiatives taken by both sides, in particular recent progress in implementing the agreement on the release of prisoners and the desire to continue the implementation of the Stockholm Agreement, despite the recent incidents. We have to redeem the positive elements. Belgium also focuses on the need for a significant and equal participation of women in the political process. In Taiz, for example, women play an important role as only they can cross the checkpoints in the city. They may also contribute to the monitoring of the agreement on the exchange of prisoners or the control of the cease-fire in Hodeida. In the long term, the participation of Yemeni women should not be the exception, but the rule. They should be systematically involved in the discussions and decisions on Yemen. The recruitment of children in the conflict is also a tragedy to which we must focus our attention. Children are the biggest victims of the Yemeni conflict. Belgium calls on all parties to respect international humanitarian law and to take effective and urgent action in this respect. Finally, Belgium encourages the parties to continue the dialogue leading to an inclusive political solution under the guidance of UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths. Only an inclusive political solution can put an end to the conflict and the dramatic consequences it has for the civilian population.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u6	Minister, Hungary passed a law last month which allows employers to make 400 overtime a year and to pay it only three years later. This law would have been motivated by the desire to tackle the labour market deficit. The population went on the streets for days against this, hence a number of questions. Could you give me a little more explanation about this law? Has our country taken steps bilaterally or through the EU to address the Hungarian authorities? What were the views expressed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u7	Mr Van Peteghem, the Hungarian labour market is suffering from severe shortages. The Hungarian Government has adopted a law that increases the number of overtime allowed from 250 to 400 hours a year. Of these 150 extra hours one can perform 50 hours if there is a collective agreement, and on a purely individual voluntary basis. Employees with regular work schedules are paid at the end of the month for all their overtime. Employees working on irregular schedules may find themselves in a situation where overtime will be paid at the end of 36 months. This applies to the extent that there is a collective agreement in the company that allows this postponement of payment. The delay of payment currently amounts to 12 months and is only possible if there is a collective agreement. It is not for a Member State to interpret a legal provision of another Member State. If this proposed working time law is contrary to European legislation, it is up to the European Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, to intervene and, if necessary, bring this matter before the European Court of Justice. You know that the European Parliament has already made a number of comments on some Hungarian laws. Perhaps this will also be the case for this particular law. This law was passed not only by the Hungarian Government, but also by the Hungarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u8	Thank you for your explanation. I believe that your comment is correct and that this law is a drop too much. If it were a single fact, there would probably be less reaction. At least I thank you for your answers and look forward to what else will happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u9	Mr President, Minister, according to the German Embassy, 40 000 Kosovars would have applied for a work visa in Kosovo. The situation in the region there is, of course, well known. There are a lot of tensions, which are compounded by the creation or failure of their own Kosovo army, by the murder of the Serbian-Kosovar leader, by statements about a Greater Albania and by the economic malaise in the region. That's why I have a few questions. Does a German work visa because of the Schengen zone affect a possible influx of Kosovars into our country? Where are the talks between Kosovo and the European Union on visa-free travel between the two entities? What is the government's position on these negotiations in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, according to the information I have at my disposal, there is a bilateral agreement between Germany and Kosovo, which allows Kosovar citizens to legally work in Germany. Although we are not aware of the precise terms of the agreement, it seems to me that the issue by the German authorities of a work visa means that the persons concerned will actually be employed in Germany. As a result, the risk of secondary migration to Belgium appears limited. However, in accordance with Regulation 265/2010 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 25 March 2010, long-stay visa holders have the right to move around the territory of the Member State. This means that the holders of a national visa issued by a Schengen Member State have the right to move within the Schengen territory for 90 days on a 180-day period. Following ratification by the Kosovo Parliament of the bilateral treaty with Montenegro on border demarcation on 21 March 2018, the European Commission sent a team of experts to Kosovo to evaluate the remaining criterion on anti-corruption and organised crime. In its report of 18 July 2018, the European Commission concluded that Kosovo met the criteria and could be added to the visa-free countries. The European Parliament then also agreed to the European Commission's proposal. The dossier is now in the hands of the Council of the European Union, where a qualified majority is formally required. The broadest possible consensus is being sought, but it is not yet reached. The discussions therefore continue with the experts in the working groups. The government supports visa liberalisation with Kosovo if all the criteria set out in the Action Plan are met. However, its own analysis is that the concrete results of measures to combat organised crime and corruption in the field still need to be improved. Apart from the individual criteria set out in the Action Plan, migration pressure will also be taken into account as a general principle in the final position; you will remember that an emergency braking procedure has recently been introduced into European regulation. On the one hand, today we find that the number of applications for asylum from Kosovo has fallen sharply compared to the peak year 2015. On the other hand, the number of visas refused remains above average. Our country has therefore not yet agreed to the Commission proposal and will continue to follow the further implementation of the criteria set out in the Kosovo Action Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It remains a very unstable region. When the active population withdraws, this causes even more concern. I think the country itself needs people who remain active in its own community. In order to stabilise the situation, it is particularly important that the parties concerned do so first, but apparently no major progress can be expected there. I am pleased that you say that all the criteria must be met before we can accept them. This supports the idea that we still see the enlargement of the EU as a crowning achievement at work when all the conditions are met. That is a position that we must continue to defend.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u12	Minister, in the recent elections, Mr Morales became President of Guatemala. Soon there was fraud. The CICIG Committee, which has been active in the country for 11 years, wanted to investigate the allegations of fraud. President Morales then decided no longer to extend the mandate of that committee, so that the committee members had to leave the country. That committee is an important instrument of the UN Security Council, in which our country is also very active. Minister, what is the position of our country and of the EU within the Security Council regarding President Morales' démarche? What is the assessment of our competent diplomatic post on allegations of fraud and corruption against the President and his entourage? What initiatives will our UN representation in the Security Council take to allow the CICIG to resume its work in Guatemala or possibly impose sanctions against the President and his entourage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u13	Mrs Bellens, the recent developments in Guatemala regarding the International Commission for the fight against impunity (CIGIC) are certainly worrying and destabilising the country. Initially, President Morales, who was elected in 2015 on the basis of anti-corruption promises, supported the work of the Committee. Since 2006, the Commission has had a mandate to conduct independent investigations into criminal offences and organised crime within the state apparatus. With this mandate and in cooperation with the Guatemalan justice system, the committee achieved some important results. This changed when the committee focused on the president and his family members with an investigation into illegal funding of his election campaign in 2015. In 2017, the Committee established the president's son and brother in suspicion of corruption and opened an investigation together with the Guatemalan justice system. This significantly deteriorated the relationship between President Morales and the head of the commission, the Colombian magistrate Iván Velásquez. In August 2017, President Morales had declared Mr Iván Velásquez persona non grata, but that was reversed by the Constitutional Court. In September 2018, Guatemala's National Security Council, chaired by President Morales, declared that Mr Velásquez was a threat to public order and security and therefore denied him access to the territory. Since then, President Morales has engaged in a personal struggle with the committee, with the final fact being the decision on 7 January 2019 to withdraw his country from the committee agreement with the UN, a mandate that normally ran until September 2019. President Morales can count on the support of a large part of the elite, who traditionally relied on impunity in corruption cases, among others, but who feel increasingly threatened. From our embassy in Panama City, which is also accredited in Guatemala, our country closely follows the situation. This is also happening in the various multilateral fora where the situation in the country is addressed, including the UN. On 12 September 2018, Belgium intervened on Guatemala at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva. In line with the findings of the various UN experts, our country stresses the crucial role that civil society plays in the field of human rights. We called on Guatemala to provide better protection for human rights defenders and expressed our disappointment at the refusal of the chairman of the committee to enter the territory. Our country also supported the statements made by the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy, Ms Mogherini, on 11 January 2019, deeply regretting the recent withdrawal of the Guatemalan Government from the agreement with the UN. In a letter dated 16 January 2019, Ms Sandra Jovel, Guatemalan Foreign Minister, assured me that ending the agreement with the committee would not affect the continuation by the Guatemalan government of the court cases in which the committee was already involved. At the moment, however, the situation in Guatemala has not yet been discussed at the UN Security Council. Before the President of the Security Council can place the situation in a particular country on the Security Council's agenda, it must be a threat to international peace and security. Furthermore, there should be sufficient support for this with the other members of the UN Security Council, which may not be the case for Guatemala at the moment. We will continue to follow this dossier in New York with due attention in view of possible future discussions, but that discussion has not yet been discussed in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Of course, it's not Guatemala alone. In Central and South America there are several hotspots, countries with common characteristics: dictatorial clinging to power, corruption, fraud and drug trafficking. This is worrying for the development of these countries, but above all for the population. I hear you're working on this and want to get on with it. The question from our group is to continue to look at the democratic values and basic principles necessary for the further development of these countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u15	I would just like to say that there has been an e-mail from Mr Luyckx asking for his two questions. 28027 and 28286. This e-mail was addressed to us in good time, but I'm just getting to see it now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u16	Deputy Prime Minister, by sending a letter, the White House is putting pressure on the companies involved in the Stream 2 pipeline project. According to the spokesman for the US Embassy in Berlin, this letter reminds all companies involved in the Russian energy export pipeline sector that they are facing US sanctions. At the centre of this controversy is the ongoing Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project, which delivers Russian gas to Germany and the rest of Europe directly through the Baltic Sea and thus bypassing Ukraine, the main crossing point to date. This pipeline must follow the same route as a first such pipeline called Nord Stream 1, via the territorial waters of five countries: Russia, Finland, Sweden, Denmark and Germany. The challenge is to double the delivered gas capacity. Mr Minister, are Belgian companies affected by these letters? What is the EU's response to these US pressures? Can we speak of American interference in the economic and strategic choices of Russian gas supply? What are the real risks of US sanctions? Is this Stream 2 pipeline project consistent within the framework of European sanctions against Russia on the Ukrainian crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u17	My colleague, there are no Belgian companies directly involved in the Nord Stream 2 pipeline project, so that Belgium and its companies are not directly exposed to possible US sanctions. The Nord Stream 2 project and the American positions are closely monitored by the European institutions and the Member States. However, given that, at this stage, the US sanctions you are referring to are only draft legislation still under debate in the US Congress, the European Union has not responded formally to this, but maintains a constructive dialogue with the various bodies concerned in the United States on their sanctions policy. On the other hand, if US sanctions were to materialize, there was a real likelihood that European economic actors involved in the pipeline project would suffer the consequences, which could have the effect of intensifying tensions in transatlantic relations. With regard to your question on the coherence between the Nord Stream 2 project and the European sanctions framework, I would remind you that the European sanctions against Russia on the Ukrainian crisis apply only to the export of Russian products and technologies related to energy exploration and production. The current sanctions have no impact on either the energy supply or the Nord Stream 2 project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer, which I am satisfied with. It is part of the dossier on energy independence. It is known that for Europe as a whole Russia is increasingly important in terms of gas and oil supplies. This is an exciting subject that can lead to many discussions
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u19	Mr President, I should like to point out that I have turned my question No 28515 into a written question. Secondly, as the issue of jihadists has already been raised in plenary last week, my colleagues Waterschoot and Dallemagne propose that our questions on this subject also receive a written answer – if you agree, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u20	Minister, can I still allow a member to ask one last question? In this way, colleagues will know that they must not wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u21	Mr President, I also wish to turn my questions Nos 28524 and 28607 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u22	Yes, but then Mrs Bellens' agreement is necessary, as are the attached questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof asked me to turn our questions into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u24	Is this also the case for Question No 28733 by Mrs Rita Bellens, attached to yours? [[Sentiment]] Questions Nos 28732 and 28734 of the latter are also transformed into written questions. Minister, I am too happy not to submit you to the torture of parliamentary questions!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u25	The situation in Venezuela is becoming increasingly grim and escalating. The situation is not only coming under increasing political pressure, but also in the humanitarian field the situation is deteriorating more and more. The Venezuelans are on the run and the population needs medicine and food, but help is stopped at the border. Can you give an estimate of the situation on the ground? What is the government's position on the self-proclamation of President of Parliament Guaidó? What position has Belgium taken within the UN Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u26	You have undoubtedly read the introduction to the question, so I will not repeat it. Some of my questions are similar to those of Mr Van Peteghem. What is the government's position on the self-proclaimed presidency of Guidó? How is this consistent with the statement made by Mrs Mogherini, High Representative for the European Union's foreign and security policy? The question of the position in the UN Security Council and the assessment of the Belgian diplomatic post on the ground is also in line with Mr Van Peteghem's question. Will this issue be dealt with in the Security Council? What position will Belgium take there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u27	Deputy Prime Minister, I am going to ignore the situation that everyone is aware of and that you probably have before you. So I come directly to the questions I want to ask you. What is the latest information you have on the situation in Venezuela? While President Maduro has rejected the ultimatum put forward by several European countries asking him to call elections and new demonstrations are planned in the coming days, are there any meetings between European Foreign Ministers? Has our country been led to take a position in this context within the United Nations Security Council? Can you, in particular, give me a debriefing on the meeting held yesterday? According to several sources, it appears that Acting President Guaidó sends ambassadors to the main European countries. Is Belgium concerned? If so, what will be the government's attitude to this dual representation? If my information is correct, Maduro's regime ambassador is still on duty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u28	The situation in Venezuela is particularly worrying. The country is in a serious humanitarian crisis under which the population is increasingly suffering. As can be seen from the events of the past few days, tensions in the country and on the border are increasing. Despite the great needs of the people, the Venezuelan authorities refuse to allow humanitarian aid to enter the country. In response to the latest events, the European Union called for aid to be released and refrained from violence against the population. The European Union also reiterated its call for a political solution to the crisis by organising free and fair elections. There is therefore a strong consensus within the EU on how to tackle the crisis and Belgium fully supports it. For most of the countries of the region and Europe, including Belgium, the democratically elected President of the National Parliament of Venezuela, Juan Guaidó, is the person appointed to realize the democratic transition in the country through the rapid organization of elections. The ultimate goal must be reconciliation within Venezuelan society and sustainable economic reconstruction. Our country supports the establishment, at the initiative of the European Union, of an international contact group that would contribute to the creation of conditions conducive to a peaceful democratic transition. All these elements are also raised by Belgium in the United Nations Security Council in New York, where the situation in Venezuela has been discussed several times, as was the case yesterday. In this debate in New York, Belgium highlighted three aspects: a call for restraint and de-escalation, the importance of full humanitarian access in accordance with humanitarian principles and the need to launch without delay a peaceful political process that opens the way for free and transparent elections that allow people to express themselves freely and lead to reconciliation in Venezuela. Meanwhile, a Security Council resolution is also being negotiated in New York. Belgium participates actively and in close consultation with the European allies in this negotiation, stressing the above-mentioned points of view. However, in order for a resolution to be adopted, there must be unanimity in the Security Council. However, given the position of Russia and China which regard the situation in Venezuela as an internal matter, it is unlikely that the UN Security Council will be able to reach an agreement on this resolution. As far as Russia is concerned, we have been seeing a growing presence in the region for a number of years, mostly responding to political or economic crises and supporting governments that are less well placed with the United States. Military cooperation and the sale of arms are important levers with which Russia is trying to exert its influence. Some also see the Russian presence in Latin America as part of a broader policy to break through its international isolation as a result of the annexation of Crimea. In any event, Belgium will continue to closely monitor the situation in Venezuela and, together with our partners in the EU and the UN VR, ensure that the situation in the country remains high on the international agenda and that our objective, in particular a peaceful democratic transition for the benefit of the Venezuelan people, is pursued further. I had the opportunity to address the crisis in Venezuela at length during my visit to Washington, D.C., both the Pentagon and the White House or the State Department, at the end of last week. The tension is particularly strong at Venezuela's borders, you will have noticed. We are trying to maintain a common line between the States of the European Union and certainly the five members of the European Union who currently sit on the Security Council, namely the two permanent members, France and Great Britain, and the three non-permanent members, Poland, Belgium and Germany. We will continue to monitor the situation very closely. It is a very serious humanitarian crisis, not only within the country but also outside, with probably more than 3.5 million refugees in neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u29	Anyone else want to replicate? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1049x.u30	I should also like to note that the questions have been raised. Mrs Bellens' 28733, 28732 and 28734 are converted into written questions. That completes our agenda.
