ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u2	By letter dated 31 October 2019, Mr.Charles Michel presented his resignation as a member of the House of Representatives with immediate effect. By letter dated 31 October 2019, Mr Charles Michel offered his resignation as a member of the Chamber of Representatives with immediate effect. He also announced that he would take up his duties as President of the European Council from 1 December 2019. It also announces its position as President of the European Council on 1 December 2019. The alternate to replace him is Mr. Vincent Scourneau, an alternate for the electoral district of Brabant Wallon. The successor who will replace him is Mr Vincent Scourneau, successor to the Walloon-Brabant constituency. Today we therefore proceed to the admission and swearing-in of this alternate. We shall therefore now proceed to the admission and swearing-in of this successor. The credentials of this alternate were validated in our meeting on 20 June 2019. The credentials of this successor were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I would remind you that the members elected by the electoral colleges in the French-speaking region are part of the French linguistic group. I would remind you that Members elected by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area belong to the French language group. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr. Vincent Scourneau to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Vincent Scourneau to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u3	Mr. Vincent Scourneau will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Vincent Scourneau will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u4	Mrs De Block has been appointed Minister for Asylum and Migration in the government to answer the questions. However, I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister. Questions were addressed to both members of the government. Madam Prime Minister is present at this meeting. We are going to listen to the questioners and Mrs De Block will answer the questions. I leave it to the Prime Minister's wisdom to take the floor if she so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u5	On the eve of Truce, an asylum centre in our country was set on fire. That is a tragic, disturbing scoop for Belgium. Some reactions to social media were downright rancid and gruesome. Some even regretted that the asylum centre was empty. Colleagues, an asylum centre is actually a symbol of a model of society: hospitality, solidarity with those fleeing war and violence, commitment to international law and the rule of law, which is sometimes harsh, but with proper, objective procedures being followed. When the asylum centre was on fire, our society was also on fire. Let us collectively condemn this as a Parliament. A coalition of humanity is needed today. Not a majority, not an opposition, but a full and full Parliament condemning this act of aggression against asylum seekers. With our group, we are asking the government of current affairs for a clear position on this. When a new asylum centre is opened in a neighbourhood, we also call for attention to be paid to consultation, involvement and participation of local residents. We understand that locals sometimes feel worried. We must take this concern seriously, and we must be able to respond to it. Finally, I see an urgent challenge for some colleagues in the Chamber to look in the mirror. Here in the plenum are arsonists of society, no doubt. The political party protesting against an asylum centre with the slogan "Protect our people" is not innocent. It acts as if asylum seekers are criminals, as if we are supposed to protect our society from asylum seekers. Such a language encourages aggression. Whoso soweth hatred, reapeth abomination and violence. The history books are full of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u6	Madam Secretary, the fire that was set in Bilzen last Sunday night is a criminal and reprehensible act that has put people at risk, not least the firefighters of my city, but also the locals. For the Flemish interest it is clear: violence can never be the solution to a political problem. The act is not only reprehensible, but also worrying, as it raises suspicions about asylum and migration policy, which has a counterproductive effect. While the investigation into the arson is ongoing and everyone is waiting for more clarity, some already seem to know for sure who is behind the act. Your party colleague and fellow Minister for Collaboration said yesterday clearly that this is a matter of political terror, without any evidence whatsoever. He insults myself, my colleagues and more than 800 000 voters. I find this extremely inappropriate and scandalous behaviour for everyone, but certainly for a minister in office. Speaking of brutalisation of society and stigmatisation. Madam Secretary, I hope you will show more class in your reply. What raises particular questions in this and other dossiers is the procedure used in relation to the introduction of additional asylum centres. My city council was informed on Thursday 24 October with a sec phone call by you that the center would be there. The information meeting of the Red Cross for the neighborhood residents will not be held until Thursday 21 November, exactly a month later. There's a total lack of communication. Is it then to be surprised that neighborhood residents get frustrated when they constantly bump into a wall of silence? Madam Secretary, what progress has been made with the investigation into the circumstances of the arson? What is the state of play regarding the opening of the asylum centre? Do you, as Minister, take note of the concerns expressed about the lack of communication and the need for public participation in the integration of asylum centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last weekend a border was crossed. The arrival of an asylum centre often raises questions for people: how many people are coming? Will my neighborhood be safe? What's gonna change? Those questions must always be answered. That answer cannot be that political parties sitting in the hemisphere with taxpayers' money are carrying out hate campaigns on social media. You can't do that. The answer to questions and concerns can only be a dialogue. Talk, talk, talk. People can freely express their opinions. People can freely express their displeasure, but within the limits of our democracy. With last weekend's violence, that border was crossed. With the arson, that line was crossed. With the hateful reactions that border was crossed. They have no place in our society. I shall even say more: using force to express a political opinion is simply terrorism. Point on the line. It is therefore a good thing that the public prosecutor takes the facts seriously, condemns and investigates them. Madam Secretary, what lessons do you draw from this? Do you think that the neighbourhood should be better informed when an asylum centre arrives? What are the concrete consequences for the current and future asylum centres? Will additional security measures be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u8	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the burning of this future asylum centre could only be possible because of a climate of hatred and fear that has been developed, maintained and propagated by some politicians and by certain parties. This fire would not have been possible without repeated campaigns by some politicians. I am thinking in particular of the former Secretary of State for Asylum, Theo Francken. We remember this image of a black man shot by a suction cup that he found funny enough to reproduce on social media. We will also recall that criminals have been removed from detention centres to place migrants there, suggesting that migrants were more dangerous than criminals. Today, we also know the abhorrent campaign of the Vlaams Belang, illustrated by the hand of a black man who closes himself on the face of a white child. That is what led to this move to action, and that is the political responsibility behind these xenophobic actions. But that would not have been possible without a lack of anticipation from your government, minister. Indeed, we knew that it was more difficult to reopen reception centres than to leave them open, while the needs in this area were well-known. So it's a lack of foresight. Madam Minister, I appeal to you to ensure that there is a sense of responsibility, dignity and hospitality so that the perpetrators of these criminal acts are prosecuted, that security in these detention centres is ensured and that a responsible, dignified and humane policy is ultimately pursued in terms of the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u9	Mr President, Minister, like many people in our country, we are shocked by what happened in Bilzen. It was a cowardly act to set fire to an asylum centre, where families with children would also be sheltered. On the weekend in which tolerance was advocated in every municipality in Belgium, in the context of the celebrations for 11 November. However, we have also been struck and shocked by the reactions of some people, that night on the spot in Bilzen but also and certainly on the social and other media. We want to reject that very strongly. When we look at the figures of the Commissioner-General concerning the increasing number of refugees, we see that the pressure on the reception network is increasing. This increasing pressure automatically leads to the many cities and municipalities where initiatives were taken by you. We note that, in certain places, the communication and information of local authorities was only very brief in advance. However, we believe that those local authorities, lectures and mayors, who have a good touch with the environment, can work perfectly with your services to give good information to the residents and to find a certain basis for support. If that asylum centre finally gets there, what about the security of the buildings themselves? We read that you think of cameras or private security companies, which is of course necessary, both for the residents and future residents. Madam Secretary, what are the specific plans for Bilzen? How do you deal with the rising demand for shelters? How do you handle the protests? How are you going to set up a good cooperation or improve cooperation with the local authorities, the mayors, to further improve that support?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, my question is not about the Bilzen fire, and I am sorry that my question has been added to this series of questions. I hope that the Minister will also give a concrete answer to my question on another subject. Madam Minister, in the meantime, it is a regular agreement that I have to question you every week in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u11	Mr Van Langenhove, if you do not want your question to fit in with this series of questions, because your question is about something else, then it seems logical to me that we should deal with your question separately. Isn't your question about the Bilzen fire?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u12	No, my question is not about Bilzen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u13	In that case, I will give you the floor for your oral question immediately after the debate on this issue. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u14	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u15	Mr Dedecker, would you like to speak in this connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u16	Mr President, I too have a question for the Minister. The question, however, concerns both aspects, since I believe that one cannot be seen separately from the other. The Bilzen fire is also a result of the current asylum policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u17	Mr Dedecker, I assume you are not speaking on behalf of Mr Van Langenhove. You have a question about both aspects. If you agree, your question will be retained in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u18	Mr President, I think Mr Van Langenhove is enough to defend himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u19	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u20	I am concerned about the fact that the question is being forwarded. My question was addressed to Minister De Block, not Prime Minister Wilmès. I have a mixed question which concerns both aspects. That is why I regret the order of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u21	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Dedecker. Mr Van Langenhove, you will be raising your question immediately after the debate on the Bilzen fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u22	Minister, this fire is a grievous act for social cohesion, living it together, but it is also the witness of a heavy time, when identity has become the receptacle of all fears. Of course, we expect strong words of condemnation from you, both on the fire itself and on the surges of hatred on social networks. But more than that, I would like to stress how much this is the testimony of a time when the alien or the migrant is assimilated to an enemy, to an invader, even when he is an asylum seeker who comes to seek refuge at home. It is a time when words gradually lead to deeds. This unspeakable act reminds us that the fight against racism is not just words. They are also, resolutely, acts. In 2001, almost 20 years ago, the World Conference against Racism was held in Durban; I was there. I have heard Belgium, like other countries, commit to making an inter-federal plan to combat racism. This government, as well as those that preceded it, has failed to draw up this plan. I have two very specific questions for you and for the government, minister. The Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating the fire. That's very good. But next to that, is the government considering filing a complaint with a civil party constitution? He has the right to do so. That would be an extremely strong signal. Secondly, although in day-to-day affairs, could the government consider relaunching negotiations to conclude this inter-federal anti-racism plan? You can do it. In matters of urgency, you have the right to conclude files that you have begun. You have regional governments to work with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I actually feel sorry for you. It was less than a month ago that we were standing here and then it was 39 people who had left for England along Zeebrugge and had died in the meantime. It was about those transmigrants back then. We've been a month and nothing has happened in the meantime. In fact, it is so bad that the previous government provided reception for transmigrants at the 127bis reception centre of Steenokkerzeel, but no one is there now. Meanwhile, you're looking for new places. Nothing has changed in other areas, ladies and gentlemen. To my surprise, you adopted a resolution yesterday to open the borders even further while 39 people have already died in Zeebrugge. Madam Minister, we have now become champions in attracting new asylum seekers. Last Tuesday 275 were registered and we are European champions with an increase of 18% a year. In Germany, the number of asylum seekers has fallen by 8%. You must therefore look for new asylum centres, because the law does not change. We keep mopping with the tap open. You know that I come from a municipality where there has been an asylum centre for 20 years. Everyone will remember Sun and Sea. We are as far away as we were then. After all, we continue to play a political game here. Soon it won't be about the fire. It'll be about accusing each other. This is about right and left. In my municipality, we have twenty years of experience in this field. Perhaps people should start listening to the people. What's happened now is criminal. In my view, the culprit should be appointed by the Justice Department, but not here in Parliament by blaming the opponents. After all, one is innocent until proven guilty. Madam Secretary, you should listen. If one wants to plant a centre, one cannot simply impose it from above. We must also listen to the people. I'll tell you an anecdote. I also listened to that woman who said about the retirement home that she used to have to pay EUR 1,600 a month to put her mother there, while the government now has 32,000 euros a month auction to house people who haven't contributed anything to society. Listen to that, too, instead of constantly playing the blackbird through here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u24	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, November 11th, Truce, is a day when we remember, among other things, that many people in the past fled the horror of wars. On the eve of November 11th, the flames went through the roof of a building in Bilzen. At first glance, it looked like an ordinary fire, but it was something else. The fire turned out to be on fire. It was an attack on the values we stand for. The elected should condemn this act unanimously. I hear this is happening, too. It is a time when we must show humanity and solidarity. We help people in need. People on the run, we offer bed, bath and bread until there is clarity about their statute. We can differ on asylum policy. There is something to be said about asylum policy. This is how Europe fails in the common approach. However, we do not attack people. We must strongly condemn such actions against asylum seekers and other people. In this hemisphere there are a lot of local administrators. Local administrators know that the arrival of an asylum centre often does not receive applause. People have questions about that. They even show fear. No one denies that, but at such a time we must dare to show political courage. It is good that all governments have shown their willingness to join forces. Minister Somers promised yesterday to support the municipalities in their approach. We welcome that, of course. Municipalities can also help create a basis for support. With dialogue and fall and rise, they can ensure that there is support. Fortunately, the vast majority of the population share this view. I therefore hope that all of us together can condemn the statements made in Bilzen immediately after the fire and then on social media. Madam Secretary, on behalf of the federal government, will you condemn that attack and support the Bilzen community to process that incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u25	Mr President, I will try to stay within the speaking time. You know that this is not easy for us, Limburgers. We just need a little more time than others to tell us the same thing. There is something else we have in common, Mr President, and that is that we are proud Limburgers. Although that gave me a double feeling this week. Our label "Limburg hospitality" showed very little left. Mrs De Block, when I opened The Importance of Limburg this morning, I was a bit happier once again when I saw that 97% of the Flemings disapprove of malice, that arson. I grew up as a child of an immigrant miner in a multicultural neighborhood in Genk. We were raised with people from different cultures, but there was no sense of insecurity at all. Our analysis was very clear:siamo tutti neri. Everyone in the mine was black. Today I see nothing on the social media but hate-sowing and divisiveness. When one sows division, one reaps hatred. This week we were overwhelmed with Twitter messages from right-wing political Twitter kings who said that they are not the cause of all this. Mrs Ponthier, how can you say that when your party has sponsored EUR 600 for the actions against the asylum centre? How can you say that when your party constantly asks you to clean up parks? Then how can you claim that you had nothing to do with that? Mrs. Ponthier, I have an assignment for you. Let me make this clear once again. You said earlier that only extreme right-wing people set the fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u26	Mr Colebunders, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u27	Mrs Ponthier, your party has, however, burned the ideological match. That is the clarity of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u28	Mr. Colebunders, your time is up. You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u29	Mr President, I will conclude in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u30	You don't have to finish right now, but you have to finish now. You've been speaking for over two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u31	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, it is easy to pursue an antisocial policy when you constantly make the mistake of others. It used to be the Walen; now it's the refugees. Who will it be tomorrow? That is why I would have liked to put a question to the Prime Minister, Mr Wilmès. However, since she could not or would not answer... remain seated, Mrs De Block...................................................................................................................................................................................... Firstly, does the government take responsibility for the social misery created by its policy and for the hatred which is needed for such acts? Secondly, when will there finally be an action plan against the extreme right-wing hatred and the ditto violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u32	Mr Colebunders, I indicated at the beginning of the sitting that, contrary to what was first announced, the Prime Minister had insisted on being here and that she would take the floor shortly in the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, demonstrations by some Members against the establishment of a future asylum centre, the arson of this asylum centre, people who then rejoice at this fire, regretting that the future centre was empty, it is not my country, it is not our country! My country, our country, is the one that founded Europe, which signed all the basic texts that ensure human rights and their equality; it is the one that, a few months ago, went to Marrakech to sign the Migration Pact; it is the one that organises in the best possible way – progress must be made in this area – the reception of refugees and refugee candidates; it is the women and men who, on a voluntary basis or at the request of the State, provide daily reception for people, families who have fled war and violence. Some colleagues have decided to turn this issue into their own business. Some are trying to become popular on the backs of people who are suffering and simply seeking peace and survival. This is outrageous! As politicians, we must take our part. We must explain, reassure and organize this reception effectively and voluntarily. And that is in particular what we are asking you, Madam Minister. In fact, we are asking you two things: short- and medium-term measures, the time you will still be a minister, so that integration, reception, the organisation of centres for refugees and asylum seekers can be carried out in full safety and respect, and, above all, on behalf of the government, in the presence of the Prime Minister, a clear condemnation of what happened in Bilzen and which shames our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u34	Colleagues, the arson a few days ago at the future asylum centre in my city was a criminal act. Many of the reactions that followed were below all levels, let's be clear. As far as we are concerned, there can be no discussion about this either. I would particularly like to talk today about what preceded it. As Mr Dedecker said, of course everything is connected. Mrs De Block, you have undoubtedly seen the figures in De Tijd today. There is a strong influx in this country, while our neighbouring countries are facing a much lower influx or even measuring a drop in influx. That's the context. So this is not just a geopolitical story, it is also a consequence of Mrs De Block's policy. This has consequences and we have experienced these effects in Bilzen in the past few days. I insist that this place is a wrong choice. One makes a bad decision over the heads of those who have to deal with it, without anyone having the courage to come and explain it, without anyone coming to outline the context, without anyone bringing nuance into the story. No one comes here to answer questions that are perfectly normal in such a situation. No one deals with the uncertainties and fears that such decisions entail and that are purely human. Nobody. Today we are three weeks after we had to hear the news about the centre via the newspaper. We still haven't seen anyone in Bilzen. Where have you been for the past three weeks, when we in Bilzen begged for answers? We didn't see anyone. A representative of Fedasil came on the radio to tell us that the city of Bilzen would indeed have communicated with its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u35	Think of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u36	I am a Limburger, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u37	Then we have to insert a separate Rule into the Rules of Procedure for Limburgers. I don't agree with that. You've spoken for over two minutes, so ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u38	Mr President, I will conclude. That statement about the communication of the city of Bilzen was wrong. The Red Cross responds very little empathically to a number of concerns, for which we should be aware. Then comes Mr Somers. He sees that it's getting federally jammed, and he's taking over the federal stage in Bilzen. Since Bilzen's city administration is not able to communicate with its own residents, he then sends a liaison officer. But, Madam Secretary, we don't need a liaison officer. We need politicians who accept their executive responsibility and who come to explain why what decision has been taken and who seek support, otherwise we will not get there. Madam Minister, in view of the figures in De Tijd, do you agree with me that there can be a reversal and a decline in this country too? Secondly, are you prepared to re-establish the necessary thresholds that Mr Francken had put in place today rather than tomorrow and ensure that the problem is resolved at the root?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u39	First, I give the floor to Minister De Block and then to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u40	Mr President, it is the ladies who defend democracy here. Mr Raskin, the reception centre in Bilzen was chosen because it was originally a well-equipped rest home, where we can accommodate people with physical complaints who cannot walk up stairs or play football in the garden. This was also communicated to the municipal board of the first telephone call. As always, I informed the mayor concerned the day after the contract was concluded. He immediately informed his college and his municipal board that afternoon. So the mayor can't be blamed. During that week, there were contacts with the Red Cross, Fedasil and the city council and a roadmap was agreed on how the neighborhood residents would be informed. The mayor also stated that he was impressed by the expertise of Fedasil and the Red Cross. A neighborhood meeting was also planned. It would be agreed with the neighbourhood on the way in which dialogue would be kept open after the opening of the centre, through, among other things, a central point of contact and a weekly consultation. That is not what we have been waiting for. They chose to set the building on fire after a party. Mr Dallemagne, you're asking me questions about the judicial investigation. I'm not a lawyer, but I can tell you that I can't communicate anything about this open investigation for arson. Nothing is yet known about the perpetrators or their motives. What I do know is that Fedasil has been receiving more and more hate messages for months, just like his partner the Red Cross and their employees, mostly through social media, but also through organised protests. Don't be a political virgin now, Mrs Ponthier, you've been yelling there too. So please, be a little brave about that. If you can stand there and yell, you can admit it here. One of the meetings in Zoltleeuw called for the centre to be set on fire, preferably with the asylum seekers in it. We could hear and read that too. Last week we saw how few on the social media encouraged and glorified those gruesome facts. Those are the ones who are here to say that the arson is actually inappropriate and should not have happened. I think we should make a statement here today: this is about it, this is not admissible, it stops here and now. We must all defend that position, in the village street, in the Rue de la Loi, but certainly in Parliament, because we are democratically elected. This is about the fundamental values of a democratic hemisphere. This is about protecting our citizens. This is about feeding intolerance between our citizens. Do we want to live in such a country in Flanders? Do we want to operate in this way? It is not surprising that people are worried and afraid of the future. Our employees are afraid to go to work, they're afraid to go home, they're afraid to smell a barbecue, their roof's on fire. That is also the reality of every day. I have given them the advice of any threat, and Mr Francken knows that, we also get a lot of it to the police and the police every time, so that we can make an inventory of it. In the light of the past incident, I call on everyone to play each other not the blackbird, but to unconditionally distance themselves from such violence. We must do this in words and, above all, in deeds, in the Rue de la Loi, if there is a centre anywhere, Mrs Ponthier. I see you nodding and I will keep you that promise, even in the future. Mr Dedecker, you have so much experience with Sun and Sea. I remember the great concern when Sun and Sea, which was previously a holiday park, became an asylum centre. By the way, it might be said that you chose to get Sun and Sea to you, because you have moved. It's true that a mayor can do a lot about that. I believe that the mayor of Bilzen from the beginning tried to avoid discord in his congregation. I really do. I am pleased that Mr Somers was also willing to support the municipal administration. I think that's a help. He is for a close society and he has his part to play in it. Well, that's what he did. If you are pissed, Mr Raskin, you can always volunteer there to build bridges between people. Frankly, I do not like the whole issue for the people of Bilzen, not for those who are now suspected, but also for those who volunteer, such as the owner, who saw her life's work in flames, or her family. That's not nice. The atmosphere in Bilzen will not be strong today, and I think that is the worst for the inhabitants. I'm glad there haven't been any casualties, not even with the firefighters. They have put out a fire at risk for their lives and know that a fire is worse than a spontaneous fire. By the way, there were many means found there that could have caused the whole neighborhood to go up in flames. Fortunately, that was avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u41	Mr President, on the night of Sunday to Monday, a fire broke out in a future asylum centre in Bilzen. Fortunately, no victims are to be deplored. This has led to a chain of hatred on social networks and cannot be accepted. An investigation is under way. Given the importance of the facts and the serious reaction to them, I wanted to attend the plenary session today. The number of questions clearly shows how shocked we were by this event. Like any democrat, I will continue to strongly condemn all acts of violence and hatred. Our democracies are marked by intangible values of respect, dialogue and openness. These values must continue to guide us. Incomprehension can never result from violence in any form. Misunderstandings must never lead to violence in any form whatsoever. The democratic debate and dialogue must be encouraged to break the dynamics that people set against each other. It is only through dialogue and education that we can build this co-existence. I hear the request of some Members of Parliament who appeal to all of its members to condemn this type of behaviour unanimously and to promote, always unanimously, the values of openness, respect and dialogue that are ours. I can assure you that you will find a government that shares this call and will support you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the floor for a brief reply. I should like to warn you that in two weeks' time there will be a delay here for the speaking time for all Members, including Limburgers; I am sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and Minister De Block for their clear condemnation, their clear words from the heart that testified to authenticity. Thanks for that, that was obvious. At the same time, however, this is a challenge that the government is far beyond in current cases. The next government will no longer be able to hide, but will have to provide a binding answer that reassures people in their questions about migration and society. The government must listen to people's concerns, but it must defend our model of society with pride and strength at all times. This includes the task of explaining our asylum and migration policies properly and also of disabling lies, such as lies about mass influx and about asylum seekers as criminals. Colleagues of the Flemish Interest, I will always oppose what you say and the style of your statements. However, I will never ignore your constituents, because they can always contact our party with their concerns. Let's get that straight. Mr President, we need to capture people's concerns and give them a stylish response to them. A recent survey shows that 97% of the Flemings are completely opposed and protesting against the arson in that asylum centre, which is encouraging. The Flemish Interest can therefore spend tens of thousands of euros on hate campaigns on Facebook, on the street there is a coalition of humanity. Now we need a coalition of humanity in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that speaking time for the reply is one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u45	Madam Prime Minister and Minister, thank you for your answers. Allow me to respond to some of the things that have been said here. First, I'd like to quote some punctual data. You say the mayor briefed the city board, but that didn't happen. I think my colleague from Bilzen can formally confirm that here. We have the item on the Bilzen City Council, because otherwise we may not have had any details until today. You're talking about a party when there was a fire, but I don't know what party you're talking about. The fact that reception would be provided for disabled asylum seekers is a detail which we are now hearing and which has not been communicated to the Bilzen City Council. So I think there's a lot of limp in the matter. Mr President, I would like to respond to the selective indignation of some of my fellow Members. I believe that peaceful action is still permitted in the democracy that you and I stand for, Madam Secretary, but a peaceful action here is treated as an arson, which is a criminal fact. That disgusts me. I think it's past madness. I want to make an effective protest that you have the courage to express it here. Madam Secretary, adjust your procedures. Please consult with the residents and the board before the decision is taken. Start by listening to the people who reject and criticize your policy. They have their belly more than full of the ongoing flow of asylum to this country. Maybe you should start by listening to the party that defends all those people. They feel left to their fate by your policy. They feel misunderstood. Begin listening to the Flemish Interest, which has warned for years that the absorption capacity for more migration has been exceeded. We will continue to wage the democratic resistance to migration invasion, always and everywhere, with arguments, but always peaceful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u46	Madam Minister, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for your clear statements. I wish I could say that the whole hemisphere today underlines that violence and hate-sowing cannot happen. However, reality is different. The previous speaker pointed it out. When people are worried, one cannot, on the one hand, call for dialogue and, on the other hand, say to people that migration is a bad story and stir people up and raise their fears even more. It's from two cases one. Madam Secretary, you have given a clear signal. It is the duty of all democratic parties not to participate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u47	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, Minister, I sincerely thank you for your very worthy words. You said, Madam Minister, that the ladies are defending democracy. You will have the men by your side to defend this democracy, be sure! This has happened well recently in Senonchamps near Bastogne, in Spa, in Jalhay, in Gent, in Leopoldsburg. You've moved around most of the time. This happened less well in Zoutleeuw and Bilzen, not because of the mayors but because of a climate that has settled, because some today claim to create hatred and fear of the other. We are slowly moving towards an abyss where the possible killing of foreign persons could be justified in a context. We must pay close attention to this violence that is emerging in our societies. I appeal to all of us to ensure that our democracies do not slip into this abyss in the future. We do not know what we will be and where we will arrive with such an evolution. I urge that we save our values and our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u48	Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister, thank you very much for the very clear condemnation of what has happened in Bilzen, but also of the statements made by some who cannot accept. It is all hands on deck to respond to the refugee crisis. I am pleased to hear that communication with local authorities is being taken very seriously. We would like to call for this to continue and, if possible, to make more use of it. Good communication and good cooperation in the field can only benefit the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u49	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your condemnation and these very fair and dignified words. I didn't expect any less from you, but I'm still expecting a little more. I made two very specific suggestions. I repeat, because I didn't get an answer. On the one hand, I propose that you consider very seriously the filing of a complaint against X in civil proceedings by which you would demonstrate that you cannot with impunity, when you are the Belgian State, allow a centre for asylum seekers to be set on fire, which is detrimental to our community as a whole. On the other hand, I ask you to really relaunch the negotiations for an inter-federal plan to combat racism. If national cohesion is really what you are aiming for, you have the opportunity to work on it now, even in day-to-day business, with the Regions and Communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u50	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the clear answer. I would like to make a proposal to this honored meeting. I have been sitting here for 20 years and the debate we are having today is the same as in 1999. All we have done is have a debate on whether or not to keep the tap open. Today we literally need the tap water to put out. What do we do now? We blame each other and play a political game. Instead of playing that political game, we could also pass laws. We could look beyond the border, because I have just pointed out that the figure in Germany has fallen by 8%. Look what Mrs. "Wir Buying Tie" has done. Look at the Netherlands, where it has also fallen by 5%. Take a look at these billings. This is a collective responsibility of Parliament, because we make the laws. We make the laws that have led us to have today's state. Well, we have to shut down the faucet for our own people, against damaging our own prosperity, but also for the losers who come across the sea and crawl into trucks, in order to deprive them of false hope. That is your responsibility, that is a collective responsibility, and that is something quite different from playing each other on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u51	Madam Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, asylum and migration are a very emotional issue. We've noticed that here today. It also affects a lot of people and rightly receives a lot of political attention. However, our starting point has always been a rigorous but humane approach to the problems. We must never attack people in need, not even as politicians. There are parties in this hemisphere who share local communities with tax money, who sow hatred and discord in our villages and cities, on Facebook and elsewhere. They're looking for problems and they're magnifying them. However, I am very pleased to hear that the government, like myself, condemns these acts and is on the side of those who ask for a humane approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I saw that your words came from deep and were sincere. Perhaps you never thought a PVDA man would agree with you, but here I say thank you. They didn't make it easy for you either. Of course, Mr Francken's policy to reduce the number of reception places has not helped. We need to open it again now, then we need to close it again, then we need to open it again; it is a certainty that there will be a protest. Integration requires continuity and it is not there now. We also want to move away from these major centres. That's obvious. Small reception initiatives are much better for integration. And listen carefully, they're also cheaper. We have to laugh about this. The same right-wing parties that do not want multinationals to make a fair contribution are voting in favour of bombing other countries, are opposed to development cooperation and do not want anything to be done about climate change. It is those parties that take care of those refugees, let that be clear. And then they turn people against each other. The only ones laughing in their face are the multinationals and the 1% most wealthy. Racism is a crime and leads to fascism. We continue to stand up to it. That is why I say yesterday, today and certainly tomorrow:siamo tutti neri.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u53	Mr Colebunders, I congratulate you on your maiden speech in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no nuance is possible. There's no excuse to find. No statistics can explain. There's just to condemn. Say kan niet! That's not acceptable! That is what we asked you to say, Madam Prime Minister, Mrs De Block. You did, and we thank you for that. Most colleagues have also done so. We thank them just as much. What happened in Bilzen is not my country! This is not our country! Our country is one of respect and solidarity. He is the one who respects international rules and welcomes people who flee war and violence with dignity. I hope, minister, that you will continue to do your job as long as your government is in business. Above all, I hope that a future government can form, whose words of respect and solidarity will be both the objective and the method.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u55	Madam Secretary, I take a number of things from your answer. The step-by-step plan you are referring to is a turtle step-by-step plan; the best is yet to come. We have not yet seen it in Bilzen. On October 25th, I read the news on an empty stomach in the newspaper, on November 21st, next week, we get information. The file is completely mismanaged. Nor have I received any answers to my questions, so I would like to urge you once again to reduce the influx. The numbers can go down, Theo Francken has given you the handles. Please get on with it tomorrow. Finally, let the sad case, which Bilzen is today, lead to an adjustment of the decision-making and communication process, especially for cities and municipalities, such as Bilzen, where there is no strong leadership. You really need to take initiatives there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u56	We are done with this series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u57	Mr Van Langenhove's question about the peak in asylum applications deserves to be dealt with separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, it is now almost a fixed date for me to come and ask you here in plenary. Before we make this a cozy habit, I must remind you of the seriousness of the matter. If there were no weekly news reports showing how disastrous your asylum policy is coming to an end, I would not have to stand here today. During the last full policy year of the previous Secretary of State, 2018, the number of asylum applications increased by as much as 20%. The Fleming held his breath and hoped it wouldn't get any worse. But then you came to power, Mrs. De Block, and you continued the rise of the previous Secretary of State. This year we are seeing an increase again. There are a further 14% more asylum applications than in 2018. And to make matters worse, another record was broken in October: as many as 2,925 people applied for asylum in Belgium, while the number of applications for asylum in neighbouring countries is falling sharply in the Netherlands and Germany. As if all this is not enough, as if the influx is not yet large enough, as if people's discontent is not yet enough, more than half of our colleagues in this hemisphere voted for even more migration, for even more asylum applications, for a system that is no longer able to cope with the influx. History will be harsh in its assessment of the lack of responsibility of this hemisphere and its ministers. It is high time measures were taken to reduce inflow and, above all, to increase outflow. My questions to you, Madam Secretary, are as follows. Are you prepared to take urgent additional measures to curb the flow of asylum? If so, which one? Are you prepared to tighten up the rules on family reunification of recognised asylum seekers and thus reduce the time limit within which asylum seekers can make their family members come across without the traditional conditions to three months, as, moreover, is allowed by the EU, and as applied in other EU countries? Finally, how much capacity has been created in closed centres for forced return over the last five years? How much capacity is that today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u59	Mr President, Mr Van Langenhove, I do not need your questions to know that there is actually a higher influx, not only in our country but also in Europe. I do not criticize statistics in newspapers, but we have our own method of following them all. The number of asylum seekers is also rising in Germany and the Netherlands. If you compare this with the great peak that Germany has experienced after "Wir verkopen dass," then the figures are going down. Belgium is not the only country that would be flooded by asylum seekers. There has been a lower inflow over a very short period of time, but for one and a half years that inflow has been rising again. We also see this trend in Europe. Actually, those curves are similar. In anticipation of a new government, I am, after all, only a minister in current affairs, and we have chosen this solution. You are asking for new legislative initiatives. You have not been here very long, but you should know that this requires a government with full powers. We have chosen to strengthen our asylum authorities and have more files dealt with. One of the reasons is that people stay in care for too long because too few files are being dealt with. I asked for money for this in February. DVZ made no less than 3,600 decisions in October. The Commissioner-General also took 2,000 decisions. At last, therefore, we find that the number of decisions taken per month is higher than the inflow. However, this does not mean that we are already here. One swallow doesn't make spring. It does mean that more files are being dealt with, i.e. an increase of more than 50% compared to previous months. We will try to avoid opening up new centres, because we find that local resistance, especially in Saltleeuw and Bilzen, is high. However, we forget to mention that in many other places the reception is very good and does not experience the same resistance. However, this does not mean that we should not continue to engage in dialogue with the local residents concerned in places where there is resistance. Stop also saying that there are miracle solutions, such as illegal quotas or other unworkable measures that would make immortal ridicule and condemn us as some kind of human haters. In doing so, we would ignore the existence of the democratic rule of law in our country. Anyone who wants a different migration policy should not call outside Parliament to stop complying with the laws, but should try to find a democratic majority at national and European level to change it. That is the democratic path that I will continue to follow. It's not the simplest way. I'm always blamed for that, but I'll take that. It's the path I choose. It is the most sustainable and safest road. I would like to call on all politicians in this hemisphere, including you, to go that way. A rest home has been set on fire and you are the arsonist of our society. We're not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u60	Madam Secretary, you say I blame you, but it seems to me to be the other way around. You say that I am the arsonist, but if you had listened to the Flemish interest for 40 years, there would have been no fire at all. You seem to enjoy my statements, Mrs De Block, because you refuse to answer all my questions again and again. Don't worry. You say that you do not need my questions to realize that something is going wrong, but I will continue to ask my questions, because you are not taking any action. We won't wait. You say we have to wait for another government, but we cannot wait. This crisis is getting out of hand. You say that people must stay in asylum centres for too long. Then shorten the procedures. We have been in favour of this for a long time. Then do something about it. Mrs De Block, in your answers to the questions of the other colleagues, you said quite clearly that it ends here. I had hoped to hear that in response to my questions. Finally, tell all those people who are concerned about the asylum crisis that is raging in Belgium, but not in the rest of Europe, that it will stop here and that you will do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, when the e-cigarette appeared a few years ago, I immediately warned about the risks posed by these new products, but also that it was necessary to ensure that it remained a tobacco-free product. I had pleaded at the time to make it a product sold exclusively in pharmacy, to prevent it from becoming a catcher and recreational product. But the market lobby was the strongest, and the market grew incredibly. For several months, no less than 30 patients have died in the United States, and hundreds of cases of severe lung disease are clearly related to vaping, and it seems to be more particularly related to certain products. Since then, there has been no reaction from the Belgian authorities to what I consider to be a real public health problem. Of course, we have stricter legislation than in the United States, but it is in no way respected, Madam Minister, whether it is with regard to minors, with regard to nicotine in vaping, and whether it is on the Internet or in shops. We're in a situation where eye-catching, sexy vamps target especially young people and non-smokers. Consumer information is unreadable and inaccessible. A young man died when he had obviously consumed cannabidiol oil by vaping. It's time to wake up, it's time to react! Minister, do you confirm to me that this deceased young man had vapoted cannabidiol oil? Have any samples been taken? When will we get the results? It seems to me, given the seriousness of the situation, that the precautionary principle must be applied and that this type of product must be banned until proven otherwise. More generally, it seems to me essential to ensure strict compliance with the legislation, which is not the case today, on e-cigarette and reloading products, but also to re-establish it as a tobacco cessation aid product and not as a recreational product. It is essential to protect our young people and non-smokers. This is really a public health issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u62	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately 18-year-old Raphaël Pauwaert is, according to the doctors, the first vapedode in Belgium. As Mrs Fonck pointed out, in the United States the numerator is already at 39 dead. Both Raphael and the American victims reportedly caused the CBD filling. Madam Secretary, we must not end up in American situations. Indeed, in the United States, vaping has become a real epidemic among young people, even to the extent that in many American states e-cigarettes have already been temporarily banned. Two major problems are, in my opinion, the cause today. Firstly, the e-cigarette is deliberately made attractive to young people. There are numerous flavors, ranging from popcorn- over vanilla and mango- to sweets taste. This makes the e-cigarette particularly attractive, which puts its consumption in the elevator for young people worldwide. Secondly, the idea behind the e-cigarette was tobacco discouragement policy. The question is now more and more whether we choose between the plague or cholera, especially among young people. After all, we read in the media that the fumes of the e-cigarette contain heavy metals, such as nickel, tin and lead. The aromas can also be very toxic. I am thinking in particular of that deadly cocktail of the CBD filling in the e-cigarette. Madam Secretary, it is the responsibility of the government to regulate and strictly intervene on deadly products. That is why I would like to ask you the following questions. First, there is an opinion from the 2015 Supreme Health Council. It was already stated that it was impossible to assess the long-term impact of the e-cigarette. Isn't it time, five years later, to ask the Supreme Health Council for new advice again? Secondly, will you do something about the deadly aromas and CBD fillings, in order to limit them? Will you possibly argue for a temporary ban? That is in the interests of our young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u63	Mrs Fonck, it is true that, for some time now, information has come to us, from the United States, in particular about health problems and even deaths probably linked to the use of electronic cigarettes. As soon as I was informed, I asked my services to examine the situation more closely and to continue to follow it closely. The initial results of this review indicate that, in most cases, they are products from the United States. It also refers to products purchased from the black market or the use of liquids for clean-made electronic cigarettes. In many cases, large quantities of illicit substances had been added. In transposing our legislation, in which you were involved, we have strengthened a number of provisions. In our country, for example, it is forbidden for adjuvants such as CBD and others to be sold in shops. The products that are allowed in the United States are banned by our much stricter regulations. In addition, the vap shops are regularly checked here. We have already closed some of them and prevented the opening of new ones through the inspection services of the Public Health Office. We were informed that the treating doctors have a serious suspicion of a link between the severe pneumonia to which an 18-year-old young man died and the use of the e-cigarette. They make that link, because no other cause is found for such severe pneumonia in an 18-year-old person. By the way, I think it is appropriate to express my condolences to the family and friends of the young man who died from it. I believe that we must have the necessary respect for the family. We await the further development of the investigation into the precise circumstances that led to the death. For us, first of all, it is important to avoid another death. However, it is now too early, as the treating doctors say, to draw conclusions. However, it is good that the doctors have sent out a warning to indicate that the e-cigarette is not without danger. We have allowed the e-cigarette on the basis of an opinion on the market to get rid of smoking and we can see that there are results in this area. However, it is certainly not intended that those concerned continue to evaporate for the rest of their lives. Precisely because of the stricter transposition of the directive, there were several demonstrations at the time, one even on Sunday at my doorstep of at least a hundred vases, which caused a real cloud. That's funny and funny and can't hurt. In any case, our services will continue to make the necessary efforts in this regard. A more up-to-date opinion may be requested from the High Health Council, but we do not need to wait for the advice, which always takes a long time; we need to take action now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u64	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The public authorities have so far shown guilty laxity. Of course, our legislation is harsher than that of the United States, but, Madam Minister, it is in no way respected! Go to a vapshop, sign in in three seconds on the internet, you'll see it as fast as I do! We also have here the death of this young man. A terrible death. A death that is clearly related to certain components of recharging liquids. The precautionary principle in the field of public health requires you to prohibit this type of product until proven otherwise. You did not say that, but I hope that samples have been taken, that the products will be analysed in order to know exactly what they are and where they were purchased. More generally, you just said, you agree to take action. I have tabled a series of texts in the House to strengthen our legislation and, above all, to enforce it much more strictly in order to protect our young people and non-smokers. It's a matter of public health. That is what must take precedence. Neither the lobby nor the market should win!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u65	Madam Minister, caution is indeed the mother of the porcelain shop, but it seems that the e-cigarette is missing its role in tobacco discouragement policy because many young people are starting to vase, which is not the intention. Today Professor Tytgat also advocated more control. He considered it unacceptable to add additional resources and flavourings to the e-cigarette. We must act quickly on this. You will have to carry out an investigation on the basis of the checks so that we can ban certain flavourings, such as CBD fillings. These fillings are sold in several CBD shops. I know from Leuven that one in five has too high a THC content and that aromas have been found that exceed the allowed value 40 times. We must avoid this, so that there are no deaths, as we regret today in the case of Raphael.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u66	Minister, you announced a budget for health care 2020. It seems that it would be on your table, and would be announced for the Council of Ministers on 22 November next. You've drawn up this budget alone. You swept away the proposal on which mutualities, health care providers and health facilities had agreed. We've talked enough about it. I will not go back to your concept of consultation. It is now time to look to the future and turn to solutions. It is time to dispel the fog still hovering on the heads of health actors, and especially on those of patients. Here are my questions. What about the pharmaceutical sector's contribution to your budget? What about measures for patients? You have regretted, in the proposal made by the partners, the insufficient place reserved for patients. How do you correct the shot against patients? How do you correct the shooting against women? What about measures for free contraception for women up to the age of 25?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u67	Madam Minister, I planned a question for you in committee. This 2020 health budget had been agreed within the Insurance Committee, which brings together all health stakeholders. You sabotaged him. Coming from a government in day-to-day affairs, which is also a minority, it is quite surprising to see a minister do that. There is also a great deal of variability in the notion of day-to-day business depending on what suits you or doesn't work out within the government. An IKW took place yesterday. I don't know the outcome. We seem to be heading for a move to the government next week. My questions are very clear. First, what changes have you made to the budget with regard to the decision of the Insurance Committee? Then, do you commit to submit it to the government if, and only if, a consensus is reached between the health actors represented on the Insurance Committee? If I ask you today, it's to force you to take a stand. In a government in current and minority affairs, moreover, boycotting the health actors who, however, had largely agreed by laying down fundamental principles for the future and the patients would be totally indecent and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u68	Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Fonck, the law provides that while on the third Monday of October the General Council has not yet approved the budget, it is up to the Council of Ministers to adopt the powers to set the budget for health care. An intercabinets working group met yesterday to draw up a proposal for the health care budget for 2020. I cannot anticipate the decision of the Council of Ministers, but I can already give you the guidelines for this budget proposal. First, the funding burden for global management will not be increased by the federal authority in relation to the Monitoring Committee's report. Secondly, the 1.5% growth standard is fully granted without any structural blockage. Similarly, the indexing mass of 1.95 per cent is made fully available to all health-care providers and health-care institutions. In addition, we will provide tariff security to the patient. Once the budget is established, the medical-mutualist negotiations can begin. In addition, savings measures will be taken for a structural amount of EUR 161 million in the pharmaceutical sector, so that the patient's bill will automatically be reduced by EUR 65 million as of next year. Funding will be provided for the implementation of the health care budget. That means, Mrs Tillieux, that the proposal devotes EUR 65 million to patients. Savings measures will be taken for a structural amount of EUR 161 million per year in proprietary medicinal products. Finally, I have accepted the proposal adopted here, i.e. free contraception for women up to the age of 25. I am a Democrat and have respected the decision of the House. There is a balanced budget for 2020 and the main stakeholders in the insurance and health care consultation model have been informed of these guidelines.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u69	Minister, the budget proposal put forward by mutuals, health care providers, health facilities brought a series of warnings. There was unanimous support for the need to raise the standard of growth. They also unanimously defended a very clear and, above all, stable budgetary framework. They unanimously felt that a change of course was needed to ensure quality care accessible to all patients. All these elements will have to be taken into account. I note from now on the very important progress that I believe is being made: you will finally be drawing up budgets to implement the proposal of our group voted here last March to allow women up to 25 years of age to benefit from the free use of contraception. I think our fight paid off and you heard us. This is immense progress for women's rights and for their emancipation in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You recall what the law provides, but the law is silent when it comes to decisions that would be made by a minority government and in day-to-day affairs. You said you took your hand. That's right! You have decided alone, behind the backs of healthcare providers and major health actors. You're telling us everything's fine and you've informed the sector. You have certainly informed him, but have you consulted him? Did you get his agreement? At this point, I am told that there is no agreement on the part of the health actors. As far as contraception is concerned, it's a good idea. I have been pleading for this for years. But what about all the other measures that were important advances for patients (care for patients with cancer, better reimbursement at the dental level, measures relating to logopedia or paediatric psychiatry, etc.)?( )? Madam Minister, in view of the current affairs and the minority government, I invite you, once the decision is taken, to address the whole budget to Parliament so that we can conduct a detailed debate in committee, even if we do so with the health actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u71	Mr. President, Minister, you have initiated a major reform of the hospital landscape with a view to improving the quality of care and its efficiency through collaborations between hospitals in our country. This new organization, of course, requires collaboration between health professionals in hospitals, but also between the federal authority and federated entities in the areas of infrastructure, data sharing and others. We are talking here about a reform that will target more than 4.3 million hospitalizations each year. This is obviously extremely sensitive, especially in the light of the concerns, in particular of white coats, relating to hospital staff, the question of the needs of nurses, the upgrading of their status or the general and administrative organisation of the structures. By 1 January 2020, i.e. less than two months from now, the networks must be installed in accordance with clear principles. Each hospital, general and university, will have to be part of a locoregional clinical network, including community care while leaving the choice of hospital or hospital network to the patient. As this date approaches and regardless of the ongoing work on emergency funding for the end of 2019, could you provide an update on this issue? Specifically, can you tell us where we are in integrating hospital services into their respective networks? Is this structural reorganization likely to contribute, if not indirectly, to an improvement in the working conditions of nurses. Furthermore, is the question of geographical continuity guaranteed to date by the federated entities? Can you tell us if all the requirements are already guaranteed, such as the place of specialized care in each network? Are all the agreements necessary for certain so-called advanced care, such as oncology or cardiac care, concluded between all the networks? Finally, in operational terms, are data sharing systems already finalized, in particular through lump-sum payments and electronic records?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u72	Mr.President, Ms.Taquin, during the preparation of the law of February 28, 2019, the instrument that will be used to approve the locoregional clinical networks was discussed at length. It was finally agreed to approve the networks through the accreditation/accreditation instrument. This choice implies that the Communities take the initiative in the evaluation and approval of these networks. It is also the Communities which, through their accreditation policy, will have to ensure the success of locoregional collaborations between hospitals. One of the main objectives of my approach plan to hospital reform is to increase the rate of hospital bed supervision, which is one of the causes of too few nursing staff and the excessive fragmentation of these and other nursing staff at a large number of hospital sites. The quality of care can be improved by concentrating expertise on a limited number of sites. This will increase the number of health workers per site, which will have a positive impact on their working conditions. I note that your Community is in the process of overcoming the last obstacle in order to be able to install these networks at the beginning of 2020. In the meantime, as far as we are concerned, we have not wasted our time since working groups have been set up within the Public Health Administration. One of these groups is responsible for carrying out a study and organising a consultation on the need for emergency services. In this respect, I think I can say that there will be scientific support for the networks that will have to make decisions. But before you have the opportunity to make decisions, you have to know the contours of the networks. I heard and saw that this was the subject of progress in Wallonia. They were a little late, but they caught up with that delay. I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I think your department is making the necessary and useful contacts with the federated entities. It would seem, however, that the legislative adjustments needed to set up the networks are difficult to implement. I'm counting on you. Your message is quite positive in relation to this question. Thank you for your vision of a solid future for the hospital sector, to the benefit of the patient's health only. I know that you remain attentive, and I thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, there are now two joint questions to Minister Marghem. However, Mrs Marghem has informed me that she has been delayed. It will be available at any time, but if the Chamber agrees, we will first deal with the question addressed to Minister De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u75	Minister, several media reports today about the sharp increase in the revenues from the fight against social fraud: from 138 million euros in 2014 to no less than 272 million euros in 2018. If that is the case, we would very much like to congratulate you and all the fellow ministers involved. That is indeed an achievement of fury. It is also true that various measures taken by the Michael I administration had to contribute to a more effective fight against social fraud. In 2017, the inspection service of the RSZ was merged with the Social Inspectorate of the FPS Social Security. This morning on the radio, you said that this merger has contributed greatly to the increase in revenue. You will not be surprised that we share your view in this regard, namely that the integration of social inspection services should indeed ensure a more effective fight against social fraud, but we do see today that these various social inspection services are all working separately, fragmented and under the authority of different ministers, each with their own vision, their own way of working, their own management structure and so on. There's gotta be another way. Nor will you be surprised, because we have repeated this on several occasions. We refer to the Dutch example, where there has been a unified social inspection service since 2012. You're shaking no. Perhaps we should look over the wall together, but there it is with fewer public functions, with common databases, a joint action plan and so on. As a result of the news in the media and what you said on the radio this morning, I have two questions, Minister. In what way did the merger carried out in 2017 actually and concretely contribute to an increase in revenue from the fight against social fraud? Can you put an amount on that? I'm very interested in that. We recall that, despite repeated requests from our party, you are not in fact in favour of a unified social inspection service in our country, and that is why you have not taken any steps in this direction either. Have you changed your mind in that respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u76	Mr Anseuw, the government has always made the fight against social fraud a top priority. Together with the social inspection services, we have focused more on tackling major fraud, such as social dumping in construction and transport. Furthermore, we were going to tackle benefit fraud and push forward the fight against crime in large cities. The fight against residence fraud was also stepped up. That was our strategy. In addition, the inspection services were reformed, eight services became five. This was not just about the merger of the Social Inspectorate and the RSZ, there were many more changes. So was the back office digitized. These steps have contributed to increasing the numbers. As you said, it was EUR 138 million at the start of this government and, in the meantime, it is almost EUR 300 million. Over the entire period, more than EUR 1 billion of fraud was detected and also collected. Why isn't the big merger you're advocating a good idea? For three years now you have been leaning on that idea and you have been supported by a number of socialist leaders. But that doesn't work. If you look closely at the Dutch system, you will find that these databases are separate and that the inspection services can work side by side. People come to us to see how we do it, not the other way around. The Scandinavian countries do not even have social inspection services, where the police do the work on the ground. We keep the services partly separate, even though they are covered by the SIOD, which streamlines their actions. We are doing this because the fight against illegal posting is different from the fight against residence fraud, because tackling bankruptcies involves different legislation and requires specializations other than, for example, the detection of undeclared work. The regularisation of wages is a different competence than the detection of fictitious self-employed persons. Misuse of health insurance has nothing to do with criminal networks in cities. We respect the expertise of the various inspection services that remain very close to their core business. I will not, in any way, place the highly performing inspection service that collects the social contributions, billions a year, anywhere else. I don't think that's a good idea at all. This would certainly not benefit the fight against fraud in the field. What we absolutely must do in the future is work together even more. You have seen that this week we have concluded a protocol between police, justice and social inspection services. Information is being exchanged and a European database will be created to gain direct access to data in order to speed up the detection of illegal postings in our country. I have been advocating this for years, since I was active in the European Parliament. That is the path we have taken and which has produced results. I hope that the next government will continue to follow this path in order to push the fight further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u77	Mr President, Minister, you are famous for spectacular results, but there is a point to be made. After all, the Court of Auditors found that tracing those revenues is particularly difficult. You're magical with numbers here, but the Court of Auditors has questions. The Court of Auditors also has questions about the figures that the SIOD has put forward in its report for the year 2018. Perhaps we should take that with a grain of salt. In addition, you measured only 17 of the 21 indicators that need to trace these revenues in 2018. I ask myself questions about that. Of course, it's one or the other. You say you won't bring those services together. However, we cannot deny that there is always a overlap and that pooling these forces and pooling these different expertises can lead to more performance, efficiency and results. You are not taking any steps towards a unified social inspection service, which means that you will not go down in history as the bravest of all warriors against social fraud. You sail blind, because tracking those returns is extremely difficult and you fight in scattered battle order. This is only to the advantage of the cheaters and the profiteers and that really has to stop. That is why the single social inspection service is vital.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u78	Mr President, Minister, the law is very clear: by 2025 nuclear power stations in our country will be closed down. In that sector, 2025 is actually the day after tomorrow. We must prepare for this and we do so. There is a nuclear facility committee in our country watching that. This week we received the last annual report from this committee and it contained something that should be of concern to us all. It said 'that in our country, with the current legislation, there is a considerable risk that our citizens, our families, will bear the cost of dismantling and storing irradiated nuclear fuels'. That is something we cannot accept. After all, the citizens of our country have been paying a high energy bill for a long time and have actually paid off the nuclear power plants through that energy bill, and they will have to pay for the cost of the destruction. We cannot accept that. I hear the nuclear sector advertising itself and saying that nuclear power stations should remain open longer. One of the arguments they put forward for this is that nuclear power plants are cheap. I find that easy to speak. The nuclear power stations have been paid off and the industry also hopes that the bill will be forwarded for their destruction. It can't be. Madam Secretary, I only have one question. How will we prevent that? How will we ensure that this legislation is brought to a conclusion? I understand you've been doing that for a while. Finish your work. You refer to Parliament in the media. Well, Parliament is here, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u79	Madam Minister, today the citizens are wondering whether they will have to pay for the decommissioning and waste of nuclear power plants themselves. As my colleague has said, the committee that controls the supplies paid by Electrabel and Luminus, the producers, sounded the alarm in its 2018 report. There is a considerable risk that the Belgian population will have to bear these enormous costs in the future. The Echo last Tuesday asks you the question: "Does it have to increase these provisions?" You say you don't know. You're Minister of Energy, madam, in day-to-day business, either, but still. In which country do we live if you do not know today whether or not to increase these provisions? What's the problem? Under the minimum assumption, EUR 25 billion is needed for the dismantling and management of waste. In the cash register, we have 11 billion. The calculation is therefore quite simple. At the current rate of EUR 177 million per year, this year in any case, it will not be five years that will be necessary, at a minimum, to pay these costs, but 79 years. In addition, can we count on this money? Where are those 11 billion? They are located at Synatom, a subsidiary of Engie, Electrabel's mother house. Not only are these billions there, but they were loaned by Synatom to the mother house. Do you agree that these annual provisions, paid by Electrabel and Luminus, must be substantially revised upwards? If so, how? Do you find it normal that the money to be used for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and waste management is not in a public fund, but in the hands of Engie Electrabel? Do you not fear that Electrabel will organize his own bankruptcy to escape his responsibilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your questions on an extremely sensitive issue. Mr Warmoes, I will take the word you have quoted from this article, saying that "I don't know," because I can't know anything about it. Indeed, it is ONDRAF, the national body responsible for the management of radioactive waste, which must set the necessary means to request from Electrabel and to locate in the Synatom fund in order to ensure, in due course, that the decommissioning of nuclear power stations is started and that the treatment of highly radioactive waste is subsequently processed. This period will extend to 2120. I agree with you that we need to be extremely strict in order for the polluter pays principle to be applied and that Electrabel will bear the full cost, without any cent euro being paid by the consumer. It is for this reason that the government has entrusted me with strengthening the legal framework. I have introduced a bill that strengthens the 2003 Act, which gives much more power to the Nuclear Supplies Commission and allows it, for example, to reduce the steering wheel of the loans that Synatom can make to Engie. Within this fund, up to 75% of the money can be lent to the parent house. One can reduce the steering wheel of these loans and have a larger volume in cash. You must know two things. Under my leadership, we have increased to 11 billion euros. I was the one who supported the ONDRAF in a maximalist demand in order to have as much money as possible within the Synatom fund. ONDRAF continued its work and probably upgraded it based on technical assessments. In addition, I have provided the NPC with an operating budget, which was very necessary to enable it to work professionally, knowing that the work of this commission must extend over the next 100 years and must be able to be passed on from generation to generation, with people working full-time on it. Today, they are people who give the Nuclear Supplies Commission time, time and professionalism, when it would be necessary for us to have a full-time team to take on the treatment and control of these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u81	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I hear you saying that the polluter pays. That is the principle that we would certainly like to apply. You say you have a bill ready. We are waiting for that and we would like to reach out to you. I would like to add one more thing, which is important to us. Last week we discussed the nuclear levy in committee. I do not need to remind you that we think it is far too low. Over the past four years, EUR 1 billion has been paid less than the previous years. The end of the year is in sight, but the time of gifts to that sector is definitely over. We cannot allow the dismantling of power stations to be paid for by our citizens. So we reach out to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u82	Minister, you did not answer my question. You said you kept your words, that is, "I don't know." You still have an opinion! An amount of 177 million was requested this year by royal decree. You're the one who set that amount. And this is a royal decree of the government. Having said that, they are "peanuts" in relation to needs, but I am not surprised by the links between your firm and Electrabel. This aspect has often been mentioned. You want to strengthen the Nuclear Supplies Commission. But what we're interested in is the money. We must have a firm and clear guarantee, as you say, that citizens will not have to pay. I asked a question about the public fund that you didn't answer either. If you give the money in domestic funds to the producer, will the producer still be there in 2120 to pay? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u83	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the Middle East, in the face of the deep, abyssal impasse in which the peace process lies, in the face of the human and humanitarian sufferings that are once again at their height, some are blowing over the embers, for example by moving their embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Others are attentists when it comes to really contributing to political solutions for a two-state perspective. However, the day before yesterday, a very important step was taken in deepening the policy of differentiation between Israel and its colonies. I recall that settlements exist and spread in complete violation of international law and United Nations resolution 2334. The Court of Justice of the European Union has indeed ruled. Goods exported from Israeli settlements must clearly mention their true origin and no longer a perfectly misleading "made in Israel". There can no longer be any ambiguity. Tomorrow, a product made in the colonies will have to be labelled as such. This is anything but symbolic because consumers, in this case Belgian consumers, have the right to know and to choose knowingly. If I ask you, Madam Minister, it is because our country has indeed issued a directive on compliance with European rules on this matter. But the government has yet to provide the means to verify its application at both your FPS and our customs levels. That's where the bastard hurts. So, Madam Minister, what steps do you intend to take to enable our country to comply effectively with the relevant European texts? What instructions and means will you give to your FPS in order to make this decision finally effective, including with your colleague in charge of customs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u84	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was delivered just two days ago. You will understand that I have not yet been able to analyse it in detail. The judgment gives an interpretation to the FIC Regulation on consumer information on foodstuffs and describes in detail the concepts of country of origin and place of origin. The judgment gives a binding interpretation to that regulation. In my view, it is very clear that the authorities, their supervisors and economic actors must comply with this binding pronouncement. I asked the SPF Economy to inform the professional federations about this judgment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u85	Minister, colonization is an illegal phenomenon, and we all know that. For years, it has prevented any progress in the peace process. While thanking you for your answers, I would like to remind you that the time has come for more political voluntarism. The decision of the highest European court is more important than it seems. To promote a policy of differentiation with regard to settlement products is to give our fellow citizens the opportunity to know. In this way, they will no longer be able to be accomplices without their knowledge of this illegal colonization, which violates the fundamental rights of the Palestinian people. It is now up to the government to take all the necessary measures and to give the administrations the ad hoc means.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u86	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week there was a message in De Tijd, perhaps also in L'Echo, that the budgets for 2020 of all the states are going in red. All of them, from the first to the last. If we add up the deficit, we will get EUR 2 billion for the Länder. Flanders, the ever-sustainable Flanders, also goes in red. This has to do with the abolition of the housing bonus and the reduction of registration fees. In 2021, there will be a new balance. The main bird was shot by our former colleague, Frédéric Daerden. In the meantime, he has been promoted to Minister of Budget in the French Community. The deficit there is 6.4 %, or 708 million euros on a total budget of 11 billion euros. When asked for a response, he said that this is marginal and manageable. That's how we know him, of course. I find that particularly disturbing, Minister. These are all governments with full powers, and each of them is unable to draw up a budget that does not go in the red, at the beginning of the legislature. You know what the situation is. We are facing severe economic weather. The budget is a problem. We do not currently have a federal government with full authority. What do you think of that situation? What can or will you do to correct that situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u87	Mr Van Quickenborne, Belgium's budget deficit is expected to increase next year, as already indicated in the latest budgetary plan. On the one hand, this evolution is due to the fact that, in the absence of a federal government, the calculations of the deficit for the coming year were made under unchanged policies. In other words, without having the opportunity to take the necessary corrective measures to offset the impact of the slowdown in growth and the continued increases in expenditure on pensions and invalidity benefits. On the other hand, the recent budgetary work of the Communities and the Regions shows that the increase in the almost universal deficit in the various Communities and regions feeds the increase in the deficit in Belgium. By 2020, the total deficit of the Communities and Regions should exceed EUR 2 billion. It should be noted that unlike the federal government, which is currently in progress, these budgets are drawn up by governments with full powers. In a dynamic of collective responsibility, in a federal state, it is important that everyone takes the necessary steps to be part of a path to responsible clean-up. In this context, I can understand that certain communities and regions justify the growth of the deficit by the need to make the necessary investments. However, I would remind you that the Communities and the Regions are subject to the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact and the ESA rules. At present, these rules do not allow specific consideration of investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u88	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply. I am disappointed that so little attention is being paid to the problem. It's in one newspaper. We don't see it appearing anywhere in the media. However, we are talking here about our country's household, about the federal government, which currently has no full authority, and about the Länder, which are all in the red. Ladies and gentlemen, that should of course also be essential in the discussions for a government in the process of being formed, i.e. in the pre-formation. I read that the pre-former has identified five priority themes for these discussions. However, Mr President, one issue or theme is missing, particularly the budget, the elephant in the room. I hope that we will be able to restore budgetary discipline in a serious way. That is what we must do here in Parliament. I also hope that what we are doing here in Parliament will help to achieve this rather than increase the deficit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u89	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u90	The next item is the elections for the double list of candidates to be submitted by the Chamber for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The next item is the secret ballots on the double number of candidates to be presented to the Chamber in order to appoint a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. Nominations were announced in plenary on 7 November 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 7 November 2019. The document bearing the names of candidates has been circulated. (700/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (700/1) I would remind you that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 32 of the Special Act of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court, the double list must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 32 (1) of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court, the double number must be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members present. We begin by voting for the first candidate. After the announcement of the result, we will proceed to the vote for the second candidate. We shall begin with the vote for the first candidate. We shall proceed to the vote for the second candidate after the outcome of the vote. Ballot papers for the first candidate were distributed. The ballots for the first candidate have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. Since the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I would point out that only ballot papers which mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are invalid. I would point out that only ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate nominated for the vote are valid. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. We shall therefore proceed to the vote for the first candidate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote for the first candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a rule of law, it is more than questionable that a Constitutional Court should consist of twelve politically appointed judges. In order to attract a beautiful blue toga in the rest of his professional life, the right party card is needed in this country. There is no objective representativeness or proportionality between the political groups. Today's choice for someone from the sp.a mini party shows that. We are protesting against this course of action. I call on all parties who openly say that they are opposed to political appointments to be consistent and not to name the pink ballots that have just been distributed. If a third of Members do so, we will block the entire political system of appointment and increase the pressure to create an objective system. Colleagues of the N-VA, be consistent. Don't be tempted by the thought that next time it's your turn in this job carousel. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to join those political appointments in the near future, please stop pointing the finger at other countries, such as Poland. You and the European Union are making trouble with Poland because the judges of the highest court in that country are appointed politically. You really do not have to teach Poland, because what you will do in the Chamber now is exactly the same. You will shortly be making a political appointment. The Flemish interest will certainly not participate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u92	Mr President, since this is a secret vote, I will not give an explanation of vote, because that is not possible and it would go against the plowing. The comments made by Mr Pas do not seem to me to be of any importance, but there is legislation in this area. Initiatives can be taken to amend that legislation, and I think they need to be looked at seriously. After all, if we now have the debate on specific applications, then the discussion is likely to apply precisely to these applications. In addition to the problem raised by Mr Pasquale, I would like to touch a second one, without questioning the procedure. In view of the future, I believe that we should consider the fact that we are currently appoint ing members of the Constitutional Court without even organising hearings, so that we do not really know what the objectives, intentions or competences are. Moreover, I do not wish to question the skills of the candidates we can vote on today. However, we do not have the opportunity to look seriously at the applications in a hearing. Apart from the current specific situation, I think that we should take responsibility for reviewing this from Parliament. I would also like to point out, without prejudice to our voting behaviour, that a Member of the Constitutional Court must monitor compliance with the Constitution. This means that the loyalty of the members of the Constitutional Court can be difficult to divide between different countries, but there may be doubts about this in the event of a dual nationality of a member. In this context, I would like to say that one of the candidates deserves to be taken into account in the initiative she has taken to clarify this issue. I quote her: "To remove any doubt, I have contacted the Algerian embassy to renounce my Algerian nationality." We very much appreciate that initiative. I hope that future candidates for the Constitutional Court will follow suit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u93	I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langehove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u94	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed. I suggest we suspend for about ten minutes. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u95	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u96	Voters 138 Stemmen White or invalid 23 Blank or invalid Valid [[115]] Geldig Two-thirds majority 92 Two-thirds majority Mme Yasmine Kerbache a obtenu 115 voix. Mrs Yasmine Kerbache received 115 votes. Mr Jan Bertels obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Bertels received 0 votes. Ms. Yasmine Kerbache, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared the first candidate for the vacant position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Ms Yasmine Kerbache, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed first candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u97	We shall now proceed to the ballot for the nomination of the second candidate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the appointment of the second candidate. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langehove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u98	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u99	The government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when the draft law amending the General Customs and Excise Act of 18 July 1977 and the Value Added Tax Code transposing Directive (EU) 2017/1371, No. 706/1 was tabled. The Government requested the urgency declaration pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law amending the general law on customs and excise duties of 18 July 1977 and the Code of Value Added Tax transposing Directive (EU) 2017/1371, No. 706/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u100	Mr President, the justification for the question of urgency is as follows. This draft law is intended to partially transpose into Belgian law the European Parliament and Council Directive on the fight against fraud in criminal matters affecting the Union's financial interests in respect of the European Union's own resources. To this end, the necessary adaptations will be made to the General Law on Customs and Excise and the VAT Lawbook. This transposition was required by 6 July 2019 at the latest, hence the urgent need. Otherwise we are in default.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u101	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u102	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u103	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of our White Blouse proposal, No 704/1 in order to ensure that we can hold the debates next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u104	You're asking me for urgency about these proposals, Mr. Laaouej?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u105	The proposals have the same purpose, Mr President. We need to regroup. Otherwise, it's no use.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u106	It concerns Mr Hedebouw's proposal to set up a budget fund for 'White Rage', No. 704/1. There are other proposals in the same context, but if we accept the urgency of Mr. Hedebouw's proposal, the others follow automatically. We shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. 704/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u107	I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes pending the outcome of the secret ballot. The meeting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u108	The sitting has resumed. The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u109	Voters 136 Stemmen White or invalid 26 Blank or invalid Valid 110 Geldig Two-thirds majority 91 Two-thirds majority M. Jan Bertels a obtenu 110 voix. Mr Jan Bertels received 110 votes. Mr Jan Bertels, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared a second candidate for the vacant position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Mr Jan Bertels, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed second candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-14-55-plenair-ip013x.u110	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, November 21, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 21 November 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
