ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u1	We have no news of Mr Luykx as regards his question No 25679. Question No 25690 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question. Nor have we heard from Mrs Fonck about her question No 26842.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u2	Prime Minister, I have a number of questions today, but I would like to begin with what might be most dear to me, in particular the inter-federal investment pact. You know it's a stick horse from our group. This country is looking forward to future projects and certainly future projects where the different levels of policy work together. That is not always easy, but at least you have had the merit of trying. You also activated a strategic committee, which made a number of recommendations some time ago. Since then, however, it has remained quite quiet. I understand that the end of the legislature is approaching and a government in current affairs is making things difficult, but it would be a pity if that project were to die silently. It would be a pity that this would also mean an important promise. I would like to take this opportunity to press you to a state of affairs. I have seen the press conference on the final report, but of course a press conference is not yet an investment plan. How is cooperation with the Länder going? I know that the Consultation Committee would meet on several sub-projects such as mobility, digital agenda and energy transition. I see that the Flemish Government is refusing to formally approve the Energy Pact. So not everything is going as it should be. How is cooperation with the Länder going? What steps have been taken and what steps have not been taken? What do you think is the future of the recommendations of the Strategic Committee? How do you see the further roll-out? There may also be an update on the composition. You know that our group was a party asking to make that committee more inclusive. Maybe there's a way to get started. Perhaps in the coming years there is a possibility of valorizing the work, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, deepening and improving it. I'm very interested in your ideas on that. Our group hopes that the investment pact can be extended further before and hopefully after the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have completed a full written reply, with all the details, but I would also like to make a few points. Everyone here on the committee knows the history of this file. The strategic committee's recommendations were presented on 11 September. What happened after that? What steps have been taken, apart from the fall of the government at the end of December? Firstly, a new cell has been set up within the Chancellery, whose task is to analyse the recommendations and identify the concrete steps that can be taken to implement the various recommendations. The initial analysis of that cell shows that many points are interfederal. For many points, this is a confirmation of what we were thinking of developing a strengthening of cooperation at the interfederal level. Secondly, following the presentation of the report, I had that point re-examined in the Conciliation Committee. On 7 November 2018, the Consultation Committee confirmed the composition of an Inter-Ministerial Conference, with a mandate for that Inter-Ministerial Conference, as regards investment, and a mandate to work in four yards. These yards are the following; they are also priorities in the report of the Strategic Committee. Firstly, strengthening governance for the major investments that require interfederal cooperation. Secondly, strengthening the regulatory and administrative framework for these investments, in particular the introduction of a unique point of contact. Thirdly, mobilising public and private capital. Fourthly, to strengthen and confirm the Belgian position on the revision of the European budgetary rules planned for the course of 2019. The working groups have worked hard to prepare for the Inter-Ministerial Conference to be held at the end of March. At the end of March, therefore, an important meeting of the Interministerial Committee on Strategic Investments is scheduled. I hope that it will be possible to go as far as possible with the Länder in taking decisions of principle in the four yards. One important element is that we have asked the Länder to submit additional proposals to the Conciliation Committee. The strategic committee also held additional discussions at the government's request, following the presentation of the report, with Parliament, on 6 November 2018, but also with other actors, in particular with the Group of Ten. So there has also been a meeting with the Group of Ten to raise awareness and listen to it, in order to determine what support or contribution the Group of Ten can provide. A meeting is also planned with the Federal Council for Sustainable Development. In addition, our diplomats and ambassadors at European level have given a mandate to sensitize their homologs in other European countries and to continue our plea at European level. You know our reasoning, we are working on the basis of a memorandum of support from the Länder and the federal government, in connection with the flexibility clause for strategic investment. We have made a clear choice together with the Länder. We have the same position and the same vision. That is the basis of our plea at European level. I myself have also been given the opportunity, either in the Council or in bilateral talks with my homologs, to make that plea. I hope that the European elections in May 2019 will also be an opportunity for a strategic vision of the next European Commission. I hope that a step can be taken towards more investment, taking into account the necessary investments in the budgetary analysis of the various Member States. I have distanced myself a little from my written preparation, but I can provide you with more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u4	Thank you for your reply, Prime Minister. I look forward to the written answer, which will be even more complete. It is indeed pragmatic to limit the oral discussion to the key points. If that is possible, I would also like to get the analysis of the cell's recommendations in the Chancellery. I am interested in this analysis, as is your more detailed written reply. There are obvious limitations, due to the period of current cases, but I do think it is positive that another inter-ministerial conference is planned. It would also be good, Prime Minister, to schedule an exchange of views with Parliament on the federal positions and your ideas before the start of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, to see whether or not you can count on parliamentary support for them during this period of current affairs. In Parliament, too, there can be a lot of ideas about the four yards you describe: governance, a unique window, mobilising capital and European budgetary rules. I am also looking at the chairman. It seems interesting to me to schedule such a session, because it is indeed a story of cooperation. Let us begin at this level, with cooperation between Parliament and the government. I can also see that, at institutional level, the instruments are being carefully considered for the four yards. What I am missing at the moment is a more strategic choice in future sectors. Let me give you a concrete example. You know the story of battery production. Last week I questioned the Energy Minister about this. What is our commitment to the European Battery Alliance? That's pretty poor. In addition to the institutional framework, such an investment pact should really give direction to a number of choices. I often use this image: in which sectors do we want to play in the champions league, in which in the europa league and in which in the first class? In any case, let us not settle for the second and third classes. Finally, when it comes to cooperation, we must move towards a new phase. Inter-ministerial conferences and consultative committees are all good, but it is still mucking in the margins, especially with parties that do not really like cooperation. I believe that more fundamental proposals should be put forward in the regional government, for example with regard to the energy and housing power cluster. We need one Minister for Climate and Energy. An inter-federal investment plan is needed, explicitly led by the Prime Minister, with an inter-federal investment budget. In terms of cooperation, it is time for a new chapter. With all due respect to the matters on the table for the time being, they will not be enough to remedy the current problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u5	Mr. Blanchart is not present. Question No 27313 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u6	Prime Minister, this is an issue that dates back to the end of October, but the facts are tragically current. You had a meeting at the end of October with the Colombian President, Mr Iván Duque, and I would have liked to know what your discussions were and what positions you had defended at that meeting. Have you been able to discuss with him the very worrying issue of the peace agreements, their future and their implementation, and above all the question of the increase in attacks and assassinations of human rights defenders in Colombia? I still have before me a recent event: on 5 February, trade unionist Brian Ceballos Torres, employed by Nestlé de Colombia, was murdered in the Cauca Valley. Unfortunately, this tragedy is in addition to a number of homicides targeting workers from the same company, as well as the murders of 400 social leaders that have been committed since last year, without the Colombian State taking effective measures to guarantee their safety. I would like to know if you have been able to talk to the President of Colombia about the murders of human rights defenders and trade unionists. Could he assure you that he would take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u7	Mrs Grovonius, you are asking me about my meeting with Colombian President Duque on 24 October on his first visit to Europe as President. He was then in Brussels to meet European decision-makers, but also to enter into a bilateral dialogue with your servant. Our exchange was long and thorough and focused mainly on the political situation in Colombia and neighbouring countries. Since then, we have met in the margins of the Davos Conference, but this second interview was shorter than the first. The most important part of our discussion was devoted to the peace process in Colombia, about which he detailed his vision at length. In particular, he assured me that the peace agreement with the terrorist Marxist movement of the FARC would be fully implemented. In his view, it was important for the former guerrillas to apply it fairly, by making a real conversion to civilian life. I assured him of our country's support for the peace process and the political approach that he set out to me. It is also appropriate that the process initiated by Juan Manuel Santos – whom I had met on several occasions – be continued so that Colombia finally emerges from a conflict that has lasted since 1964. With regard to the negotiations with the other Marxist guerrillas, namely the ELN, the President told me that he was ready for a ceasefire and to resume the dialogue provided that the ELN stopped committing crimes and released all hostages. Since that meeting, there has been an attack on the police school in Bogota on 17 January, which resulted in 21 deaths and dozens of injuries. This attack was claimed by the ELN, which changed the situation. The Colombian government has therefore decided to stop the negotiation process with the ELN as they have not complied with the conditions imposed. This is, moreover, the most deadly attack in Colombia since 2003. The Colombian President also discussed the dramatic situation in neighbouring Venezuela at length with me. His country was in the first place and suffered the direct consequences of what was happening there. It currently hosts a million Venezuelan refugees. This is the largest migration crisis ever experienced in Latin America. President Duque told me that Colombia will continue to make every effort to ensure its international obligations by welcoming Venezuelan refugees. He also made it clear that he was in favour of a complete isolation of President Maduro's regime. For my part, I have affirmed the need for maximum international mobilization to put an end to this dictatorship. Meanwhile, the Belgian government has joined The Like Minded-Group in Europe and Latin America to support the President of the Venezuelan Parliament, Juan Guaido, who has proclaimed himself ad interim president and above all to invite him to hold, as soon as possible, new presidential elections that meet the criteria of transparency and honesty. We have also been monitoring the humanitarian situation in recent hours and days. Human rights protection was also addressed, including violations committed to the detriment of rural populations by the terrorist movements of FARC and ELN. Finally, we have addressed an equally important point, namely the economic development of a post-conflict Colombia. His conviction, like mine, is that economic development and peace go hand in hand. It therefore wants to strengthen initiatives to try to eradicate the coca culture and, above all, replace it with alternative economic strategies, including alternative cultures. He also expressed a keen interest in strengthening the economic links between our two countries in this context, in particular with regard to energy and health infrastructure, and expressed the hope that a Belgian economic mission could soon come to Colombia in the context of prospecting. He also invited the government to participate in this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u8	Prime Minister, thank you. The murders of human rights leaders and trade unionists go far beyond the problems of demilitarization or demobilization of FARC and ELN members. If the Colombian State does not use the peace agreements to shed light and bring justice to the actions of some multinationals in the country, I believe that they will not succeed in implementing these peace agreements. I regret that this aspect has not been deepened. In any case, I understand that this is not a priority for the President of Colombia. I believe that Belgium should continue to put pressure on these agreements to move forward. Justice must be done. Otherwise, I repeat, we will not be able to implement the peace process.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u9	Prime Minister, I can refer to my many oral and written questions on the possible restoration of the executions during the First World War. I have questioned you on several occasions, and you then referred to the report which Professor Horvat would draw up on this subject and which has been delayed. In your answers, you have repeatedly stated that you will "examine this difficult issue without taboos, as soon as I can rely on a full and objective scientific study." This question dates back to mid-November and the final version of the final report was already available for several weeks. Meanwhile, we are almost four months ahead and there has been plenty of time to deliver this report to the scientific committee. In the meantime, I hope that the Scientific Committee has given all its advice to the federal government. Prime Minister, first of all, what are the main findings of that report? Will Members have access to this report? Secondly, what action will the government take on this document, particularly as regards the possible restoration of honour for those executed during the First World War?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of this year I asked about the state of affairs of the investigation into the execution of soldiers during the First World War, for the sake of desertion and insubordination. In an open letter, the next of kin asked for apologies from the federal government because scientific literature shows that the war court at the time of the First World War was not working properly, especially in terms of language. In your reply to the Committee on 16 January 2018, you indicated that the investigation, conducted by the Scientific Committee, set up by the Organization Committee to commemorate the First World War, was postponed several times. That is also the answer given by Prime Minister Di Rupo to questions on this subject. So we've been working on this case for a while, and it's been postponed. What is the state of the research carried out by the Scientific Committee? Can you formally confirm that the scientific committee's opinion was delivered to the government and the federal organizational committee for commemoration? What conclusion will the government draw from the opinion of the Scientific Committee, in particular as regards apologies for soldiers sentenced and executed to death in suspicious language conditions, for desertion and subordination? Will you also submit the results of the inquiry to Parliament? I ask that question in the following particular context. We are considering what to do, whether or not we should apologize for the genocide committed by the Belgian French-speaking regime in the 19th century in Congo. I believe that this question also has an extension, namely the ethnocide which tried to implement that same Belgian regime at the same time in the 19th century with regard to Flemish Dutch-speaking culture in Belgium. Of course, genocide is not an ethnocide, but it is clearly about systematically trying to eradicate a culture, a language of another community. I think this case is the extension of that. We are no longer in the 19th century, but at the beginning of the 20th century, where soldiers were condemned, when they could not have expressed themselves in their own language. In this context, too, I would like to know the government's position on this attempt at ethnocide with regard to Dutch culture and language in the 19th century and to know what this extension means to date. Will the government also apologize for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in October 2013, an open letter, entitled Call to the Government, was published and signed by relatives of shot soldiers in the war 1914-1918. The federal government has decided to question the scientific committee set up by the federal commissioner for the 2014-2018 memorial period. That scientific committee, made up of historians, mostly professors or emeritus professors of our universities in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, has applied for a study at the Chair of the Royal Military School. The results of this study, entrusted to Professor Stanislas Horvat, Head of the Chair of Law, were established in an interim report of 22 May 2018 submitted to the Scientific Committee. In the meantime, Professor Horvat's final study was completed in September and the Scientific Committee gave its opinion. Professor Horvat's final report and the conclusions and recommendations of the Scientific Committee were delivered today to the President of the Chamber of Representatives. I wrote the communication letter to Parliament today. Given the current situation, the government is ready to cooperate with Parliament in the context of the conclusions and recommendations of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u12	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. I am glad that after so many years of delay in the report, due to circumstances, the report and the opinion, the Prime Minister is finally there, but the Prime Minister is keeping the strain, because he has not yet given a hint of what is in the report and the opinion or what the recommendations might be. I hope that we can look at the report and the opinion as soon as possible so that it can be followed up and there can be excuses and reparations. That open letter only shows that this still lives very hard on the next of kin. We will see to it that a follow-up is made soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u13	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It is a good thing that the report will be delivered to Parliament today after persistent questions have been raised. We will read it with great attention as soon as possible. I had hoped that you would have outlined a number of broad lines of action here in the report, but we will read it ourselves and look at the conclusions. In any case, this is a sensitive issue and context. We will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u14	Mr Dallemagne, you asked that your question No 28025 be turned into a written question. Do you still want it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u15	Mr. President, it's dated. I wish to turn it into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u16	That will be the case. Question No 28058 by Mrs Caprasse is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u17	Mr President, I am pleased to see that the question addressed to the Minister for the Digital Agenda has been taken up by the Prime Minister. This shows the importance attached to this issue. Prime Minister, the Chinese firm Huawei could be banned in Belgium, according to the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB). More and more countries are critical of China's network and mobile phone giant, whose infrastructure could be an open door for espionage by the Chinese state and its army. In Belgium, the CWB intends to ban any activity from the supplier of Proximus and Orange Belgium. Prime Minister, what information do you have about the risk of spying in China's head, through Huawei? Is Belgium sufficiently protected against such attacks? What about the American giant Apple and South Korean Samsung? Are there any risks to the data protection of persons with Huawei phones in Belgium? What is the European Union's position on these risks denounced by the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u18	Mr Prime Minister, at the end of last year it was announced that the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium was conducting an investigation into possible security risks associated with the Huawei system. According to the newspaper De Standaard, the CCB has requested independent studies and evaluations of possible safety risks through partners in other countries. Some responses would have been received by 30 January 2019, but without any indication of technical safety risks. The commotion around Huawei arose after the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia stopped the company. Those countries, in their own words, did so for reasons of national security. The BIPT considers that up to now there is no concrete information on factual elements that would justify such a decision. In addition, it points out that no European country has so far taken similar measures, although there are still some studies in progress. The Polish government is also considering excluding Huawei technology for the future 5G network. In January 2019, Poland even arrested a Huawei employee on suspicion of espionage. The Czech cybersecurity agency Nukib also showed a few weeks ago that Huawei is a potential threat to national security. On 18 February 2019, The Financial Times reported that the British National Cyber Security Center believes that Huawei is a manageable risk for the country. Great Britain may limit the risks arising from the use of Huawei equipment for a 5G network itself. That ruling could influence decisions in other European countries, according to The Financial Times. Can you explain the scope of the CCB's research? Are there any other companies besides Huawei that are investigating whether they could endanger national security? Are there any other public authorities involved in the investigation alongside the CCB? Has the current Huawei investigation been completed? If so, what is the conclusion of the investigation? If not, when does the CCB intend to complete that? What independent studies and evaluations were requested by the CCB? Which countries do the studies come from? When were the documents received? Did the CCB have direct contact with Huawei? If so, when did the conversation take place? What conclusions did the CCB draw from the conversation? Does the CCB have the evaluations carried out by other European countries? If so, which countries are they talking about? Is the investigation of the British National Cyber Security Center one of the investigations received? What are the conclusions of the available documents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u19	In autumn 2018, the international media reported on the decision of several countries such as the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Japan to ban ICT systems of Huawei from public networks or in the deployment of mobile networks 5G. The issue therefore deserves special attention and is currently the subject of an in-depth analysis at both European and Belgian level. The European Commission and the European Network and Information Security Agency, ENISA, work together to establish a safety standard and certification. Belgium has not yet received any specific recommendations from those authorities at this stage. At Belgian level, several departments work together to gather as much information as possible. For example, the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee has mandated one of its cybersecurity platforms to conduct the fullest possible analysis. This one's still in progress. We insist that it be available as soon as possible. The CWB is also involved in this work. We hope that this analysis will be available next April. Then, of course, we expect the results and we will see, on this basis, what attitude could be taken and what steps could be taken if necessary. Questions about possible consequences for operators, including Proximus, are – at this stage – premature. The same applies to data protection aspects. We must first wait for the results of the analyses to make a more definitive decision. Huawei also asked for the CCB to be briefed on their security initiatives. This briefing took place on 7 January 2019. And the information provided on this occasion actually focused more on Huawei's place in the market. Finally, since December 2018, the CWB has regularly consulted assessments and studies from open sources or conducted by some partners in the area of cybersecurity. According to the information available to the CWB, the analysis of this issue by other European countries comes mainly from open sources. Thus, the study of the British National Cyber Security Center is not currently public. That is the situation at this stage. We will therefore, week after week, follow the evolution. One final remark. This is a European challenge. We need to carry out more and more screening of foreign strategic investments in the European Union. This goes from the issue of the Internet and the digital agenda to the energy sector. It is important that we develop a strategic vision here at the European level and make progress in doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u20	I thank the Prime Minister for his response. It is true that this issue is also part of a more global context of the current investments of Chinese companies in the European economy, and also in the American economy. The question arises here in particular because of the links between Huawei, the Ministry of Defence and the Chinese Communist Party. Of course we're not used to that kind of thing in our countries. But at the same time, I think that we must have a different attitude from that of the United States, which is very closed to this problem. The evolution of digital technology must also be taken into account, which must be given priority over the problem of geopolitical consequences.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer I welcome. Anyway, according to my information, which was confirmed in the newspaper this morning, there are three major suppliers for such 5G networks, namely Huawei, Ericsson and Nokia. If there's a bant of that, a top player falls away. Nic Read, Vodafone's top man, expressed his fear that if Huawei is no longer admitted to the market, this will automatically result in a two-year delay in the deployment of the 5G network in Belgium and Europea. We therefore need to balance technological progress with all kinds of digital applications, on which we support our entire economy, and national security. That's not an easy exercise. According to Mr Flahaux, we are not used to connecting a government Department of Defence with a private company, as is the case with the Chinese. That is not entirely true, because we find the same thing in other countries, such as the United States. We must honestly confess that if we work with Google or Facebook, NSA and other US intelligence services will also be listening. I do not need to remind you of, for example, the person responsible for the hack at Angela Merkel or the hack at Belgacom. People often claim that Chinese are our enemies. I say that they are not always our friends automatically and that we should also be afraid of our partners in security policy. I hope that the government will take a balanced decision and take account of technological progress, on the one hand, and national security, on the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u22	Prime Minister, on 29 March 2018, the House of Representatives unanimously adopted resolution 2952 on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. On 15 January, during a meeting of the Committee on External Relations, Minister Reynders presented the concrete progress made in this area, taking into account the two main recommendations contained in the resolution. It concerns, on the one hand, all matters relating to documentation and historical research concerning responsibilities and, on the other hand, matters relating to civil status and the granting of Belgian nationality. Prime Minister, while we obviously welcome these advances, some requests to the government remain unanswered on your part. In particular, the resolution calls on the Government "to issue, on the basis of this resolution, a solemn and memorial declaration on behalf of Belgium". It seems important to me that, symbolically, it be pronounced by the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, do you intend to make this solemn and memorial declaration? Has a date already been set for this purpose? If this is not the case, the date of Thursday, 7 February, could be particularly appropriate. Indeed, on 7 February 1831 the Belgian Constitution was adopted, recognizing the equality of all before the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u23	Prime Minister, I will not repeat the words of my excellent colleague. I will ask you only if you intend to follow up on our resolution, which called for "a solemn and memorial declaration on behalf of Belgium". It also requested that "a stele or any other physical memorial mark be erected to perpetuate the memory of the facts recognized in this resolution". Prime Minister, I therefore join Mr Dallemagne in asking you when the government will follow up on this important text that we voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u24	Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Grovonius, Minister Reynders has already had the opportunity to recall the initiatives that have been taken, which I will not review since you know them. For example, I can tell you that a budget of €400,000 has been released to address concerns about access to and delivery of databases and information. In addition, instructions were given to diplomatic posts and embassies with a view to establishing maximum cooperation with the persons concerned. Moreover, since the adoption of this resolution, both my firm and other firms have participated in various meetings and meetings with the Belgian Métis Association. In addition, a few weeks ago, I informed the President of Parliament – of course, informally – of my readiness to deliver a solemn declaration here. That is why I hope that the Conference of Presidents will be able to draw up a proposal to that effect. I will gladly submit to the agenda that it has set. Indeed, it is not – unfortunately, perhaps – the government in day-to-day affairs that sets the agenda. We had thought of setting the date for March, since the week of 28 is the first anniversary of the vote on the resolution in Parliament. That's one of the assumptions we've been thinking about. I hear that another proposal has been made, Mr Dallemagne, and I am quite open to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u25	Prime Minister, I was talking about February, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u26	Yes, it's impossible, since we can't go back. However, if other dates are proposed, we are open to them. In any case, the answer is absolutely clear. Similarly, the suggestion of a stele suits us. It is certain that the government will ensure that the proposals put forward by a parliamentary majority are faithfully implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for the seriousness with which you are following this resolution. This text is important to our memory, our history and the injuries suffered by the Métis. I will ensure that your informal proposal can be followed up. To that end, I will address the Speaker of the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u28	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We will therefore make sure that this issue will be properly addressed at the next Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, we remain on this important issue of memory and on our colonial past with a slightly more specific aspect, namely the interim report of the UN experts on the Belgian colonial period which was commented upon by you and which you described as "very strange". These five United Nations experts ask the Belgian authorities to apologize for the colonization and atrocities committed on the African continent. As far as I'm concerned, it was your reaction that seemed a little strange to me. I believe that the authorities of our country must recognize their responsibilities with regard to our colonial past. I have no doubt about that, given the discussions we have just had on the previous question. Like France, we must open an intercultural dialogue that is adult and serene on these central issues, which are an integral part of our memory work. I am well aware that this issue will have to be resolved politically and diplomatically between Belgium and the countries concerned. At the PS, we believe that if we want to act, we will have to rely on tangible elements. That is why we call for the establishment of a joint working group of multidisciplinary experts to carry out this substantive work on our colonial past, and in particular on the issue of African cultural and heritage property belonging to Belgian museums. Our country could come out grown up if we immediately launched such a memory work with the help of Belgian scientists and experts but also African and/or from the African diaspora. Prime Minister, how do you feel about this interim report of the UN Panel of Experts? What follow-up do you intend to do? Could you support the idea of launching this inter-federal scientific study, as requested by the PS? In our view, this will allow strong political actions in terms of memory work to be carried out on the basis of established facts. It will also allow us to recognize Belgian responsibilities towards our colonial past.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u30	Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister, since the tabling of my question, the question of colonial memory has come back a little further on the stage, and I look forward to hearing you today. Here are some retroacts. In February 2017, the Greens tabled a motion for a resolution to implement a work of memory relating to our colonial past in the Congo, through the creation of an international working group to carry out research on structural phenomena related to colonialism. This proposal was co-signed by the PS Group. So we join on the goal. In March 2018, a detailed investigation by journalist Michel Bouffioux highlighted the presence of human remains in the collections of our federal scientific institutions. At the time, the director of the Royal Institute had been in favour of organizing the return of human remains corresponding to individuals identified and claimed by related persons. In September 2018, the Secretary of State in charge had announced the establishment of a working group composed solely of representatives of the scientific institutions concerned, in order to identify the avenues for solution and development of the legal framework for the possible repatriation of human remains, also in relation to European policy on the subject. It also considered that, if such restitution were to take place, it should take place in the context of an official ceremony so that today's Belgium could show a "respectful attitude" towards the families concerned and that our country clearly distanced itself from the acts committed at the time. On Friday, February 15, 2019, the ULB organized a very interesting symposium on these same human remains. On this occasion, some tensions were expressed between the Congolese descendants regarding the colonial past of Belgium and the ULB. The demand for a great deal of memory work as well as official excuses from Belgium resurfaces in the news. Prime Minister, is the government in favour of returning these human remains? Are you considering changing the legal framework for this purpose? According to what calendar? What is the status of the establishment of the working group announced by Ms. Demir? What are his missions? Will representatives of the African diaspora, Belgian and international experts and academics be invited to participate? Finally, are you in favour of holding an official apology for the painful events perpetrated by our representatives in this former colony?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u31	Mrs Grovonius, I have indeed used the words "very strange". I persist in their use! I want to give you some factual feedback. From 4 to 11 February 2019, a delegation from the Working Group of Experts on People of African Descent visited Belgium. This group of experts constitutes one of the 56 special human rights advisory procedures in Geneva and is independent of the United Nations human rights system. This group of experts was established in 2002 in the wake of the 2001 Durban International Conference against Racism, to which Belgium had made a very active contribution. Belgium also has an open invitation for these so-called special procedures. These visits are therefore regular. This is the fourth visit of these special commissions since 2015. The mandate of the expert group on people of African descent is to investigate racism, racial discrimination and Afrophobia affecting people of African descent in Belgium and elsewhere. This was the second visit of this working group to Belgium and, on that occasion, the five experts were also to examine developments since their last mission to Belgium in 2005. Other countries were also visited: the Netherlands, Spain or the United Kingdom. It is therefore not Belgium which is particularly targeted. I solemnly reaffirm that of course we are always open to debate and discussion. Evidence of this is that this delegation was received, for its public part, at various levels: Federal, Regional, Community, Communal, Saint-Gilles Prison, Federal Police, Centre for Equal Opportunities, Tervuren Museum. The expert group also met with NGOs and civil society associations. We do not know which part of their mission is confidential, which is normal. I note in passing that, according to our information – which is curious and even strange – no academic body would have been met during their mission. If that's right, you'll admit it's very strange! That would be a shame, for we do not lack academic specialists on issues of racism or on the question of the colonial history of Belgium. This expert group issued a press release and statement on Monday, February 11, 2019, which we took note of. The content of this summary for the press has left me at least perplexed, in particular the particularly aggressive and offensive tone towards our country. I am, of course, waiting to read the final report, since it is an interim report. On the basis of this provisional version, we will still have the opportunity to express our comments and our formal remarks; we will certainly do so. On the substance, Belgium, and not just this government and this legislature, has always tried to fight the various forms of discrimination. We must continue to do so. It's an uncompleted fight. The government recently issued royal decrees in connection with the fight against discrimination in hiring, in the context of so-called positive actions. We are, of course, aware, as Parliament is, that a great deal of work still needs to be done to reduce all forms of discrimination and racism. As far as memory work is concerned, we are also surprised at the presentation of things, which seems to us to be too unilateral. Belgium, at different times, has opened chapters for memory work. For example, several years ago, a parliamentary commission of inquiry was commissioned to determine the exact circumstances of Patrice Lumumba's death and the role Belgium played in this assassination. Another example is Belgium's cooperation in the investigation into the circumstances of the death of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Dag Hammarskjöld. The recently inaugurated renovation of the African Museum provided an opportunity to carry out this balanced work, with a focus on our past. Moreover, experts from around the world come to visit this museum in Tervuren to visualize the reforms that have been undertaken within the framework of this scientific institution, whose reputation is international. With regard to restitution, we have not waited for the report to take initiatives, since the previous Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, set up a working group specifically on the return of retained human remains. Analyses are under way to verify which legal framework applies and which avenues we can explore to evolve legal principles that are today constraints. On the other hand, the restitution of works is a debate that goes beyond the framework of Belgium; it is also taking place in other European countries. A number of initiatives have been taken by different departments. A distinction is made between the question of archives and that of works of art. The newly appointed Minister for Federal Scientific Institutions has recently had initial meetings with her department to consider the continuation of this debate. Finally, I agree with you on a subject at least. It is this idea that the colonial era of Belgium is part of our history as the colonial era is part of the history of other countries, including Europe. It goes without saying that this history must be seen in a broader international historical context. We do believe that scientists must play a leading role with objectivity, rigour and serenity to analyse this part of our history. In these political circumstances, it is up to Parliament, if it so wishes, to take initiatives on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u32	Prime Minister, thank you for these points of answer. Parliament has taken initiatives since last week we voted for a motion for a resolution by my excellent colleague, Mr Miller, on this important issue of the restitution of colonial works. I hear your interest in the scientific work on this issue. So I'm calling on you. The Socialist Group has tabled an amendment to set up a scientific working group which would allow Belgian and African experts to examine this issue with a view to changing our political and diplomatic debate on the subject. This amendment was not acceptable to the committee; I do not know why. However, I feel that it is clearly in line with what you are asking for. I hope, therefore, that you will be able to convince my colleagues to support this initiative aimed at ensuring that the Belgian and African academic and scientific authorities allow us to have tangible elements to make progress on this important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u33	Prime Minister, thank you for these points of answer. I note that you are interested in this issue and that we share the objective of this analysis and memory work. However, I did not hear you say whether or not you were open to a public apology, as you have just confirmed on the Métis issue. The question of colonial memory really comes back to the news through various doors, including by the amendment of my excellent Socialist colleague, in the excellent text of your colleague Miller. The Greens' proposal does not express itself on the substance or on how to interpret this colonial past, nor on the type of reparation, but offers a real consensus method by proposing a grouping plan. This will allow for a global recognition. I therefore invite you, as Prime Minister but above all as party president, to support the examination of this text, which is on the committee's agenda on 13 March. With five minutes of political courage, Parliament can, before the end of the legislature, adopt this text so that the next government can immediately get to work. I therefore count on your support, Mr. Party President and Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, I asked you twice, in 2017 and 2018, about your government's support for the Seine-Nord Europe Canal project, a project with important economic, social and ecological issues for Belgium and France. For the realization of this canal, work is required to develop and modernize the Scheldt River on its crossing of Tournai. Supporting this project means in plain terms that by supporting the Seine-Nord Canal, we agree de facto to touch the Pont des Trous. This file is initiated by the Walloon Region because this bridge does not belong to the city of Tournai but to the SPW Waterways. For your part, you have consistently stated that the whole of your government was in favour and supported this project, which, I repeat, implies the demolition of the bridge in question. The first phases of the canal's work are underway in Tournai and phase 4, which consists of modifying the Pont des Trous and its surroundings, will soon be carried out. The outline of the future Hole Bridge was carried out as part of a participatory process and adopted unanimously by the municipal council of Tournai on 27 June 2016. It was subsequently addressed to the Walloon Region, the owner of the bridge. On 13 February, on his Twitter account, Stéphane Bern, the famous French journalist and animator, signed the petition against the destruction of the Pont des Trous and asked you personally to avoid the destruction of the bridge and to review the ambitions of the Seine-Nord Canal. In addition, through a telephone interview broadcast on local Notélé television, the host explained that she had been contacted by Minister Marghem, who was "on the same wavelength". This intervention on the part of the minister has no other objective but to make a great deal of noise to make lose the UNESCO label of the cathedral and the belfry. Prime Minister, I would like you to share with me your reaction, following the inquiry of Stéphane Bern. Did you answer him? Do you continue to support the Seine-Nord Canal project and the development work inherent in this project? Were you aware that a member of your government had contacted the French facilitator against your own political line? Can I have your support from UNESCO to defend the Tournaise heritage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u35	Mr President, I regret not being a member of the municipal council of Tournai to conduct the debate on this subject. Mr Delannois, I used to react from time to time to the tweets of one of our Secretaries of State, but I did not expect to have to react equally to the tweets of a French television host. I can only confirm to you what I have expressed consistently for some time now: we support this project. We have had contacts with the French authorities on the subject. As we speak, the ball is still on the French side in terms of funding mechanisms. On the sidelines of a reception in Namur, I had the opportunity to meet with the President of the Hauts-de-France region, Xavier Bertrand, who confirmed to us his mobilization in an attempt to reach agreements with the French central State on the financing mechanisms. I confirm that the government supports this important project for the development of the whole area, in our interest and that of part of French territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u36	Prime Minister, it is true that you have always supported us. You just said "we support", I assume that the Michel-Marghem government supports the Seine-Nord project and, consequently, the restoration of the Pont des Trous. The problem is that we cannot be for each other! You understand that. Very honestly, I really feel sorry for you to work with some people! I've known that before you. It is not easy to work with someone who says white in the morning and is dark all day. Good luck!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u37	Mr Prime Minister, this is not a question about Tournai, but about political renewal, a subject on which we have had a regular exchange of views over recent years. A whole series of conclusions have been drawn in Parliament. The Working Party on Political Renewal has achieved a number of results, not all the results we wanted, but still some relevant breakthroughs. Sometimes they are created in Parliament, sometimes in the Conference of Presidents or in the Bureau, but sometimes they also need to be established in the government. On our question, a small month ago, the working group updated the state of play of the various recommendations. It appeared that a number of recommendations have not yet been fully implemented or have not yet been fully implemented. Although the government is only involved in a number of cases, it appears that just those cases have often remained and have not yet been implemented. For example, the protocol on the composition of the Cabinets has yet to be concluded. There was an agreement that this would happen according to the model of Flanders. I do not often refer to Flanders, but in this one Flanders is a good example. There is a protocol between the Flemish Parliament and the Flemish Government on the regular publication of the composition of the Cabinets. A similar idea was included in the package of the Working Party on Political Renewal. Earlier, the idea of a lobby register on the executive's activities has been called into question by a lack of cooperation. There is now a lobby register, with a lot of ifs and buts in Parliament, but even more relevant would be transparency at executive level. However, the government was not immediately the most constructive partner. I express myself with caution with this. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to focus on the state of play. I know that it has been agreed that Mr Vermeulen would write you a letter on behalf of the Working Party on Political Renewal to push you towards a number of measures. That agreement was made in the working group, but I did not want to wait for your reply to that letter to ask you what initiatives you will take as head of government to get all the recommendations, including those to which the government would cooperate, implemented before the end of the legislature. I know that you may refer to the websites of the various Cabinets for the composition of the Cabinets, but the agreement is that there will be a structural and formal report on the composition of the various Cabinets. This is also very important in view of the end of the cabinet period. I would remind you that there have also been debates, for example, about a cooling-off period. We have not reached agreement on this, but it is important that we know who is now working in a cabinet in order to be able to judge later whether or not people are making strange transfers to the private sector. I am very curious to hear your answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u38	Mr Calvo, the Committee on Political Renewal has indeed made progress and many of its decisions have now been implemented, for example on greater transparency about the fees, including for the cabinet staff. That decision entered into force in January 2019 and the relevant implementing measure has been approved. For example, the Court of Auditors' audit of the declaration and the list of mandates and assets has been strengthened and the sanctions will be applied more effectively. In addition, the remuneration of Members of Parliament and the President of the Chamber was also revised on the basis of stricter or more reasonable rules. On the basis of your question, I asked the Chancellery to provide Parliament, as in the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks, with a table showing a state of affairs, point by point, and recommendations to the government. This will give Parliament precise information on where we stand with the implementation of the measures to be taken by the government. I have a few comments to make. Unless I am mistaken, the lobby register was not a recommendation from the committee. I have already made it quite clear a few times that I was prepared to ask for an analysis of the Chancellery, what I have done, in order to have a full look at the matter and to see what possible initiatives could be taken if necessary to find a balance. After all, I have also given examples where discreet contacts are needed for economic reasons, for example in the context of the Brexit, but I am thinking of many other examples. In this context, a lobby register would be a brake on investment in Belgium. We therefore need to strike a balance, and that is an important point of attention for us. There are other points. For example, in Recommendation No. 48 of the committee asks you that the government make available to the Members at least 48 hours in advance the draft legislation with a major impact and the size of which requires longer preparation. That is one of the proposals. De facto, we note that this is rather a regulatory initiative for Parliament and the government. On the basis of practice over the last five years, I can say that there has only been one problem in this area. In practice, therefore, we already take good understanding into account and reason on the basis of common sense. Proposals were also made about cabinet staff for ministers. I asked the Chancellery to make a comparison between the Länder and the federal level. There are indeed differences and I have no difficulty in looking at them transparently. I will give you a few points of answer, but in order to respond more specifically to your questions, I asked for a table, following the same reasoning as in the Committee on Terrorism, to make a clear statement on the implementation of the government's part in the field of renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u39	Prime Minister, it was not my starting point to complain that the recommendations are not being implemented. Several recommendations have been formally implemented and a number of recommendations have already been respected in practice, such as the 48-hour recommendation. If we want to formalise the latter, it will indeed be an initiative of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and we do not need the government to do so. However, a number of other recommendations have not been accepted, and I am thinking in particular of two recommendations, although that will have to be further demonstrated by your table. I refer to the regime for cabinet employees of resigning ministers, with the question of how long it is going to run, to which you yourself have referred. I also mention transparency on the current composition of Cabinets. So I look forward to your table. I also know that your collaborator is following the Conference of Presidents, and I would appreciate it if you could have that table presented to the Conference of Presidents fairly quickly, also because there is little time left to take initiatives in this legislative period. I believe that this table can get to the conference quite quickly, that does not have to be a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u40	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u41	A working group is planned, but rather the intention was to bring the working group together when everything will be settled. It is therefore more interesting for you to share the table as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u42	Parliament shall organise its activities autonomously. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u43	Good. There's also a letter coming from the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u44	(...) Everything is on the website. There is full transparency, because everyone has access to the information via the website. I am therefore very surprised by that remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u45	On this point, there is an agreement to conclude a formal protocol between Parliament and the government. That is one of the recommendations that was still open in our table. I'm looking forward to the table. For me, the most important thing is to implement all the recommendations, because it was already a fragile balance. Let us see what remains to be done in the coming weeks. I look forward to your exercise on implementation and an exercise has also been made in the working group. Perhaps it would be interesting for your cabinet to ask for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u46	Of course, every Prime Minister's intention is to write a bit of history, but last week you set a special precedent, Prime Minister. In Belgium, there is no tradition of combining the prime ministership and the party presidency. One of your predecessors maintained it for 48 hours or 24 hours and saw quite quickly that it is not an ideal combination. Guy Verhofstadt is known as a great voluntarist. If he himself admits after 24 hours or 48 hours that it is not an obvious combination, that is significant. It was not only for many countrymen but also for us a remarkable choice that you will combine the mandate of Prime Minister with the party presidency in the coming months. I'm not interfering in the internal kitchen of the MR. That's for the party board of the MR. There is, however, a question for the Chamber. Prime Minister, although we are in a period of ongoing business, the combination is somewhat strange and not very healthy. We could even argue that, in a period of current affairs, a prime minister should be even more above the mêlée and, more importantly, the importance of the country rather than the interests of a party. It may be argued that they can be reconciled or must always be reconciled. However, the combination makes things very difficult, because these are two assignments with different finality and dynamics. In any case, our group is not an incredible fan of accumulations, nor is it a fan of accumulation. We have a certain view of a period of current affairs, namely that we should use them as much as possible. Moreover, there may also be a period of ongoing business after the elections, in which you can also play a part. Let us hope that the period of current affairs after the elections is not very long. During that period, too, both functions can meet, and not always in the best way. That is the political problem I wanted to raise. A formal problem has also been identified here and there. Because you're party chairman, you really choose camp. Even if you use the two most important national languages Dutch and French, you are French-speaking of birth. You are therefore assigned to a particular language. But what does that mean for parity in government? I am not a constitutional specialist, and I find it interesting to ask you in that regard. Mr Prime Minister, I am not under any illusions, and I think that the chance that you will offer your resignation today as party chairman of the MR seems rather small. However, I do not think the current situation is healthy. What are your arguments in this respect? It seems to me that it is your ability as Prime Minister. Will you continue this combination in a period of current or not long after the elections? I think it makes sense for me to ask questions about that. Does the accumulation have an impact on government parity? Did you seek legal advice on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is my intention from day one to commit myself to the general interests of our country. There is no doubt about that. Secondly, in many European countries, the Prime Minister is also in charge of his political family. This is true in the United Kingdom, Germany, Finland and so on. Thirdly, I have made it clear that this choice is limited in time and based on exceptional circumstances. As you know, I resigned at the end of December, after finding that there was no majority in Parliament to avoid ongoing cases, which I regret. I've tried that. I argued for that. I went to see the King and he accepted my resignation at the end of December. Fourthly, it is also my choice to be completely transparent. It's the choice not to be a hypocrite. I am not only Prime Minister in current affairs, I am also a political leader with an ambition for the future of our country. I can understand why a Prime Minister should not be active in an election campaign in your view, but that is not my view. I just think that a prime minister in the election campaign should send a clear message about how he sees the future of the country. In this dynamic, I do not want to participate in hypocrisy and I want to be completely transparent. I will take up this mandate for the formation of governments. One final point. In our federal model, with a federal government and states, it is also important that maximum coordination remains possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-26-54-commissie-ic1044x.u48	Mr Prime Minister, I am not entirely surprised at your answer, because I assumed that you would defend that slope. The opposite would have surprised me. However, I do not recognize myself in the argument. You refer to other European countries, but I think the Belgian model is much better in that respect. Our country is already a political system that is incredibly enraged. I am even thinking of the definition of participation and too little of a political system in which government and Parliament know their own dynamics. Your choice only strengthens Belgian participation and I regret that. You are right to say that there is a great deal of coordination and cooperation in our country. That is true, but I would prefer a Prime Minister who coordinates between policy levels rather than a Prime Minister who has to coordinate his own party and seeks balance, because the latter has certainly played a part. You say a prime minister can have a vision of the future for the country, which I agree with. However, you have been running for a long time with a party that will do everything in its power to talk down the premiership, the appearance of the federal level and the appearance of that position. That party is now even putting forward a candidate prime minister who hates and dislikes the country. However, you have ruled for a long time with that party, which looks down on the prime ministership. Our view of the federal level is completely different, because the prime ministership is about the future of the country. Because of the choice you make, you actually give priority to the future of your own party and your own personal future. A prime minister who is not party chairman is someone who is much more concerned with the future of the country. A Prime Minister, who is the chairman of the party, inevitably has the impression that party interests and personal interests prevail. I regret that, especially in a political context where there are parties who want to tackle the federal level, want to talk down. I think that a prime minister can be strong, even in current cases, but rather a full-time Prime Minister.
