ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u2	In accordance with the advice of the Conference of Presidents of December 18, 2019, I propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the following bills: - the draft law establishing the military contingent for the year 2020, Nos. 844/1 to 3; - the 2018 accounts, the 2019 budget adjustment and the 2020 budget of the House of Representatives and the financing of political parties, No. 866/1; - the 2018 accounts, adjustments to the 2018 and 2019 budgets and the 2020 budget proposals of the institutions receiving funding (Court of Auditors, Constitutional Court, Supreme Council of Justice, Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services, Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, Federal Ombudsmen, Data Protection Authority, Appointment Commissions for the Notariat, MRD Commission, Police Information Review Body, Federal Ethics Commission, Central Prison Supervisory Board), Nos. 867/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 December 2019, I propose that the following draft laws be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law establishing the military quota for the year 2020, Nos 844/1 to 3; - the accounts 2018, budget adjustment 2019 and budget 2020 of the Chamber of Representatives and the financing of the political parties, No. 866/1; - the accounts 2018, budgetary adjustments 2018 and 2019 and budget proposals 2020 of the institutions entitled to donate (Rekenhof, Constitutional Court, Supreme Court of Justice, Standing Supervisory Committee of the Police Services, Standing Supervisory Committee of the Intelligence and Security Services, Federal Ombudsmen, Data Protection Authority, Notarial Appointment Committees, BIM Commission, Police Information Control Body, Federal Deontological Commission, Central Prison Supervisory Board), Nos 867/1 to 3. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you place on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill confirming the royal decrees made under the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, Nos. 832/1 to 3. I also propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law ratifying the royal decrees adopted pursuant to the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and others by pipeline, Nos 832/1 to 3. That draft was dealt with and approved in committee. I do not see Mr Van Quickenborne, but can you confirm that it may be added, Mrs Van der Straeten?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u3	Mr President, this can be discussed in plenary shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u4	We shall, therefore, put that on the agenda. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u5	We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate to sit in replacement of Ms. Yasmine Kherbache, who was sworn in as a judge of the Constitutional Court on December 17, 2019. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Ms Yasmine Kherbache, who took the oath on 17 December 2019 as judge of the Constitutional Court. The alternate to replace her is Mr. Ben Segers, alternate electoral district of Antwerp. The successor who will replace her is Mr Ben Segers, successor to the Antwerp constituency. The powers of Mr. Ben Segers were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. The credentials of Mr Ben Segers were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I pray Mr. Ben Segers to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Ben Segers to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u6	Mr. Ben Segers will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Ben Segers will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u7	Minister, at a press conference earlier this week, following a meeting of the Foreign Ministers, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy made a remarkable statement. He accused the Flemish Justice of not paying attention to a European arrest warrant. Apart from the fact that we are very pleased that, according to the High Representative, the Länder already have full competence, it is, of course, outrageous that after three Spanish ministers, the Spanish Commissioner is now also making statements about our justice. Of course, it is not for the Commission to make these political statements. Moreover, it is completely contrary to the separation of powers. So clearly we have a political problem here. I would like to put this question to Mrs Wilmès because she is our highest political voice on the European stage. She wouldn't answer my question. That is why I am happy to put my question to you, Minister. Do you agree that this ruling is completely contrary to the separation of powers? If so, are you prepared to send an official letter to committee chairman von der Leyen to call her Commissioner to order?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u8	Mrs Van Bossuyt, Deputy Prime Minister Geens is also responsible for European Affairs. Minister, you have full competence in current matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u9	Thank you, Mr President, for your kind introduction once again. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I too was surprised to hear the statements made by the High Representative for European foreign policy, also Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Josep Borrell, at his press conference following the ASEM Summit in Madrid last weekend. It is clear that such statements, when they come from a High Representative for European foreign policy, are even more inappropriate than usual, both in terms of opportunity and in terms of form and content. That is why I, together with my colleague for Foreign Affairs, Philippe Goffin, immediately decided to instruct our permanent representation to the European Union to make a diplomatic démarche. That démarche is being organized today and will show us total incomprehension of Mr Borrell's statements. I would like to inform you that the European Commission spokesperson, Mr Borrell, is also a Member of the Commission, who yesterday qualified the statements of the Vice-President of the European Commission as personal. Once again, the spokesman stressed the independence of the judiciary in this matter. Mr President, I apologise for losing my response to my paperwork, but this is too important to improvise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for the official action you have apparently taken. I am pleased that you emphasise the independence of our judiciary and thus the importance of respect for the judiciary. I would therefore very much like to move on to the very important ruling of the European Court of Justice today, in which the Court states that the former Vice-President of Catalonia, Mr Junqueras, who was imprisoned, does have immunity and must therefore be able to take up his mandate in the European Parliament. I hope that you will defend the same respect for the judiciary in this respect with your Spanish colleague, so that this judgment can also be given full power.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u11	Mr President, Minister, it is unfortunately well known that Antwerp, especially the port of Antwerp, is the driving force behind the international trade in cocaine. Of course, that brings with it the necessary violence. Grenade explosions, shootings and arson attacks are very common in Antwerp. It could almost be said that Antwerp is the city of a thousand bombs and grenades. It is therefore good that in early 2018, in particular in February 2018, the Stroomplan was proposed and that good cooperation between the parquet, federal and local police, customs and social inspection was established. Tomorrow, the Power Plan will be evaluated. My questions are as follows. How do you see the evaluation? Who was involved in the evaluation? Have there been any initial findings from the evaluation of the Power Plan? What further efforts will be needed? Do you see any adjustments that are needed? How does cooperation between the police, customs, police and social inspection proceed so far? Any results? Any priors? Have any networks been rolled up yet? How do you evaluate the Power Plan as a whole? Finally, international cooperation is, of course, also needed to tackle the drug gangs. Can you tell me more about the cooperation with the Netherlands, in particular within the framework of the Kempen-Maasplan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u12	Mr President, Mrs Lanjri, two things are very important in the Stroomplan: on the one hand multidisciplinary cooperation and on the other hand international cooperation. With the Power Plan, we are really trying to bring about a 360° approach through cooperation between local services, regional and federal services, in all possible ways, in the so-called Kaliteam. You know that Antwerp itself plays a prominent role in this with the mayor. The federal judicial police, too, have spent 304,000 hours fighting drugs in Antwerp in the presence of the Minister of the Interior, Mr De Crem, which is 11% of its total capacity. In the province of Antwerp alone, 7,000 drug possession facts and 150 drug manufacturing facts were registered in 2018. In Limburg there are more than in Antwerp: 222 facts of drug manufacturing. We are also trying to take a more targeted approach to money laundering offences by confiscating as much as possible, even abroad. As you know, I have already consulted the Moroccan authorities on this matter on several occasions, in the hope of making serious progress. This morning, the Attorney General assured me that cooperation between the police and the courts is improving. That was very reassuring for me. On the ground the results are noticeable, witnessing huge seizures over the past few days. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, together with Mr De Crem and all our services, I recently met the Dutch Minister of Justice, Mr Grapperhaus, to cooperate even better in the Kempen-Maas region, especially in the field of pluffing, motorcycle gangs, but mainly drugs, dumping of drug waste and synthetic drugs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u13	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is true that we can only tackle the drug gangs through intensive cooperation and that this cooperation is necessary not only in Belgium between the local and federal levels and between the different services, but also internationally. It is good that you have taken a number of initiatives in this regard. It is important, however, that these efforts are sustained. This may be a message to the next government to make vigorous efforts in this regard. After all, every day we see these acts of violence in our city, which should not be allowed. I therefore hope that, on the basis of the evaluation of the Power Plan, which will take place tomorrow, we will be able to draw the necessary conclusions and adjust the policy where necessary. I will certainly question you again later, perhaps in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u14	Mr President, Minister, with regard to corporate tax reform, your predecessor, Johan Van Overtveldt (N-VA), has always argued that it is fiscally neutral. In succession, you repeated: "It is budgetaryly neutral, it is budgetaryly neutral, it is budgetaryly neutral." Two months ago, my colleague Hedebouw asked you about this right here, and you said, "Mr Hedebouw, let me still, when you quote figures from the PTB's study service, have doubts." Today, however, it is the National Bank that publishes figures and it is not dependent on the PTB. It notes that in 2018, corporate tax fell by 3.2% compared to 2017. This represents a decrease of half a billion euros. The real rate is falling by 10%. Thus, pre-tax profits are increasing, while corporate taxes are decreasing. What is the cause of this decline? According to the National Bank, "in 2018, the corporate tax reform, by lowering the basic tax rate and the additional crisis contribution, supported the financial profitability of companies". Minister, there is no budgetary neutrality. And we are not yet half the way because further declines are announced. Minister, have you been wrong or have you lied?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u15	Mr Van Hees, it is true that this time you are quoting figures that are more reliable than those of the previous time, but when you quote them, you have to do it properly. Indeed, you are using an analysis of the National Bank's annual accounts which, for example, does not take into account – these are partial figures – what are known as role-extract warnings that have not yet been received for 2019. This means that you compare the total of 2017 with 82% of the total 2018. It is clear that you are comparing apples and pears! If you want to use numbers, I'll give you one. These figures come from the National Bank, which compares corporate income as a percentage of GDP. In 2017, they stood at 4.1% and in 2018 at 4.3%. This is therefore an increase. With regard to direct business taxes, the Plan Office is talking about 18 million in 2017 which is increasing to 20 million in 2018. You're saying the rates are down. It is true that facial rates have fallen. That was the point, by the way. A shift tax has been developed from small to large companies with a minimum tax for large companies, but the base has been expanded. The facial rate has decreased. The base has become wider. In my view, this is very economically sound. What you have just said is what I will call the PTB law a little bit: no tax will ever be high enough. You want every tax to be always higher, higher, higher. You want a social paradise. I'm not against it, but a social paradise on an economic cemetery, it's never going to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u16	Minister, it is true that the PTB wants a social paradise. You want a tax haven for multinationals and a tax hell for workers! That is the reality! Workers pay more VAT and more excise duties. Now you're up. Your policy is incredible! The National Bank shows that this reform is not budget neutral and you question the figures of the National Bank. You say it's a bad sample, etc. You had already betrayed the reality of the minimum rate of 7.5%. You said all companies would pay at least 7.5%. You've been shown that this too, it's not true. Clearly, you don't have any money for social. You don't have any money for pensions. You don't have any money to raise allowances above the poverty line. When you vote for white blouses, you resent and vote against. But to give gifts to multinationals, there you still have far too much money: half a billion this year and since we are only halfway, it will be a billion missing next year. You are the government of the rich, minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u17	Mr Minister, since 1 January 2016, VAT has been payable on plastic surgery with aesthetic character. This is linked to a number of conditions. For example, the procedure must be carried out by doctors and not by dentists, for example. It should also be those acts which do not appear in the RIZIV nomenclature. As a result, there are actually two types of intervention when it comes to plastic surgery. On the one hand, there are interventions for which no VAT is due, for example breast reconstruction after breast cancer. On the other hand, there are interventions for which VAT is due, for example the classic facelift. A number of actors have moved to the Constitutional Court because of this distinction. The court finally destroyed those provisions on 5 December. At the same time, it argued that the effects of the contested provisions were preserved until 1 October. This now creates a lot of uncertainty for doctors, hospitals and dentists. Minister, what are the concrete consequences of VAT for the actors? How and when will you inform the relevant actors about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u18	The provision challenged before the Constitutional Court concerns a VAT exemption that has been amended since 1 January 2016. The court has made a modulated decision, starting from 1 October 2019. It is a complex matter on which my cabinet will consult with the FPS Finance and the FPS Health Department. As far as osteopaths and chiropractors are concerned, it is said that this exemption cannot be simply rejected on the basis that performance is not recognised. After all, we need to look at the qualifications needed to be able to exercise the profession properly. But these necessary qualifications are not defined today in the field of Health. So there is a certain ambiguity in that. We will send out an initial communication on the practical consequences in the first weeks of 2020. So you can expect it at the beginning of January. It is also clear that a legislative initiative will be needed. There has been an amendment of the law and the Constitutional Court now has a number of comments on it. I will come forward with a legislative initiative as soon as possible. In any event, on the basis of the rulings of the Constitutional Court, certain medical service providers may begin to apply the tax deduction for their own investments. We will try to clarify and amend the legislation as soon as possible, so that the period of uncertainty is as short as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u19	Thank you very much for the answer, Minister. I note that there will soon be clarity. In this communication I call for a very clear and concrete picture of the situation, both to plastic surgeons and to dentists, who may now suddenly be subject to VAT. CD&V also points to the difficulty of discerning whether or not an intervention has an aesthetic character. It will be necessary to make certain observations. The question arises as to whether a tax administration can do so or whether doctors should be appointed to do so. Of course, the patient secret is also involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u20	Mr Minister, in fact this is not a question, it is a cry for help. For years we have been aware of the problem of transmigrants in our ports and, above all, along our motorways. We have placed fences, but they are destroyed. We've locked up parking lots and opened up again. We've planted cameras. We've deployed dog brigades. We've deployed extra patrols from the police. The only thing that's happened is that the problem has moved. We closed Jabbeke. After Jabbeke came Westkerke. Westkerke opened up again and was given permanent surveillance for a while. Now we are sitting with the fried pears in Mannekensvere, and, let me talk about our own house, in Middelkerke. The situation has become so bad that people are likely to be run over, because they cross the road, not with dozens but with hundreds. They are even fitted with the tram. They're breaking into villas. There is a break-in in holiday homes, not only in Middelkerke but also in Nieuwpoort and its environs. And those people are left virtually untouched. That is a very big problem. What will you do in concrete terms, Minister? I believe that the only solution is for private dog brigades to be permanently present. A second solution would, of course, be permanent police surveillance. That is my question for the future. I know the big blame is not with the police, but here in this Chamber, where one should change the law, so that the policemen do not have to mop up with the tap open. Now at most they can pick up those people and give them a note to leave the country. We see in the statistics that this is not happening today. Barely one-fifth does. In the Chamber, laws should be passed so that transmigrants can be apprehended, because those people do not want asylum, and that they may be imprisoned until they have been repatriated. Then that problem is solved. Mr President, what will you do about the problems of the Mannekensvere gas station in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u21	Mr Dedecker, since 1 December 500 transmigrants have been intercepted and arrested in the territory of our country. More than 1,000 police officers have been active on this particular issue since 1 December. That is about as many as the number of police officers who are supporting the BOB campaigns these days. I was at the Brussels-North station the day before yesterday. I was also on the territory of the province of Hainaut, which is also affected by this problem. Last night and last night I was in Wijnegem and in the Antwerp area. I went to see you on March 21st, too. You were also invited to look very closely at the problems of Mannekensvere and Middelkerke. You are now focusing on Mannekensvere. Right now, you say, you're crying out. But I would like to tell you that we have turned the light on transmigration and on trafficking in human beings. Last night, I saw myself how 25 illegal transmigrants were arrested. One human trafficker was also arrested, brought to justice and will be convicted. These are very important matters. Secondly, as far as the problem at Mannekensvere is concerned, you know that the management of the parking facilities has ended up in the Flemish Region, which is responsible for surveillance, surveillance services, private security services, closures and camera surveillance, which is a huge task. But there is more, you can also participate in such actions with your police zone and with the services under your zone and with your police officers if you think it would be insufficient. There is indeed a big problem, I agree with that. I deal with that very strictly at this time, no matter how difficult it is, because it's always about people. It is not right to give the impression that nothing would happen. Furthermore, I would stress that there are agreements with abroad and that, within the scope of the Schengen Agreement, there will be additional border controls until 31 December. The problem is well known: we have mapped it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u22	Mr Minister, I am not insinuating that nothing is happening, quite the contrary. There is a very good cooperation, even with Texaco and with the governor, but it is a problem of the law. However, you are wrong, because it is indeed Road and Traffic that has to do it, but that agency also pays for it, for example for the brigades on the field, but it is the police that decides where they are going. As far as the local police are concerned, I would like to make a comment. It is limited in the number of men at its disposal. How are the police reacting today? The Warmest Week takes place in Kortrijk and the municipality of Middelkerke is obliged to supply nine agents for De Warmest Week in Kortrijk, while we cannot control our own crime of the transmigrants themselves. That is also a problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u23	Mr President, Mr Minister, it appears from some sources that 75% of Brussels-based applicants for permanent airport badges are denied accreditation, which is, however, essential for employment at Brussels-National Airport. These 75 per cent of Brussels applicants would themselves represent 50 to 75 per cent of the files that would be rejected at the security level for the application for a permanent airport badge. And this, despite the fact that they're handing over an extract of the criminal record in good form. This is a very worrying situation up to the Flemish employer, VOKA, who has been moved by this situation concerning employment and economic activity at the Brussels-National airport. While the security of our national infrastructure is a concern of all, the necessary discretion surrounding security screenings itself must not create doubt as to possible – I say "possibly" – discrimination against certain Belgians in the context of access to certain jobs. The competence around these security measures is obviously shared by many actors. But as Minister of the Interior and Security, it is up to me to ask you the following questions. Minister, do you confirm this rate of rejection of Brussels workers' applications? If so, how do you explain them? Is the situation comparable at other airports (Liège, Charleroi or Antwerp) with regard to the rejection rate of applicants from large neighbouring cities? The question of the criteria surrounding these security screenings carried out by the National Security Authority (ANS) on the basis of information from the Federal Police and the intelligence services also arises. What are these criteria? Do you intend to work on these criteria to strike the right balance between security, economic activity and respect for fundamental rights? In cooperation with which authorities (including regional authorities)?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out to you that the issue of access badges is the responsibility of the National Security Authority. The competent authority shall issue or withdraw clearances, certificates and safety notices. The NSA is also responsible for the management and protection of classified information in Belgium. It is a body that reports to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and was successively managed by Ambassador De Maesschalck and Ambassador Baekelandt. I would like to point out that the federal police simply give an opinion on these requests, as is the case with other NSA support services. These include intelligence services, the Crisis Centre and the Federal Public Services Department of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Economy and Mobility. The opinion of the Federal Police is given by the Screening Service which follows the same procedure for each notice to be given. This service therefore does not treat any request in a discriminatory manner. With regard to the opinions of the federal police, I repeat that there is no question of any discrimination. Moreover, as I have just said, the ultimate responsibility lies with the NSA and therefore does not fall directly within my competence. Finally, I can tell you that the provision of the opinion by the NSA is based on an inquiry into the morality of the applicant and a screening of himself and his environment, which seems obvious to me and which very often gives rise to a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u25	Minister, thank you. However, listening to your answer, I am not quite confident because, apart from retraceing my history and telling me that the federal police is not competent and that the NSA is doing the work, you are not finally indicating anything about the practical consequences of this work, namely 75% refusal for workers from the Brussels Region because of their membership in this geographical area. I didn't hear anything about it at all. As I told you, security issues are important to us. But they must be based on clear, precise, defined criteria which absolutely cannot lead to discriminatory consequences for workers in Brussels or in metropolitan areas. I was listening and I was finally reading the federal police's response, which said that it was hoping to reduce the proportion of rejected files but that it was not possible at present to give a margin. I hear there's a deep malaise in the federal police. There is a great silence on your part and absolutely no solution in perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u26	Mrs De Block, I also asked you a question last week about the failed return policy, but then you refused to answer. In the meantime, however, the problem has become so great that this morning the VRT, even the VRT, complained that the return policy in this country is going completely wrong. As many as 80% of illegal immigrants who are ordered to leave the Belgian territory will remain in our country. They know they can just ignore that order. To make you realize how disastrous that is, let me make a brief comparison. Soon it will be New Year's Eve in the beautiful Molenbeek. If these Molenbeek young people are going out to celebrate, if they set fire to cars and raid shops and they already know in advance that there is almost no chance of them being prosecuted, do you think, Mrs De Block, that they will restrain themselves or do you think they will let go completely? If we give the police no more opportunity to punish criminals or give the tax authorities no opportunity to punish fraudsters, do you think they will be able to pursue a successful policy? We all know the answer to that question. Well, the same thing happens to illegal migrants in our country, Mrs De Block. Even if they know that they will never get asylum here, they will continue to come massively, because they know that you will never send them back. What will you do to reverse that? What will you do to actually implement that so-called master plan Return at last? Behind me the Socialists are already rubbing their hands, because all the illegal immigrants who you and Mr Francken have never dared to expel will soon give Belgian nationality to the Socialists. The fact that the native Flame will disappear and be replaced by it will be a sausage to the socialists if they can fill their pockets a little longer thanks to that new electoral cattle. You're an accessory to that, Mrs. De Block. If you carry on like this, there will soon be more illegals in our country than voters for Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u27	Madam Minister, what we need in this asylum crisis is action and not words. Your words were already in the media. You say you want to do more about the return, a difficult matter, but for the time being the actions are not going to be done. I would therefore like to ask why you yourself have proposed and implemented to save 30% in the department responsible for the return. Why did you vote against Mr Sander Loones' amendment, which just asked for more resources to be made available for return? The Magnette note is really disturbing. What will you do to strictly implement the master plan closed centers anyway? Are you still behind that? Can you reassure us here? What are you doing to shorten the lengthy procedures? Mr Christoph D'Haese has put forward a concrete proposal that reduces the period of time for appeal, so that more room is available in the closed centres. Will you support that proposal or have you proposed it yourself? We have another proposal to shorten the lead time. In doing so, we are asking for an evaluation of the Council of Foreign Ministers and its judges, which has also recently proved problematic. Do you agree? More can also be done with regard to illegal aliens. We have already put forward the proposal to check and arrest them at their place of residence with a view to repatriation. Why don't you put that arrangement in place? Finally, for us, the focus should be on sending back illegal criminals. Among our colleague Theo Francken, the figures rose from a few 100 a year to as much as 1,600 a year. That's even more than Salvini performed. Mr Francken worked on readmission agreements and ensured that illegal criminals were consistently put on the plane and returned. Under your flag, the numbers are stagnated. Why don't you just step up? Where are your actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u28	Madam Secretary, the VRT indeed calculated what we already knew. 80% of rejected asylum seekers ignore the order to leave Belgian territory. This is not only established in Belgium. This figure is equally high in other European countries. Return policy is the culmination of an effective asylum and migration policy. The Open Vld has been advocating for years a quality and sustainable return policy based on the simple principle of 'voluntary if possible, forced if necessary'. Return policy is based on a number of pillars, such as promoting voluntary return, increasing forced return and eliminating abuses. Since voluntary return policies do not work well enough, more will have to be devoted to forced return. The law is the law. It is therefore also important that there should be more places in closed centres and that this capacity should be fully filled in. Additional staff will also be needed to man those closed centres. Madam Secretary, I have two specific questions. Why do not the orders lead to an effective return? What measures have you already taken and what will you take to increase the number of asylum seekers who are effectively returning?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u29	Three questions, three minutes should suffice for the answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, a comparison is being made today in the media between the number of orders to leave the territory and the number of people who do this effectively in an official way. I agree that more people need to return. However, this is a complex issue. The comparison between these two figures cannot simply be made. Mr Van Langenhove, one person can get more than one order to leave the territory, just as a native Belgian can do more than one traffic offence. There's no one-on-one connection between them. Not every return is recorded. For example, people travelling to another European country are not registered. People who voluntarily return will not be registered either. They are not included in the statistics on forced return, not even in the context of the Dublin return. People are also reapplying or starting a new procedure. Mrs Van Camp, measures can indeed be taken in this area. If you submit legal measures, I will give you my support. However, I would point out to you that we have them examined and that they do not always turn out to be legally binding. The return budget has not been reduced. Why is a lower number registered for this? We have deployed someone to fill in the applications to Frontex in order to obtain financial support from Frontex and thus bring more people back. This means that we have to spend less budget, but can actually bring back more people. So that's worth the investment. It is important that we always offer voluntary return, even when people are re-arrested. We have also recently adopted some new follow-up mechanisms, including the outreach. There is also more intensive cooperation with cities and municipalities so that everyone gives the same story about the return. In this way, it is not given the signal that someone has been given an order, but can still stay. In this way it can also be avoided that the message is not clear. It is also explained to those concerned that, if they do not return voluntarily, they will be forced to do so. In order for the forced return to run smoothly, we need more places. The number of places that could be used has fallen because they were also used for the transmigrants and had to be kept free. I have to say that the rate of return in this area was very small. That is why, together with Mr De Crem, I have taken measures in this area. It is certainly necessary to carry out that master plan further, along with the Government of the Buildings. There a number of big surprises have come out of the closet, including a budget overrun of 50%. That's what we need to figure out with the next government. As former Minister for Asylum and Migration, I have worked out the cooperation agreement with Mrs Turtelboom on the return of illegal criminals. This was then carried out further by your colleague, Mr Francken. That can also be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u31	Mrs De Block, in the closed return centres, barely 100 places were created in five years' time. In the reception centres for new asylum seekers 500 to 600 places per month have been added in recent months. If it is to increase the influx of new migrants to Belgium, then anything can be done. If it's to increase the outflow, then there can be nothing. Fortunately, Mrs De Block, we are still in a position to rectify the situation, but we urgently need to take five more important steps. First of all, at last shorten the procedures. Secondly, take advantage of the abuse of appeal procedures. Thirdly, drastically increase the capacity of the closed return centres. Fourth, actively track down illegals. Fifth and very important, conclude more return agreements. Do so by applying economic pressure. If an African country does not want to take back its criminal aliens or illegals, then that country should not get any Belgian development aid. It's time to put your hands together. Clock's ticking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u32	Madam Secretary, I'm glad you think you can do better. This is really necessary not only in terms of the outflow but also of the influx. It's time for action. We need to tackle illegal migration. Indeed, as you acknowledge, a great deal has already been done under Mr Francken to tighten up migration laws. We shall continue to do so in Parliament. I have here our proposal for the strengthening of family reunification, for the tightening of the income guarantee and for the shortening of the derogation period, as the European laws allow us perfectly. That was also recognised in the hearings. You ask for final proposals, here they are: introduce quotas, no more automatic stay after the judgment in the Diallo case and the case X. You are asking for final proposals, I have a whole stack of them: integration and language in the country of origin, increased fees, loopholes closed. I have more, but I knew I wouldn't come with my one-minute reply. I am therefore pleased that you acknowledge that there is work to be done, Madam Secretary. Let us work together. Together we can increase the outflow and reduce the influx. I wish you all a very happy Christmas leave, but I hope we can agree to approve this whole bundle by 2020, as well as many more measures that we have on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u33	Madam Minister, I am pleased that the budgets have not been reduced, as you have explained, and that capacity is being increased in the closed centres. You also rightly pointed to the read mission agreements, which we need to use even more. Finally, we must also eliminate abuses, because that is the only way we can pursue a strict and fair return policy: voluntary if we can, forced if we have to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u34	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, hospitalisation with overnight stay costs, on average, some 278 euros in our country. If a patient also stays in a single room, the costs for him or her will soon rise to more than 1,600 euros. That is a multiplication by a factor of almost six, Madam Secretary. This cost increase is almost exclusively attributable to the room supplements and the fee supplements. Colleagues, if you thought you could escape the towering invoices by having you booked in multi-person rooms, you'd be in for the trouble. In these rooms too, the costs are quickly very high, because dark, sometimes misty, non-refundable fees are included. If we do the analysis, we have to find out very quickly that the doctors and hospitals have become very inventive and creative in terms of inventing all kinds of costs and generating revenue. Those who want to enjoy the best framework, must obviously be very deep in their pockets. In this way, we risk getting bogged down in a two-speed healthcare system: one for whom it can pay and one for whom it cannot pay. I do not think that is the intention, Madam Minister, and that is why I have a number of pertinent questions. Madam Minister, first of all, how do you view the creative supplements charged by hospitals and doctors? Secondly, what are your views on banning pay supplements? Finally, how do you view a ban on room supplements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u35	It is, of course, not intended that the rising costs for the patient jeopardise access to care. That is why the funding of hospitals in this legislature has been addressed. It is a so-called wicked problem: everyone agrees that it has to be different, but how it should be, is less clear. Anyone who is familiar with hospital funding realizes that this is not going to change in a few months. However, we have taken very important steps. Simple solutions such as the abolition of supplements without further ado are likely to make the problem even worse. So we have opted for a step-by-step approach to hospital funding, supported by scientific study work from the Knowledge Centre. There is the new funding for low variable care, which applies to 57 common patient groups. For the first time, the same price is paid throughout our country for the same procedure, in which hospital in any region one is a patient. This measure has been applicable since 1 January 2019, so its impact is not yet visible in the hospital barometer. In the future, there will be an extension for implants, medicines and residence among others. Measures have also been taken to reduce the wage supplements. They have been abolished everywhere, except in the single rooms. Also for day hospitalization they are only possible in single rooms. There is now also a working group at the Medicomut committee, where the hospital sector is discussing and making proposals for the future. The health insurance funds are involved in this. The proposal should not mean a normal freeze, as this would maintain the differences between hospitals. As far as non-reimbursable costs are concerned, all kinds of creative terms are used, such as comfort costs, I advise people to have their invoice checked first by the sickness fund. The sickness fund may then establish that the costs in question have no legal basis and are wrongly invoiced. The parties concerned may then have their invoice adjusted. That's what they have to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your interesting answer. For the Flemish interest, it is already clear: we oppose a two-speed healthcare system in every possible way, against a health care system where the best framework is reserved only for those who can afford it. We must stop all the creative supplements charged by hospitals and doctors. Madam Secretary, we believe that there should be a ban on pay supplements and on room supplements. Colleagues, more even, for the Flemish interest, it is clear that there must be a maximum invoice, including in hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u37	Mr Minister, this morning more than two thirds of the trains were not run out because a large part of the staff of SNCB had left the work. Of course, that is very annoying for all those people who rely on the train, for example to go to work. Take it from me that the railmen and women who have chosen not to work today are aware of that. They want to make sure that the 950,000 people who take the train every working day can count on it, that they can count on enough trains, trains that run on the spot, that are comfortable, that are accessible and affordable for everyone. The railers and women just want to do their job. Only, Minister, do you make things very difficult for them, almost impossible. Because what do they need to do their job? Firstly, a government with a vision for the future on the trail. A government is there, there was, but there has never been a vision. Secondly, means of driving the trains. You didn't make an investment plan. You saved EUR 3 billion on the track. Thirdly, a fair wage for work. Did you know that the productivity of SNCB has increased by 20% in recent years? This increase means that much more work is being done by fewer people, because the workforce has been reduced. Well, if at some point 1.1 % increase in productivity in exchange for 20% is too much to ask, then I understand that the bucket is full, then I understand the anger and disappointment of the staff. Minister, I expect you to show understanding. That would be an important signal. I'd like to ask you, what signal are you sending? What answer do you give to the requirements of SNCB's staff to ensure that the social dialogue can be restarted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u38	Mr Minister, there is another strike today at SNCB, another strike against change and for the preservation of countless benefits. The railroad unions are trying to take the country hostage and take it down. I do say 'try', because thanks, among other things, to the work of our group in the previous legislature, the country is not flat. Thanks to the guaranteed service, about one in three trains run and people still get to work. The trade unions are opposed to a draft social protocol agreement. They are opposed to the unitary status, to the proposals of the Executive Board to make the Staff Regulations somewhat more modern. They are for the existing 36-hour week, the 60-day leave per year, the rigid status or the amalgamation of premiums to just do their job. That is hallucinating, knowing that there are 50 people working full-time every day just to book in the premiums and the tangle of other allowances. In the meantime, the SNCB top lady has already understood it. She knows very well why she needs to reform. SNCB must be able to compete, probably with other operators in the future, but primarily by car, in order to provide a solution for the associated traffic jams. SNCB needs a level playing field and the same weapons as competition, but today we do not seem to be standing anywhere. In a European, open and liberalised market, the traveller must be at the centre, otherwise SNCB is heading for a crash, a Sabena 2.0. It is time to bring the Staff Regulations, the number of staff and the efficiency of SNCB into line with those of European competitors, otherwise it will cease to exist. Dear Minister, who is leading SNCB into the 21st century? I expect a clear signal from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u39	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, how can we not agree with strikers when we know that in 18 years the number of SNCB travellers has increased by 60% and that, at the same time, staff has been reduced by 30%? How can we not stand up to the 21% reduction – in five years – in the investment allocation to SNCB, when we know that it is essential to ensure the safety of commuters? The recent judicial decision on the Buizingen disaster has rightly reminded us of this. Today, the day-to-day reality of SNCB officers is to do more with less, to refuse their leave requests, to run the risk of being assaulted both verbally and physically. This is why workers are very legitimately asking for an increase in wages, which is always refused to them, as well as for the maintenance of working time at 36 hours for all, otherwise the recruitment of agents will be jeopardized. These demands, Minister, seem to me quite legitimate and must be heard for the well-being of workers, but also for the well-being of commuters. Minister, my questions are very simple. How do you respond to SNCB's strikers? Are there any meetings with the unions planned? How do you explain that the federal investment allocation has been steadily reduced throughout the previous Parliament, while the number of travellers is constantly increasing? What about the procedure for liberalising rail, which is planned in the near future, as we know? How will SNCB be able to compete with private actors, with ever-declining human and financial resources from year to year?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since Wednesday at 10 p.m., the guaranteed service has once again been applicable throughout the Belgian network. We can welcome this legislation that we passed in the previous legislature because it provides a service to commuters. My son was able to go to university this morning, by train, thanks to the service that was planned. Today, relations between the unions and the management of SNCB are growing. Indeed, they are trying to put pressure on the management of SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail. The union requests relate to various items that I will not go back to. Management, for its part, is trying to increase performance somewhat, given the context of liberalisation which will be inevitable in a few years' time. It is really necessary for the rail sector to develop new strategies, without the commuters being taken hostage by the unions. Minister, my questions are very simple. What is your assessment of the guaranteed service that is applicable today? What is your opinion on the existing social conflict?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u41	Mr Minister, today the railwaymen do not strike for themselves, this movement concerns us all. It is a day to remember that the three billion savings imposed on rail are harming us now and will continue to do so if we do not react. It is also a day to remember that, in the face of global warming, it is necessary to reinvest in rail, both in structures and in its personnel. This morning, at the Brussels-Midi station, I met the workers of SNCB and Infrabel. They don't believe in Santa anymore, minister. They just want to work in conditions that guarantee their safety and that of commuters. There's an emergency! The time at all at the car is over. The train must no longer be a simple means of transport that we are trying to refit, but the heart of our mobility. It is time to recognize the place of rail workers and the sacrifices made in recent years. Minister, what legitimacy do you give to rail workers? Are you aware that this strike movement is the direct result of the three billion savings imposed on rail? Do you recognize the risks to everyone's safety when a railway worker works more than twenty non-stop days?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u42	Minister, the working conditions of railway workers are sometimes very complicated. The anonymous testimony of a train attendant this Wednesday in La Libre is quite upbuilding about it. The drastic savings imposed by your government are not likely to improve the situation. In particular, the pilot project of shift services in signal booths poses enormous security problems and runs counter to the recommendations of the Buizingen Commission of Inquiry and the judgment delivered at the beginning of December. These workers are humans, not infallible robots! Asking for each second to be vigilant for 12 hours places a huge responsibility on their shoulders. Minister, do you intend to continue on this path, to the detriment of the safety of users and staff? Finally, according to CGSP Chemots, Infrabel's boss would have negotiated an 8% bonus to carry out the company's day-to-day business, pending a full-exercise government that could initiate the renewal or replacement process. Do you confirm this information? Do you think that this request is such as to make social dialogue more serene?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I also went to the picket this morning and I have the impression that trade unionists are more concerned about travellers than politicians and bosses. In 20 years the number of travellers has doubled. The logical consequence should be greater investment in trains, in extra safety, in more staff and in more staffed counters. That would make sense for a company that's growing. What do we see, however? Just the opposite. This government looked at it like a cow at a train. The amount has been reduced by EUR 3 billion and 5,000 jobs have disappeared. As a result, the productivity of the workforce increased by 20%. SNCB is thus the mother of productivity growth, except for management. That's an exception. If the management of SNCB and Infrabel were to be reduced to one company with one management, a great deal could be saved. Today, the railmen and women are pulling the emergency brake. What the workers are asking for is that trains should be able to run on time and that there should be sufficient staff to enable them to do their job safely. Is that too much to ask? We call for more funding. There is an under-financing of the railways and it costs people's lives. Or have we forgotten the condemnation of SNCB and Infrabel for the Buizingen train disaster? Sending a conductor with a locomotive that's been through the moon landing is murderous and is a logical consequence of the underfunding. It's okay to be clear. Saving on public transport is deadly, deadly for the service, deadly for the passengers and deadly for the workers. So, Minister, I have the following questions for you. Will you take responsibility for the employees and will you ensure that there are enough staff so that they can do their job matchable? Is it true that Infrabel's CEO asked for a wage premium of 8 %?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u44	Minister, at the end of the year in this Chamber, it is becoming a real tradition to look at trade union actions. These SNCB-related factors are not uncommon. I usually think that traditions are there to be maintained, but I would like to make an exception for this. I've been a commuter for 25 years. I've seen little or no change in all these years. I can see some of them sniffing. I have spent time among different governments with different compositions, with little or no change. So pointing the finger is not relevant here. Why not? Because the fundamental problem was never addressed. That is the hourglass structure, the too wide summit and the too broad union base. In the courageous, narrow middle, between hammer and anvil, we find the duped. Here we find the staff trapped in the web of political jousting, the staff who are rightly frustrated and understandably misunderstood and abused. That's where the customers are. Sometimes it is a traveler or a climate idealist, but mostly it is a commuter, a taxpayer who uses SNCB's services to study or to study. As long as the SNCB summit is too broad, too posted and too self-interested, as long as the too wide union base has too much power and is too self-interested, this unfortunate tradition will last for so long and commuter and employee will remain in the narrow middle. Therefore, thorough structural changes occur according to the Flemish interest. Is there a longer-term vision to fundamentally reform the construction of SNCB? Are there any other trade union actions in the air in the short and medium term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u45	Mr President, Minister, there is once again a halt today at SNCB. The trade unions feel that SNCB is not working properly. I can understand them well, because we actually agree with them. Less understandable is that the rail unions therefore avenge the passengers. Customers today do not receive the service they paid for when purchasing their subscription. They also see their taxpayers' money go up in smoke, to the millions of euros of economic damage caused annually by the unions. Thousands of workers who were unable to arrange homework today are forced to give a day's leave. I do not know what is so social and solidarity about this. Colleagues, a strike is the biggest anti-advertising campaign for our public transport. I note that the parties who are calling out loudest that the climate plans are not enough are joining today's public transport unions and ensuring that tens of thousands of people are obliged to take the car. Fortunately, in every company there are also people of good will. Today, too, we see a lot of workers carrying the minimum service. This is a system for which N-VA has been actively advocating for many years and which until two years ago was wronged by all French-speaking parties except MR, so to speak, the ultimate dismantling of the right to strike. We are pleased that this system is in place today. I would therefore like to express my thanks to all the employees of SNCB for their efforts. Mr Minister, according to the management of SNCB, the measures that are being discontinued are necessary to modernise the company. What interventions do you consider necessary to turn SNCB into a modern and customer-oriented company?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u46	Minister, this week, SNCB broke a new record of 82 trains cancelled a day in 2019. The interests of travellers are the same as those of railway operators: have trains on time, comfortable, and affordable rates. But for that, we need means. We need social dialogue and respect. Today, the rail is energized. On the one hand, the commuters are unhappy. Why? Because the trains are late, cancelled, because they have to travel standing, the windows are closed, and the fares are rising. On the other hand, the workers are under pressure. They have untenable working conditions. They don't know how to take their leave. Work flexibility is common. Today's strikes signal the failure of the social dialogue and the measures put in place by the Michel government. Three billion savings, 4,500 jobs lost, while the number of travellers has never been so high, and climate emergencies and mobility are the current challenges. Today we need a quality public rail service, Minister. So today we are waiting for a clear signal from you. What are you going to do to bring about social peace and thus make public service to citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u47	Minister, ten questions have been asked of you. You have four to five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u48	Colleagues, thanks to the staff who indicated that they wanted to work today, SNCB has drawn up an alternative transport plan in consultation with Infrabel. According to that transport plan, half the IC trains run, despite the strike. A third of the L trains and S trains also run. The guaranteed service therefore works. So commuters, students and tourists can enjoy the announced service. Before the guaranteed service law, one day of strike, regardless of the number of strikers, there were zero trains. Today, with the guaranteed service, there is rail service on all lines. As I told you, not all trains drive, but the service announced yesterday, 24 hours before the strike, is provided. Today, all these trains are rolling. The purpose of the Guaranteed Service Act was to restore a balance between the legitimate right to strike and the equally legitimate right to work. I hope that after this day of strike, consultation will resume as soon as possible and that agreement can be reached between the various parties. I am basically an advocate for dialogue, social dialogue and public service. It is not with strikes that we will resolve a social conflict. SNCB must persevere in the transformation that began a few years ago if it wishes to be able to tackle the liberalisation of passenger transport in 2023 with serenity, and even if it wants to continue to exist. Although this change must involve a necessary reflection on working methods, it is obviously not the only area that needs to evolve. The improvement of production tools such as rolling stock or workshops, for example, will also play an important role in this modernization. The next government will have to decide whether or not the public service mission will be granted to SNCB for a further ten years. We quoted the figure of three billion, and I'm not going to go back on it. However, in five years, the Belgian citizen will have paid the SNCB 13.7 billion plus a billion for additional investments. The normal trend in growth in the number of travellers – which was 1% per year – was 3.4% in 2017 – before the marches for climate –, 3.5% in 2018 and 4.1% in 2019. For the Brussels Region alone and its crown, with the addition of the 72 S trains and the increase in the offer at the end of 2017, the number of passengers increased by 44%. My position today is to defend direct attribution. Things have been prepared so that this can change as soon as the next government takes responsibility. But, in return, SNCB must continue to improve the quality of passenger service and the efficiency of its means of production so that it can play on equal terms in the face of competition in our country and with the growing appetite of the companies of the countries around us. This is a sine qua non to ensure its sustainability. We have taken important steps in this respect. Finally, I would like to answer a question that two of my colleagues have asked concerning Mr Lallemand. Mr Lagerman, CEO of Infrabel, continues his activities in Infrabel under the terms of the 2014 Convention, no more or less.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u49	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, Open Vld and MR, you are blaming the train crews who have left the job today and you are right about the minimum level of service. What have you been doing for the past five years? There is no vision on the track, there is no investment plan. You have not even succeeded, Minister, in concluding a management contract with SNCB. You have not been able to put on paper what you actually expect from SNCB. Now you're pointing your finger at the staff who've stopped today, but you've stopped for five years. You haven't looked back on SNCB for five years, on rail policy. The result is that people today have to pay more for a worse service. I understand the rail crew has had enough of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Probably a lot of commuters were very happy today that they knew if they were getting to work and back home, despite the strike, thanks to that guaranteed service. With the introduction of the guaranteed service, you have shown determination. The same determination is needed to enable the necessary reforms to be carried out in SNCB's Staff Regulations, so that it is adapted to the challenges of today and of the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u51	Minister, you are self-congratulating because the guaranteed service has been provided, but that is absolutely not the issue. It was a matter of agreeing on the structural problems that the staff are denouncing. You mentioned a few of them, but you didn't find a solution. Today's strike highlights a social issue – unworthy working conditions which staff denounce and which do not respond to SNCB's tasks – but also an issue in terms of mobility, as my colleagues have pointed out, as well as a climate issue – some members will come back to the failure of COP 25. If you want to offer alternatives to the car, you need to be able to invest heavily in a railway network that is efficient, accessible, comfortable and secure. It's not for commuters to do this, it's for your government and the state.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am confident that you will follow this situation closely in order to alleviate tensions and ensure the protection of commuters. My group is pleased that the guaranteed service has been set up for the population and, in particular, the commuters. I understand that some would have preferred the Belgian rail network to be paralyzed. That's not our case. With pragmatism, we can rejoice that, according to my information, between 30 and 50 per cent of trains run, respecting the commuters who leave for work as well as the right to strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u53	Minister, we have just lost five years. You've been the minister of minimum service. Railroaders, citizens and the planet deserve maximum service. I often hear that we must fight against the detrictness of our public services. Today, we must change our discourse and put an end to this defensive position. We must call for a reinvestment in our public services. This will be the mission of the next government to catch up with the delay of the last five years on the rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u54	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for reassuring us of Mr Lallemand's bonus. So I want to insurgent myself here against the fake news that is being propagated. No one would have understood that this bonus was granted to a man who, a few weeks ago, was talking in this chamber about public waste. According to him, SNCB is not intended to transport fifteen people from village to village. It would therefore have been incomprehensible that he would have granted himself this bonus. This would have been, at least, very indecent. On the other hand, Mr Minister, you have not answered my other questions, in particular the one concerning the recommendations of the Buizingen Commission, in particular on the cabins and the vigilance to be exercised by the personnel concerned for 12 hours in a row. In this respect, I would like to draw lessons from the past. This is one of the reasons for the strike that is being organised today. I therefore ask you to pay particular attention to this problem, because it is also a question of security conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u55	Mr Minister, first of all, for me, the problem with the Infrabel CEO has not been solved. It's not because you state that he gets what he needs, that he should get a premium of 8 %, while the employees don't even get a premium of 1 %. My question on the subject was clear. Secondly, the minimum level of service has not solved any problem, either for travellers or for workers. After all, people are entitled to a serious service and to trains that arrive on time. The minimum level of service therefore does not solve this problem. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has invested extra. It is a political choice to invest so that there are enough trains and trains on time. In England, the opposite is true. I have read in the news today that in England people have been on strike for a month, because the railways have been privatised, so that people have not been able to catch any train for a month and people are taking an air ticket instead of a train ticket, because the plane ticket is cheaper than a train ticket. Is that what we want? That's not what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u56	Mrs. Vindevoghel, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u57	We want a good public service and an investment plan in which 95% of trains are on time. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u58	The trains must be on time, but you were talking about your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. First of all, I would like to thank the cheminots who recorded the work today. Unlike Mrs Vindevoghel, I believe that the minimum service is a small part of the solution, otherwise I would not have gotten here either. What I have inferred from your answer is that there is still no sight of any subsequent strikes. That is a little disturbing, because then the negotiations will not go so well, I think. Finally, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that far-reaching reforms are not yet being discussed immediately. This is perhaps a symbolic comparison when I say that SNCB is Belgian and Belgian: it is not transparent, slow and loss-making, and that is worrying. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you all a happy year and above all a pleasant, traditional Christmas, with the emphasis on traditional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u60	Allow me to traditionally congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u61	Minister, SNCB is characterised by several major structural errors: outdated leave arrangements, too much hierarchy, too many staffing services, a ban on contractual work and a social consultation with rules that are unseen in the rest of our economy. That is not the solution, ladies and gentlemen, by popping more money into it, that simplistic story is not right. The solution demands above all the will to modernise, a will to be found on my left here with a microscope. It is necessary, however, because the law on employment at SNCB dates back to 1926. So, dark red comrades of the PTB and the PS, let go of those antique labor systems, let the old forms and thoughts die. The 21st century has passed before a fifth, but here you are preaching as if the year 1926 is about to begin. SNCB urgently needs to modernise. Our legislative proposals are ready and I am counting on the support of every colleague who is looking to the future with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. It seems inappropriate to me, in this case, to oppose commuters and railway workers. The former do not want to use trains operating at the expense of the working conditions of SNCB employees. Today, I talked to the strikers; the safety of travellers and the well-being of workers are the first things they told me about. Responsibility is now in the head of government. We are in day-to-day business, but we are ready to take on our responsibilities. And, indeed, the next government will have to put SNCB back on track to meet the challenge of the climate emergency, that of mobility, for the quality of life of workers and for commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u63	Madam Minister, last weekend in Madrid, the international climate summit ended with a disappointing result. You were there, together with our three other climate ministers, and I found that, frankly, perhaps the most painful picture: four Belgian climate ministers who are going to negotiate a climate plan for Belgium, which is not working. Yesterday there was white smoke: we have a National Energy and Climate Plan. You have negotiated this with the colleagues of the Regions, and that is now complete. You've already explained the federal hatch, and there are good things in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to pay attention to the speaker? Otherwise, you go outside, in the corridors, in the coffee room, wherever you want, but a little respect for the functioning of Parliament would be appropriate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u65	In the federal part of our National Energy and Climate Plan, you at least acknowledge the need for investment in the railways. The previous discussion has shown that they are very much needed. It says, for example, that Belgium should get rid of fossil subsidies. That's good business in itself. However, I also have some reservations. You sat around the table with among others the Flemish Region, which suddenly started to magic with numbers again. Flanders has taken a long time to reduce CO2 emissions by 32%, and suddenly it says that it is going to 35%. It does so with a coalition agreement that everyone who knows about it says that it does not make sense, is not ambitious and is not right. The numbers are what they are. It's not just about CO2 emissions. In the National Energy and Climate Plan, you also say that by 2030 we are going to reach 17% of renewable energy. That is not enough, because Europe is asking us for 25%. Therefore, Minister, I have no choice but to ask you whether you really think that Europe will assess our plan positively. If that is not the case, then we are at risk of fines and having to pay extra, and that cannot be the intention. Europe has even more ambitions than that, even though it will be very difficult to achieve these objectives. Europe has already announced that it will change its ambitions. How will we ever succeed in realising these ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u66	Madam Secretary, on Saturday De Tijd announced that in five years' time we will wake up and think "what a missed opportunity." Saturday was also the day on which extensions were played in Madrid. It was also the day when you, your employees and the administrations were still working very hard to get the Belgian climate plan through. Wednesday was the plan. We then got a plan that excels in Flemish bookkeeping logic but not in Belgian climate ambition. Colleagues, climate ambition is what citizens are asking us for in the streets, what scientists recommend us for and what companies are ready for today. I could talk here about Flanders' missed opportunity or the fact that Flanders is launching Belgium, but in this hemisphere it is about what we can do, about how we can work on a strong federal framework. The federal government should not only bring together the entities in our country, it should also bring together citizens and businesses and create a federal framework with smart investments for the future. Madam Secretary, I have only one question for you, but you are not the right person to ask this question. You say all the time that you can't do anything because the government is in current business, that you represent the federal government, that you have no territory. Mr President of the Chamber, if you will allow me, I would like to put my question to you, but also to all Members. Are we ready and willing to take the glove today? Madam Minister, let us work together on an ambitious federal climate policy with the powers and opportunities we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday in the Committee on Consultation, with your colleagues in charge of Climate and Energy in the Regions, you adopted the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) in time to present it to the European Commission before the end of the year. We have already had the opportunity to speak in committee about the federal part of the PNEC which has the ambition to strengthen rail transport – it is timely – by investing EUR 35 billion over the reference period. It also includes an energy neutrality target for 50% of the federal housing stock. In addition, we are talking about maintaining the target of 4 GW of power installed in offshore wind, which makes our country the world leader in this field. There is also a question of promoting transportation for electric vehicles, of greening the federal fleet. And I'm on it. Minister, we recall your willingness to respond to the remarks made by the Commission, in particular on the integration of the four plans so that they form a single plan detailing how our country intends to achieve its 2030 targets. The focus of this plan is, of course, the commitment of each Region and the federal government to achieve the European target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 35%, an aspiration that is made complex, as we know, by the different positioning of the regions. Minister, can you give us more information on the final plan adopted by the Concerted Committee? What is your view of intra-Belgian cooperation on climate policy in the final development of the NCP?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u68	Madam Secretary, we made a complete fool of ourselves last week. Belgium was head of Jut at the COP25. It even got a nomination as a fossil of the day. Now that the National Energy and Climate Plan is known, we certainly deserve that title. That is because your climate policy is neither ambitious nor social nor coherent. Yesterday, you knocked off the plan with the colleagues of the sub-governments. That plan states that we are going to reduce CO2 emissions by 35% by 2030, whereas, according to the scientific findings of the IPCC, we are going to have to reduce CO2 emissions by at least 55% by 2030. Even more, it is not certain that we will achieve that 35% reduction in emissions by 2030. So, compared to the original plan, we see that you count yourself wealthy. The same energy efficiency measures would suddenly produce five times more. Besides, the share of renewable energy has also fallen in the new plan. I suspect you'll come up with the same answer again. You will again point the finger at the responsibility of the sub-governments. It will be the colleagues from the Länder. You have said in the press that you are pleased that there is already a plan. But I wonder if that's your role as federal minister? Have you taken any leadership in the negotiations to get more ambition? However, a social and ambitious policy is possible. However, you are pretending that the biggest polluters in this country do not exist. They're not included in this plan. The five largest multinationals, responsible for one fifth of emissions, receive millions of grants. They get billions of tax credits, while you're always going to get the money in the wallet of the ordinary people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u69	What's your question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u70	When will you finally impose binding standards on these large multinationals?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u71	Mr President, I will leave it to you to answer the question that has been put to you. I will answer the other questions, and therefore the three colleagues who asked me about the National Energy-Climate Plan. First of all, this Plan was concluded with the three Regions (Brussels, Flemish and Walloon). In terms of renewables, our trajectory is indicative, as Europe is asking us to do. Europe is asking for more. For the moment, we have not yet reached this level, but we have ten years to cover this distance. As far as the North Sea is concerned, by 2030 the North Sea will be virtually saturated in terms of renewable energy production. This has nothing to do with my skills, or the fact that the government is in day-to-day business. We will not be able to do more, except by connecting our offshore wind farm with other offshore parks in other countries. This is the first thing: the regions must increase their production of renewable energy. In the Consultation Committee, we worked on biofuels. We carried out a trajectory until 2030, leading to 13.9% of biofuels to be integrated into fuels. These are first-, second-, third- and fourth-generation biofuels, provided they are certified and can be suitable for vehicles operating. We used differentiated counting because, depending on the nature of these fuels, they have different energy capacities and therefore different CO2 emissions. They can, because they are twice, three times, four times more energetic, be counted as such. This has enabled us to make the journey that leads us to almost 14% of biofuels by 2030. For the rest, Mr. De Maegd noted this, we have a series of measures at the federal level and we are working with the Regions. The spirit has been constructive with the Regions and must continue to be so. That is how we in our country can ensure that climate governance has concrete results. The next request from the European Commission will be higher, since the Green Deal has just been taken by the Commission. This obliges us to go even further, up to 50% and 55% reduction in greenhouse gases. We're going to go back to work and pursue it to increase ambitions. The European Commission will make its remarks in September, and a monitoring is planned for 2024. I think or hope I have answered your many questions. On the question of Parliament's work and parliamentary climate governance in Belgium, I give the floor to the President of this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u72	During the oral questions session, it is always the ministers who answer, unless you tell me that you resign.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u73	Mr. President, I'm a quitter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u74	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It's not just young people and worried citizens looking at you. Many companies warn us that the transition in our country is not fast enough and that investment is needed, and you should not underestimate that as a liberal minister. You're referring to the Regions. But the very large Flemish Region has still not understood that investing in energy transition and in climate can generate money and jobs. Every Flemish family that isolates their home today or lays solar panels shows more long-term vision than the Flemish government. However, our country has simply signed the Paris Climate Agreement and I cannot tell you anything else but to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have 10 years to start and complete the climate and energy transition. Parliament is already working on this. There are proposals by Mr Lachaert on the greening of the company car park; yesterday we voted and today we will also vote on more resources for a social energy policy so that people in poverty can make choices for green energy; there is the proposal by my colleague Vanden Burre on carbon balance. Today we can take the lead and work on smart investments in the future. Let us look forward, take up the glove and work on ambition. That is what the citizens are asking us, it is what the scientists are telling us, and it is what the companies are ready for. We, as policymakers, as legislators, must accept that glove and we must not stand by.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u76	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that the outcome of COP 25 in Madrid is more than mixed. We agree, but it's obviously not your fault. In this context, this PNEC, if it is not optimal, is a positive signal that we are sending to the citizens in the face of a certain evanescence that I hear here, giving you a preponderance in the role. I would remind you that cooperation and accession between the different regions and the federal government are important, and I would like to call for an interparliamentary, Mr President, so that Members can finally look into their garden. It is up to us, Members of all parliaments, to ensure that governments move towards the ambitious objectives set by the European Commission. We are talking about our quality of life and, above all, our children's quality of life. So let us assume, as parliamentarians, that we are all moving together in this direction!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u77	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. You say that I did not ask any clear questions, but I did ask them and I did not receive an answer. There is a total lack of ambition and that is because there is a certain spirit of climate denial in this Chamber. I am not talking about people denying global warming, but about a complete lack of knowledge of the severity of climate change. This will cost us a lot of money, because this will only make the climate bill heavier and move to the next generations. We have made a top five of the five largest polluters, responsible for 20% of CO2 emissions. Together they make a profit of EUR 10 billion. They also received subsidies. ExxonMobil also receives grants from the Climate Fund. When are you going to impose binding standards? Are you gonna call them to pay for that climate bill, too? I'm also thinking of a federal climate minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u78	Mr De Vuyst, you have made your point. You need to stop now. This is a matter of state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u79	This brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u80	Mr President, before discussing draft laws and legislative proposals, I would like to ask the Council of State's opinion on the draft law on the amicable recovery of debts, which is on the agenda of this plenary session. We ask for the opinion as we have reservations about the legal quality and the possible unforeseen effects of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u81	Colleagues, it's about Bill No. 267, the third item on the agenda. I have to check whether at least 50 Members support the Council of State's request for advice. Does anyone ask to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u82	Mr President, we support this question for the whole of the legislative proposal. This is a draft law which was already discussed in the previous legislature, but which could not be finalized at that time. In itself, the text has noble objectives, but the proposal may have some unintended effects, especially with regard to small enterprises and self-employed persons which are administratively less than large enterprises, which indeed sometimes engage in the debate on the debt industry. So we are concerned about some parts of the text. Since it is a legislative proposal, the Council of State's opinion on that text has never been sought. However, we believe that it is wise to ask for the opinion. That is why we support the request for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u83	Mr President, the objectives of this bill are certainly commendable, and we are prepared to vote for almost 90% of the text to combat abuses committed, in particular by collecting companies, and against too high a recall fee, in order to protect consumers. At the same time, the particularly long time limit, which extends up to 41 days, for the payment of invoices, seems to us excessive. This delay would have a potentially significant impact, especially for small independents and small businesses. It would also have an impact on a sector that has not been taken into account at all, that of health. I am thinking not only of hospitals but also of small ASBLs and nursing homes. For all these reasons, we have tabled several amendments. But in view of teleescoping with regional regulations, we propose not only to send the amendments, but also the whole text, to the Council of State, especially since it has not yet been submitted to it in any way, since it is a proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u84	Therefore, you support this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u85	Mr President, I note that here we have a bill to combat household over-indebtedness, which is a very serious problem in our country. It was enough for the FEB to send a letter, through you, to all the Members, with amendments already made, so that different groups in the assembly – the N-VA, the Open Vld, the cdH – would resume their demands. These include the failure to pass the law today in plenary session. I think it's pretty amazing. It was known that some parties were directly related to the employer. We remember the president of the N-VA saying "the Voka is my boss." We can see that today it is the FEB that makes the law. She tabled amendments. When the FEB demands, there are parliamentarians who apply. I find this rather deplorable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u86	We're not going to discuss the substance. It is a matter of consulting the Council of State. All you have to do is decide on that request. We can continue. Mrs Depraetere, you have asked for the floor. I shall also give the floor to Mr Vanden Burre. It is therefore only a question of the Council of State's opinion on the proposal and all the amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question for advice is remarkable, because the proposal was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We held the debate, hearings and negotiations in committee. We have also put forward a proposal, which has been unanimously adopted. At that time, no party was right to ask for a second reading. After all, it is a very good proposal. At that point, no one thought it was necessary. It is therefore strange that we are being asked today to seek an opinion from the Council of State. After all, why is this question so sudden? We have all read the e-mails, heard the messages on the radio and read the newspaper. We have all seen that a lobby is doing everything in its power to delay the proposal and rather stop it. That's the only reason that question comes up today. Let's be honest. An opinion of the Council of State shall be requested if there is a constitutional discussion, if there is a conflict of competence or if there is a question about a violated principle of equality. Colleagues, that question is not here today. Ladies and gentlemen, in what amendment or part of the text do you see such a conflict? Personally, I don't see it. The only reason you are asking for the opinion of the Council of State today is because you are not sitting here for what is the basis of the bill or for dealing with debt issues. You speak here purely in the name of the lobby and of the VBO.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u88	Mr Vanden Burre had asked for the floor. In the meantime, Mrs Pas and Mrs Reuter have also asked to speak. One speaker per political group may take the floor. I repeat that it is only about the question of an opinion or not of the Council of State. The House will then have to take a decision on this subject in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u89	Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to point out that many amendments have been received on this text, which was the subject of a unanimous vote in the parliamentary committee. A balance had been struck between consumer protection – which is fundamental in terms of debt collection – and that of other actors such as small structures, independents and traders. This balance was negotiated until an agreement involving all groups was reached. To review certain paragraphs technically does not pose a problem to us. We are prepared to start work again in the parliamentary committee. Most of the amendments are breaking the balance found unanimously in committee. We regret it. That is why we oppose the referral to the Council of State and the way in which we act here. We had this unanimous agreement. I do not know what has led all colleagues to change their minds. We can legitimately ask ourselves the question. At our level, we remain consistent and continue to support the text as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous vote on this proposal in committee points out that everyone shares the concern for consumer protection. However, we must be careful not to make mistakes here. There is a reason why matters are discussed first in committee and then discussed again in plenary. Rapid legislation with errors is of no benefit to anyone. We must have the honesty and generosity to admit it if there are any mistakes in the legislation, otherwise we will soon be standing here waving a repair law. It would not be the first time that haste and haste in this house leads to bad legislation and a repair law. So we are certainly going to support the request to send the full legislative proposal and all the amendments for advice to the Council of State. We do not want the pendulum to go in the other direction either. It must be a balanced proposal, it must not open the door to abuse. The small self-employed must also be known in this. That is why we are certainly going to support the request for the opinion of the Council of State. Our concern is that it will be a good legislation and not a mess.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u91	Mr President, I would like to point out that in the Committee on the Economy, the MR Group has tried to postpone the vote on this bill. Our goal was to delay. This is a serious subject that deserves to be dealt with on the basis of in-depth work, examining the problem from several angles: the angle of contracts, the angle of judicial law, the angle of consumer law, the angle of market law. It is important to take the pulse of the different sectors. Of course, we share the philosophy of the text, but, as has been said on several occasions, we need a balance equally acceptable to our SMEs, our companies. There was indeed a vote in committee because of the insistence of some. The authors supported by others pushed for a global amendment to be voted on. As far as we are concerned, we have voted for a sub-amendment, which has made it possible to move forward and to set a minimum. But we support the referral of this bill to the Council of State because it seems important to us to carry out serious work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u92	Mr President, I am quite dismayed to hear what has been said here. I am referring to the CDH's request for referral to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u93	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u94	But she's backed by the CDH, Mr. Dallemagne. We did not see any members of the CDH during the debates on amicable recovery of consumer debts. [[Brouhaha on cdH benches]] We did not see any members of the CDH during the discussions on this text. Today, Mrs Fonck arrives with amendments which are a result of the mail from the FEB which you have forwarded to us, Mr President. Since she was not familiar with the file, since she had not participated in the discussions, she resumed a whole series of debates, not knowing that, in particular, the payment deadline had been the subject of a compromise. In our original text, there were three days to issue the invoice, as proposed by the FEB. But the Open Vld and the MR asked us to allow seven days because some SMEs could not adapt, which we did. The original text also provided for a 30-day payment period. But we were told that the deadline was far too long. This was reduced to 20 days. I still remind you that thirty days is the normal time in everything that is done in B2B. But obviously, what is done in B2B is not the B2C's prerogative. I therefore find these political manoeuvres a little special, especially since I recall, Mr President, that this text was voted unanimously. Apparently, some members of the MR find the knife under their throats. In committee, however, two of them approved it. Today, however, because they received a letter from the FEB, they wish to refer the proposal to the Council of State. I believe that this attitude is totally deplorable. I also regret, Mr President, that you have not forwarded to the members of this House the very positive letter from Test Purchasing, consumer protection associations and the Anti-Poverty Network. Some people discovered the wheel by receiving the mail from the FEB, whose arguments have been the same for years. I hear some people tell us that we're going to slow down. Do you know, Mr President, when the Socialist Party tabled this proposal for the first time? In 2013! We re-tabled it in 2014. Now, some would like to save time. But what time, Mr. President? Just, I think some parties want to dance as the FEB whistles. This is not the case with the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u95	Mrs Fonck is asking for the floor for a personal fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u96	Mr. President, yes, if I may. All this is very nice, but at five we cannot cover seventeen committees at the same time. On the other hand, Mr Prévot, you know very well that we do not have the right to vote. So, in fact, we did not participate in your compromise in committee. Moreover, if we no longer had the right to debate and speak in plenary, I imagine that this would no longer exist. Let me add a few words. You're all scanning: "The FEB, the FEB!" What are you doing with UCM, SNI, Hospital Federations and UNIZO? All these actors argue that small self-employed and small businesses should not be strangled in an attempt to help people with financial difficulties. Otherwise we'll be able to rescue them. In this sense, part of the text is largely positive, and we support it today. We don't dance like the FEB whistle. Evidence of this is provided by the actors I cited. If you read the amendments correctly, you will find that this is not the same thing. We are talking about deadlines, but also about healthcare institutions, because their situation is special. If we do not act, tomorrow these jobs will also be worsened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u97	If we ask for referral to the Council of State, we do not discuss the substance. I let the discussion take place but not on the substance. The president must only determine whether there is a sufficient number for this referral. That was the subject of Mrs Van Bossuyt's request. I am only applying the Rules of Procedure. The substance of the case is only addressed if there is not a sufficient majority to send the bill to the Council of State. That's not so exceptional. Last week we followed that procedure. I simply have to ask whether 50 Members of the Chamber of Representatives support Mrs Van Bossuyt's request? Those who support the request for the opinion of the Council of State are entitled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u98	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: - 229: Kathleen Depoorter - 460: Robby De Caluwe, Goedele Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u99	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Karin Jiroflée, who refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the lack of availability of medicines and the shortage of medicines in Belgian pharmacies was one of the issues that I brought to Parliament from my pharmacy. When I took the oath with you, that was one of the points that I wanted to take absolutely and first, because it is very important, because it is for our patients and because it is for the proper functioning of public health. This problem has been dragging on for years and a lot of efforts have been made, but it has never really materialised. I am glad that we were able to hold a first hearing on this in July in the Committee on Health and that everyone has been involved in the fine bill before us today. Unfortunately, we don't have a magic wand in our hands. The unavailability of medicinal products is a very broad problem that will have to be addressed at many levels. There has been a step forward, a step forward for the patients, a step forward for the care providers in our country. The draft law is drafted in such a way that it is immediately enforceable and applicable. There is therefore no need to work on it for a very long time. Patients can serve this law as early as February. My fellow pharmacists spend an average of five to six hours a week dealing with the drug shortage. Recently I had a conversation with a colleague who said she'd promoted herself to full-time problem manager. By which she meant that she was searching in her pharmacy full-time for alternative drugs for her patients. That can't be the intention. Today there are 650 CNKs, i.e. 650 boxes available, with the same medicine in it if necessary, but with other milligrams or in another form, not available to patients. As a patient it is very frustrating to go to the pharmacy with a prescription and to hear again that the medicine is not there and that the pharmacist will first call the doctor, after which the patient must go back to the pharmacy. This is a huge waste of time for the patient. It also damages the trust between doctor, pharmacist and patient. A patient finds it strange that the pharmacist does not have the medicine again, but the pharmacist can of course do nothing about it. The same patient also finds it strange that his doctor prescribes a medicine that is not available on the market. That confidence of patients in doctors and pharmacists is still quite high at the moment, by the way, higher than in practitioners of other professions. Doctors and pharmacists deserve to have confidence in them and we need to work on this as policy makers. Finally, what struck me as a care provider was that the additional price of an alternative to an unavailable drug was on the account of the patient or pharmacist who then, out of honest shame, dropped it. That can't be the intention. Colleagues, the legislative proposal is based on four pillars: prevention, inventory, approach and action. First of all, how do we prevent it? We do this by ensuring a faster notification of inaccessibility. We will make sure that the doctor immediately sees in his prescription software that a medicine is unavailable. We are already dealing with this at the source of the problem. Secondly, it is important to make the inventory more rigorous and faster. We will identify the cause of the deficits, so that the government gets a very clear picture of what is missing, why is missing and where action is needed in the production process. Thirdly, we are also tackling deficits. If a particular medicinal product for the Belgian market is missing too often or for too long, we will ensure that an export ban can be imposed. This is quite different from the export ban law, which was voted on in April. The proposed measure is targeted and does not cover all medicines, but the medicines with which there may be a problem. We are also addressing the problem by imposing an obligation on wholesalers to supply medicines to the pharmacy or wholesaler within the three working days of the public service. There is an amendment to this effect which aims to impose delivery within one working day. I'd like to anticipate that. I told you at the beginning: we have ensured that the proposed legislation is enforceable. That is the key to the three working days. We consulted with the field and it was not always possible to go to a deadline of 1 working day in the event of shortages. That's why those three working days came. Colleagues, you all know that people who work in care really take their responsibility, both pharmaceutical companies and pharmacists and wholesalers. If a medicine is needed very urgently, then there will be a delivery to the pharmacy within 24 hours, if it is available. I therefore call for those 3 working days to be retained for workability so that we have an effective solution and do not create an additional problem. The patient should not suffer from the fact that a medicinal product is not available on the Belgian market. The patient must have a reliable partner to the government, a partner through whom he knows he will get his medicine for the agreed price. This bill makes sure it is. Neither the patient nor the health insurance will pay for this. The pharmaceutical companies that are at the basis of the unavailability will also have to pay for this. One last measure in this law was added by amendment and I am actually very grateful as a pharmacist for that. It is a great relief that the right of substitution is finally being poured into a legal framework today. We heard during the hearings that the pharmacists were trained to do so. They can do that, they know the chemical composition and they know perfectly well when they can replace a medicine with another medicine at the same price. What pharmacists have been doing for years is now finally being regulated by law. We shall therefore support the additional amendment tabled by my fellow Members on this point. The right of substitution is already in the proposal anyway. Now we have another amendment to extend the right of substitution so that it can be applied immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also read Mr Fonck's amendment. It requires that the doctor be informed in the event of substitution. That is obvious: doctors are informed by electronic prescription. If a medicine is prescribed electronically, then it will be perfectly possible for the doctor to know that another medicine has been given with the same effect. That will then end up in the global medical record with the doctor. Finally, I would like to thank you all, as I said, for following this path and for the hearings we have organised and for listening to the field and the professors present. I would also like to thank Mr De Caluwé for working with me to deepen the way to take care of patients and improve health care policies so that there can be even more for patients. I would like to thank all of us for taking matters into our hands and for taking a major step forward in this matter in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u101	Thank you for explaining the proposal before us, Mrs Depoorter. This is indeed a major problem. During the whole summer we have held hearings to put both the solutions and the causes side by side. In committee, we all learned that there is no magic wand to solve the problem. I am convinced that with this law we are taking a number of steps in the right direction. Together with the software interventions that are planned at the level of doctors, at the level of the FAGG and at the level of the pharmacists, we will really take great steps forward. I also hope that a future government with full powers will work towards a more transparent cooperation with the manufacturers of medicines so that everything can get off to a smooth start. I fully support the proposal so far. You also say that we must work together at all levels, but that is where we are going with this law. We are working on the import-export ban in the event of inaccessibility and then we are also going to look at imports and exports to other countries. We are convinced that this will require a TRIS notification to our European colleagues. We must abide by these rules. We want to move forward quickly, but with this we may base the law on legal quicksand. We think that is too high a risk. In the previous legislature, there was another situation that I was not present with, but that law was finally suspended. The comments on this point also referred to the TRIS notification which had not been made. We believe that this matter is far too important to take risks. The problem is urgent, but we must not rush to take too many risks and make mistakes. We believe that a law that ignores European rules is based on legal quicksand. That is why our group will be abstaining shortly. We think it is very good that we are moving forward, but we must respect all levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u102	Mr President, we think that the legislative proposal is a step in the right direction with a view to shortening or suspending the lists of medicines that are too short. We supported this in committee. We'll do the same here. We do want to evaluate this measure after some time so that we are sure that the problem will be solved and the measure will benefit the patient. We support this for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u103	Mr. President, Minister, 680, here is the number of drug packs listed as unavailable today on the AFMPS website. This affects all the specialties (collyres, antibiotics, medicines against heart failure, anticancer or psychiatric treatments). So, yes, sometimes there are alternatives to treatment, but this is obviously not the case for all. This is problematic for the patient who is unable to benefit from the treatment he needs or who sees the cost of his treatment simply explode because the alternatives available are obviously much more expensive. Let us reconsider the shortage of Clamoxyl for injection, i.e., amoxicillin used specifically for endocarditis or septicaemia in babies less than three months of age. Let's think about the shortage of Femara, an essential medicine to treat breast cancer. It was unavailable for several months and was not even notified on the AFMPS site. Let's think about Camcolit. This drug was not reimbursed until recently, but it did pacify the unavailability of a refundable treatment for bipolar disorders, by triplanting the price. We went from 9 euros to 27 euros. These situations are worrying. They place doctors and pharmacists in the face of difficult choices and sometimes misunderstood by patients who are concerned about the lack of access to prescribed medicines and therefore concerned about the development of their health. A new application called PharmaStatut recently collected and published information on the availability of medicines in Belgium. It should inform the patient, the doctor, the pharmacist of all possible alternatives. For the moment, however, it appears that doctors do not have the opportunity to see the alternatives available. We hope that in the long term, this application will be an effective tool to address each other's concerns. Let us come to the causes of these shortages. As my colleague rightly mentioned, but also the French daily newspaper Le Monde, a few months ago, the causes of these unavailabilitys are multifactorial. Deficiencies in production chains, difficulties in the supply of raw materials, too rigid standards, these are the elements put forward by the laboratories. But shortages are also generally the result of the fact that these structures and industries, in recent years, are subject to increasingly strong profitability requirements. The hearings we have conducted on this subject have not shown anything else: rationalisation of costs, abandonment of the manufacture of medicines which are considered unprofitable, preference given to those countries which bring the most to the detriment of those whose health system forces them to sting on their margin. My group does not intend to make the pharmaceutical industry a black beast. No way! We believe, however, that it is high time to rebalance the financial interests of this industry with the health interests of patients. As I said, if the causes of unavailability are multifactorial, the answers to be given are just as much. The proposal we are considering today is, it is true, trying to find some solutions to these shortages. Why did we choose forbearance? Simply because we did not get clear and concrete answers to the questions we asked during the debates in committee. Because we continue to doubt the effectiveness of measures on current and future shortages. Because we are struggling to believe that the consultation will indeed be carried out with all the stakeholders, when the text includes many delegations to the King and some royal decrees will have to be taken very quickly. On measures as such, questions remain. This provides for a more precise notification of the cause of unavailability, including where there is no delivery or in the case of incomplete delivery. The obligation is indeed there, but there is nothing about sanctions which, as we know, are currently lacking because rarely or never applied. The proposal also provides for a limitation or even a ban on exports in cases of unavailability. We obviously agree with the authors that the public service mission must take precedence. It is unacceptable that economic considerations prevent Belgian patients from obtaining the medicine they need or, to make it clear, when the medicine can be sold more expensively abroad. Provisions had already been passed under the previous legislature to suspend exports in the event of shortages, but the Constitutional Court finally annulled them. It will therefore be necessary for another mechanism to be put in place, but for the time being we do not have sufficient details on the arrangements envisaged and, above all, on the legal soundness of these arrangements. There is also a requirement for wholesale distributors to deliver, as part of their public service obligations, wholesale distributors and sales agents, within three working days. This may raise questions about access to treatment. As has been mentioned in committee, if we add a weekend, we are talking about a five-day wait. There is no need to clarify the consequences this could have on the health status of some patients. The text also provides for the establishment of a procedure to cover the additional costs of unavailability by pharmaceutical companies. As we have always said, it is completely unacceptable for us that these costs should be borne by patients or by our health care insurance. But there are still many questions. How will the compensation system work? How will responsibilities be determined? The creation of a fund was mentioned. How will it be funded? All these questions remain open and the uncertainties do not allow today to grant our white-sing to this text. Finally, I would like to return to one element which has given rise to a very interesting debate in committee: the right of substitution – the right to be granted to the pharmacist when he is unable to provide his patient, due to a shortage. When we tabled our amendments to legalize this substitution, we marked it. Yet others wanted to make this right conditional on a royal decree. This is tantamount to not recognizing this right, since we know that this order may never be taken, if some partners around the table oppose it. Well, there are. We have therefore re-tabled an amendment which clearly establishes the right of substitution and which will indeed allow the King the possibility of setting the additional conditions and arrangements, since they will obviously be necessary in terms of control or reimbursement. We're not going to cover our face. This substitution is already practiced. Today, it is in the patient's interest. It is therefore in the interests of everyone to be able to supervise it. In conclusion, for my group, I repeat that it is important to find quick and effective answers to this issue of drug shortages. We are not convinced that the proposal on the table will solve the problem and provide answers to the pharmacists, doctors and patients who face it. We are also convinced that a new comprehensive drug policy needs to be developed quickly, by rebalancing the interests and duties of each of the stakeholders and by ensuring that patients have high-quality and financially accessible long-term treatment. It is about the health of our health insurance and even more about the health of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to be able to say on behalf of my group, the MR, that this text is the result of work resulting from hearings held in the Committee on Health. We have heard from many experts and professionals since October. This text provides for a number of very concrete measures to combat mainly the consequences of the unavailability of medicines. This is known in our country, but not only. As we know, the whole of Europe is affected. This text deals in particular with the recording of the exact causes of unavailability or the responsibility for the additional costs associated with unavailability – an extremely important element for our group. In this regard, I would like to make it clear that we have tabled a bill to introduce a substitution fee for pharmacists in the event of unavailability. The pharmacist is in fact on the front line with the patient when he or she is told that the prescribed medication is not available in our country. The introduction of this right, the subject of our proposal, within the framework of an unavailability notified by the AFMPS, could be proposed by amendment during the work in committee. We welcome this, as it will enable rapid and positive progress to be made on this specific point for patients and pharmacists. Our group therefore obviously supports this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u105	Mr President, Madam Minister, yesterday I called the pharmacist at the Bordet Institute, which is well known for treating cancers in our country. She explained to me what she had been through a few weeks ago, because of the stock failure of paclitaxel, a substance used in chemotherapy. I quote: "For a while, we counted every bottle here. We had to ask doctors not to start new treatments and we had to import the medicine." The example of paclitaxel demonstrates the extent to which stock failures are a public health problem. Imagine having to start chemotherapy treatment later than expected or have to stop your treatment, as is currently the case for patients treated with Tomudex that is out of stock. This situation is really unacceptable! Of course, every factory can encounter a problem, at some point. A factory can catch fire. A sterility problem may arise on a production chain. A momentary stock failure may occur due to an accident. At present, however, the problem of stock failures is on the rise. Pharmacists spend about five hours a week finding solutions for patients. We are therefore entitled to wonder why the phenomenon of stock disruptions is increasing everywhere. Are more and more factories burning lately? Of course not! The phenomenon of stock failures is increasing, as behind these stock failures, mechanisms for maximizing profits are put in place by firms. Thus, for example, firms cause or do not resolve stock failures of cheap and unprofitable drugs. Doctors are then tempted to prescribe another treatment often more expensive and often present in the portfolio of shares of the same firm. Another cause of stock disruptions is the price difference between the different countries. Some will import or export medicines from one country to another in order to gain some or many benefits. For their part, the companies are trying to counter these exports by introducing, for example, quotas, which also leads to serious problems of stock failures, as was the case last summer with Femara, prescribed in the treatment of breast cancer, which was long unavailable. To demonstrate this, I will return to the example of paclitaxel for chemotherapy. While the producer Pfizer claimed a stock shortage due to a production problem at his site in Zagreb, our pharmacists had no problem ordering the medicine in the Netherlands and Germany, but with bills up to three times as expensive as the price offered in Belgium. I even brought a bill for those interested in it. Another stock shortage is still ongoing and calls for further action. It's the Clamoxyl, which has been running since March. It was on the occasion of this stock shortage that health care professionals became angry. In a carte blanche in Le Soir in July, they denounced the imperatives of profitability which are in contradiction with public health. Indeed, serious questions can be asked about the stock failure of Clamoxyl. It is an antibiotic on the World Health Organization's list of essential drugs. It is used for sepsis for infants under three months of age, or for some endocarditis and meningitis. There is no need to draw a picture: here too, we have a serious problem. Today, this medicine is rationed. But how is it possible that the antibiotic Amoxiclav, produced by the same GSK firm, which contains the same active substance as Clamoxyl, i.e. amoxicillin, is actually available in Belgium? How is it possible that GSK cannot increase its production capacity while the company is in the top 10 of Big Pharma's most profitable firms? The case of Clamoxyl has made it possible for us, together with the PTB, to propose, in July, to hold hearings in the Committee on Health, on medicinal products. Madam de la N-VA, at that time you voted against the holding of these hearings. During these hearings, we asked the following question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u106	Mrs Depoorter, would you like to take the floor for a personal statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u107	Mr President, I just want to correct something. We did not vote against it. We were absolutely in favour of hearings. You misunderstood that, Mrs Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u108	I think you voted against it. The MR voted in favour. We will look it up in the report. With regard to Clamoxyl's stock failure, we have asked ourselves a lot of questions about the policy to be pursued in such cases. How can companies that do not deliver their drugs be held accountable? How are they punished? How can they verify the reasons for this? As such, the hearings and subsequent debates proved to be interesting. In fact, we have learned that while the law provides for fines in the event of stock failure, they are never enforced. How do you want companies to settle or solve the problem if no sanctions are taken? When I'm speeding or burning a red light, I get a fine – and that's normal. With regard to the question of the authenticity of the reasons given by the company, we have had the right to a reply which is at least worrying. When I asked the minister if GSK's reasons for Clamoxyl's stock failure had been verified, she offered to visit the company's facilities myself. This answer continues to be perplexed. And I don't know if any of the officials performed the necessary checks. We will abstain in the vote on the legislative proposal before us today. We believe that it does not address the causes that I have just described. Nor do we agree that, while there was nothing in the original text, firms will have three days to supply a medicine. That's way too long for some drugs. Nor will we be able to sanction firms if that provision becomes applicable. We do not agree that the original text, which provided for an increase in fines, was ultimately greatly weakened. However, we welcome the fact that, in the event of a shortage, pharmacists have the right to substitution and that the costs associated with the possible import of medicines in the event of a shortage are no longer passed on to patients. We believe that the existing law should be applied effectively with an effective sanctioning policy and that there should be a check on the reasons for unavailability given by the companies. We must ensure that the patient takes precedence over the profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u109	Mr Depoorter, ladies and gentlemen from the Committee on Health, ladies and gentlemen in this Half-Round, I would like to thank you very much for the much work that has been done in committee. As has just been mentioned, the Committee on Health has already worked very hard on tackling drug shortages, among other things. We all know stories of people who could not get their vital medicine in time. Often, miracle solutions were put forward very quickly, but we do not believe in miracle solutions. The hearings have taught us that the situation is often a little more complicated than a few slogans. A shortage of medicines can have several causes. We have just heard a number of them. One cause, for example, could be that a manufacturer withdraws his medicinal product from the market, which means that the only alternative available can no longer follow production. There may also be a problem with the quality of production. And there are still many reasons that could explain a deficit. Do we have the miracle solution with this proposal? No. We will not say that either. Mrs Depoorter also said just now: we do not have a magic wand. But progress has been made by FarmaStatus since two weeks. FarmaStatus, ladies and gentlemen, is a system in which pharmacists, patients and prescribers can see when a medicine is not available. We believe that this is an important step, because this way the doctor can see immediately when prescribing a medicine that a particular medicine is not available and can propose an alternative. That's also important for therapy. As I said earlier, this proposal provides a partial solution to the problem of drug shortages. For us, there are four important elements in this proposal. Let me explain them briefly. Firstly, if a deficiency is reported, the medicinal product must no longer be exported. We believe that this is important. Secondly, wholesalers must deliver to distributors within three working days, in so far as the supply falls within the scope of a public service obligation. This has been discussed with the sector. This is also a feasible deadline. We can say that three days is long and that it should be possible in one day, but logistics requires a lot of those suppliers. We do not believe that one day is feasible, so we do not want to impose it. If traders do not deliver within three days, this will automatically be considered a temporary cessation. Thirdly, pharmacists can offer an alternative, the substitution right in the event of a shortage of a medicinal product. Fourthly, when a patient has to resort to a more expensive alternative, for example through import of the medicinal product, the additional costs will not be borne by the patient and not by health insurance, but by the manufacturer or by those who caused the shortage. I would like to comment on the right of substitution. It has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues: it is indeed not a general substitution right. We have chosen to limit it to shortages of medicines. In the case of a general substitution right, as we learned from the hearings, the problem of deficits could increase. The problem could increase because larger pharmaceutical companies could give large discounts to mainly pharmaceutical chains. In this way, smaller pharmaceutical companies, which are just as often the generic manufacturers, would have difficulty getting it and small pharmacies would be pushed out of the market. In addition, we believe that the most important thing would not be for the benefit of the patient or of the health insurance. We opt for solutions that benefit the patient in the first place. It has now been suggested that in the event of a deficit there should be high fines. We have also included this idea in the final proposal. The hearings showed that the measure would also have an adverse effect. For example, in the Czech Republic, a country similar to Belgium in terms of population, fines were introduced. Many products disappeared from the market afterwards. In particular, it would once again be the manufacturers of cheaper and often generic medicines who no longer want to take the risk of high fines and disappear from the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a shortage of medicines means that patients cannot get their medicines, not in the pharmacy or in the hospital, where the problems are often even greater. But whether there are 500 or 600 medicines too few, each shortage is too much. We must try to remedy this. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important social problem which affects many citizens. I suppose you've all met people who couldn't get their pills or their sister, aunt, grandmother, grandfather, neighbor. That's a shock from society. It is good that we were able to take the problem to heart, debate it in committee and attend hearings following the hearings during the previous legislature. The sp.a Group has been constructive, which is always our attitude. We have worked constructively to find solutions. Thanks to the amendments adopted to the initial proposal, there were a lot of proposals on the table, a sufficiently balanced proposal which is in line with the previous sp.a pills plan. I would stress that the proposal is sufficiently balanced, and these are important words. It's enough but not ideal. The other colleagues also referred to it, it is not the ideal solution, but it is a sufficient solution in the circumstances. The proposal is well-balanced, but there is still some work to be done in the pharmaceutical industry. We must look for a pax pharmaceuticals, a new pharmaceutical pact, which is much wider than a solution to shortages, which is a particle. Madam Minister, we need to respond to the pharmaceutical industry, probably in different areas and, as far as we are concerned, in a different way, depending on the pharmaceutical actor, I am trying to put it diplomatically not to hit anyone in the head. That's definitely gonna be a hot item. I am ready to discuss this. I would also like to address the Ecolo-Groen colleagues. The present proposal is sufficiently balanced and, in our view, sufficiently respectful of European rules. We are indeed taking a risk, but let us take that responsible risk, because we can take steps in the right direction, and that is at the heart of the matter. Steps will probably have to be taken, but we can take this step and we must not miss that opportunity. The next steps are still to be discussed in connection with a draft pharmaceutical pact. On a number of points, we can really take a step forward. I will quote some concrete and feasible measures that can be put into practice. The first is a faster and better registration of any problem or cause of a shortage of medicines with a clearer reporting obligation than the existing one, so that the decision tree of the FAGG, well-known jargon for the members of the Health Committee, works better. This can lead to better and faster results. This includes a link between the FAGG database and the general practitioners' software, which is now almost fully operational. That link, although not yet 100% in order, is a good evolution. FarmaStatus is therefore an effective step forward, even if there is still work to be done, so that a prescriber can immediately see which medicines are available where they are available. The patient thus does not needlessly go to a pharmacy to establish that a medicine is not available, as the prescriber can communicate the availability of medicinal products to the patient once the linking of the software is sufficient. Let us work on this link on the ground. Secondly, the introduction of a temporary or definitive ban in the event of a shortage of medicinal products is an essential measure for us. For some reason, mostly for profit, medicines are intended for the Belgian market, in the event of a shortage exported abroad. We want to make this impossible by imposing an export ban. Thirdly, we must grant pharmacists a limited substitution right for medicinal products, if there is a shortage. Medicines are classified in the category switch of no switch, with which I use jargon again. Switch medicines are, simply put, similar medicines which are interchangeable without danger to public health and with respect to the guidelines of the FAGG. It's about a limited refund. Do we still have to discuss this refund right? Yes, because we have to take into account the legitimate concern expressed by Mr De Caluwé that the right of substitution could be misused to organise stock sales. We also call for a balance in this regard. Let us not disturb certain balances, which I also refer to some of the amendments which would upset that balance and be quite impossible to implement on the ground. We must not deceive ourselves or the people on the ground; we must look for viable solutions. For the sp.a group, the regime under which the patient who has to buy and take the medicine does not have to pay any additional costs if a medicinal product that should be available is not available for some reason is of fundamental importance. It is not possible for the patient to have to pay the additional costs if, for example, the pharmacist has to buy a medicine abroad. The patient must always be protected. The patient and the health insurance should not be the financial victim of a deficit that should not be there. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us represents a step forward, a step in the right direction, but the work is not yet finished. Madam Secretary, most of all you need to get to work now. Implementing decisions are still needed, and they need to be taken quickly. I hope you'll finish those KBs soon. The FAGG working group has been working on this for a long time. They're ready. You've known for a long time that they need to get there. Allow the KBs, which are ready, to come in very quickly, so that the scheme can enter into force in an appropriate way and by 31 January 2020 at the latest. Those KBs have to be there by then. Madam Minister, I hope that you will also soon issue the KB that does not come from the FAGG working group, so that additional costs are not charged to the patient. For us, it is indeed essential that the spirit of our proposal for a regulation, when it comes to the cost to the patient, which I hope will be approved, be monitored in it. That is in the interests of everyone's health, ours and that of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u111	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall quickly allow myself to go back to a few things that I think are important. The unavailability of drugs is a public health problem that is anything but negligible. First and foremost, of course, for the patient. Beyond the inconveniences of the aisles and arrivals to the pharmacist, this raises much more existential issues of adherence and rupture of the adherence of the treatment. It is also a problem for pharmacists, for doctors, but also for social security, because this unavailability often leads to potential extra costs. Let's not be fooled. There is no magic wand that would allow us, with one or more measures, to miraculously fix everything. Rather, it is through a cluster of measures throughout the drug chain that we can move the matter forward and, above all, act more effectively against the unavailability of medicines. Since production, at the level of pharmaceutical companies, by way of distribution, paying attention to favouring the Belgian market over exports, and not to allow the trap of exporting medicines to markets where medicines would bring a greater benefit to pharmaceutical companies, which would then directly penalize our patients. Production, distribution and notification are much faster, which is essential. And, even if we have not talked about it, I personally plead that we should be able to examine the importance of setting up buffer stocks, for a number of medicines – not for all, it would not be useful – identified by Public Health. It is a matter, as you will have understood, of empowering each and every actor in the drug circuit. This proposal provides for a large number of delegations to the King. I am not going to take them back here, but, Madam Minister, on this subject, we want to move two important points forward in these royal orders. On the one hand, there is no additional cost to the patient in the event of the unavailability of a drug, and especially when the situation requires a pharmacist to order the drug abroad. On the other hand, there should be real consultation, as I have argued in committee, with the various stakeholders in the field of health. I say "concertation" and not just "information" because we need practical solutions as well as legally sound solutions in the decrees – we will remember that a piece of legislation that you voted under the previous legislature was rejected by the Constitutional Court. The AFMPS has exchanged with a few stakeholders over the past 15 days and has announced dates. I would like to reiterate to you that it is a genuine consultation and not just an information of the unilateral decisions that have been taken. Finally, as regards the possibility of substitution of pharmacists in this text, it is determined within a strict framework. Indeed, it can only occur when there is clearly identified and notified unavailability. It is strict because it is never just the transposition of what is actually done in practice today, in case of unavailability. It must be strict and have as its objective the continuity of treatment for the patient. Mrs Depoorter, if I have indeed reintroduced an amendment on the importance of informing the prescribing doctor, it is because the situation is not as simple as you describe it. While there is an electronic requirement, it does not cover 100 per cent of the requirements. The quality and continuity of care as well as the safety of treatment implies that the prescribing physician is informed when the patient returns to see it. The amendment I tabled here is a little different from the one I tabled in committee. It is no different on the objective, but on the way. Indeed, it seems to me that it is also the role of the public authorities to ensure that this information passes from pharmacists to prescribers with the least administrative burden, and if possible no administrative action taken by the pharmacist. This is crucial if we are to keep the patient at the heart of care, and ensure continuity between the various health partners and actors. Ultimately, the priority is the quality of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u112	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, the bill before this House today is an interesting response to a complex issue that is of interest to the whole chain, from production to distribution: the shortage of drugs. This has been a major challenge for us in recent months, and we have had to respond to it, in particular through the organisation of the hearings we have had in the Committee on Public Health. Indeed, the unavailability of medicines, due to its seriousness and recurrence, really endangers the health of our fellow citizens. A shortage of medicines means longer recovery, worsening of the symptoms of a disease, hospitalization that could have been avoided or even died in the short term. To remedy this, and to have access to their medication, patients try everything for everything. Physicians and pharmacists, for their part, try to keep track of a difficult treatment by importing or prescribing another medication, sometimes with another dosage, which increases the risk of misadministration. Today, no fewer than 641 packs of medicines are unavailable. They were 573 at the beginning of October 2019, and 497 in July 2019. These figures refer to the types of packaging concerned. In committee, the experts, as well as the patient representatives, have all rightly stressed how much we are facing today with a real public health problem. If there are alternatives to medicines that are in short supply, they may be more expensive, and may disrupt a patient's treatment. We are talking about treatments for cancer, for disorders such as bipolarity, for migraines, for heart failure, for sexually transmitted diseases such as syphilis. We're also talking about palliative care. One in four patients is believed to be potentially affected by the situation. For my group, this bill is undoubtedly a first step in the right direction in that it directs pharmaceutical companies to deliver their drugs very quickly to wholesalers, independent pharmacists or hospitals. It is also a step in the right direction because it enshrines the right of substitution in the law. However, this right is conditional on the adoption of a royal decree. I call on the Minister to do everything possible to ensure that this royal decree can be adopted as soon as possible. For, in fact, pharmaceutical companies have a social responsibility that should force them to make the priority of what a drug has been produced – saving lives – take over the search for profits. This social responsibility applies in particular where these firms have a monopoly in the treatment of a disease. The bill therefore offers a diligent response to the annulment of the law of 7 April 2019 amending the law of 25 March 1964 on medicines. That's what got him to be validated by the AFMPS. However, the commission work could have been further exploited to respond to the disarray of pharmacists and patients. Indeed, we believe that while the shortage of medicines requires our vigilance, the material and financial accessibility of patients to their medicines requires it just as much. At the end of October, associations such as Test Achats, Médecins du Monde and Kom op tegen Kanker issued recommendations on the development and accessibility of medicines. It is therefore up to us to also propose a legal and political response that is more comprehensive than the one proposed by the bill that we are called upon to vote on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u113	The breakdown of available drugs by category, generic or not, exported or not, has never been communicated. The proposal remains incomplete. Professor Dogné has raised the fact that, in order to lower costs, the pharmaceutical sector produces the vast majority of the raw materials for medicinal products outside the European Union. It would therefore be appropriate to require companies to keep 30 % stamp stocks. This idea was not included in the proposal. For all these reasons, my group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the shortage of medicines is a public health problem which is worsening year after year. It is a real ordeal for chronic patients and the PDB estimated that the lives of 1,200 patients had been put at risk as a result of shortages. Pharmaceutical industries do not produce products like others and have a particular responsibility in the management of their supply chain. We all agree that this problem is complex and that if there were solutions ready on the shelf, we would not be there. This bill tabled by Mrs Depoorter is a first response to very important parliamentary work. The proposal made today is a good answer. The importance of reporting and the reasons for the shortage, the possibility of suspending exports, the possibility of substitution of the pharmacist and the financial accountability of the pharmaceutical sector are in the right direction. As my colleague Barbara Creemers correctly explained, in the grounds of the appeal to the Constitutional Court against Ms De Block's law in April 2019, the lack of notification to the European Commission had already been cited. We therefore continue to think – and Mr Bertels does not mind – that in this very complex matter, all legal guarantees must be made available. But I note that legal certainty is a question of varying geometry in this House. Even if there is an urgent need, the law must first be legally sound in order for enforcement measures to be taken quickly to begin to address the problem. Today, we will abstain, but we continue to work on complementary proposals, including mandatory licensing and strategic stocks. It will also be crucial to assess the implementation of the measures that will be taken to ensure that they have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u115	With regard to the part of the notification to the European Commission, I find it a pity that you did not ask – but it is not too late! – a legal opinion to the services of the House or to the AFMPS, which could have answered us with greater certainty. We support the text, but if we could have all the elements to reassure and lock this issue, that would avoid any difficulty. It's just a little suggestion I'm allowing myself to make here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u116	Mrs Fonck, thank you for your suggestion, but the people of the administration, including the FAGG, have already replied. They replied during the hearings and the discussion of the proposal that it was a reasonable risk. We have already received that answer, so we are not going to ask it twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u117	Indeed, the question was asked of the AFMPS, which acknowledged the existence of a risk. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u118	We'll see about it later. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. I am glad that I already have a sister in this House. I welcome the statements, and I refer to what Mr Bertels said, which were sufficiently balanced. This shows that we are all convinced that this is a problem that needed to be addressed and in which we had to take a step forward. I told you in my introduction. It's not a magic wand. It's just a step. Those who have abstained have indicated that it is not a total solution, but we do not claim that it is. It's a start. I believe that from now on we can continue to work on this issue and work on a more effective public health. Mrs Fonck, I think it is very good that your amendment has been amended, but what I appreciated most in your speech is that you said that the patient is very successful when first-line care communicates with each other. That is exactly what we all want, communication for the benefit of the patient and legislation for the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u120	Mrs. Depoorter, I just wanted to come back to the little incident we just had. On 16 July, I intervened in the Committee on Health in response to Clamoxyl's stock breach. I've asked for a hearing. We had asked for this two days before. That was on the agenda the next day. You voted against the N-VA at the time. I've been watching the video again. You voted against it. I didn't just say anything here. That's the truth. I'm glad you came around afterwards and found it interesting to hold the hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u121	Then you refreshed my memory. I can tell you that I submitted this bill on 21 June. So I think I was really working on this problem and I was really happy that we were getting started. The fact that we voted against will then have had another reason. We've all been working on this. I do not think I can be blamed for this being a problem that I wanted to deal with later, because 21 June is far before 17 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u122	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u123	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (229/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (229/6) The title has been amended by the committee in order to propose legislation amending various laws, with regard to the shortage of medicines". The title was amended by the Committee in the proposal for a directive amending various laws relating to the shortage of medicinal products." The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u124	• 19 - Eliane Tillieux (229/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u125	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u126	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 4, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u127	Article adopted by article: 1 to 3, 5, 6 with an improvement in text, and 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted, and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u129	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Annick Ponthier, Barbara Pas, Steven Creyelman, Ellen Samyn, Dries Van Langenhove, Pieter De Spiegeleer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u131	Mr President, I am the rapporteur for a proposal from the Flemish Interest Group to report better and at regular intervals on the use and problems of language relations in the Belgian army. The proposal itself generated a whole debate in committee. There has also been a vote which, for those who know the customs in the Chamber, was somewhat surprising. The vote led to the adoption of the bill. Before that, an amendment was adopted from my hand, which states that reporting should not take place in the two chambers but in the Chamber of Representatives. Fortunately, the majority of the committee showed the wisdom to adopt the amendment. That is very briefly the content of the report. For the rest, I would like to refer to the written report for further explanations or comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u132	I give the floor to Mrs Ponthier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u133	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the past, the equality of language rights and opportunities for the Flemings in the Belgian army has been very poor, and I would like to say a few words about this, and in particular the law of 30 July 1938 on the use of languages in the army. That law was based on a number of historical facts, not only in the First World War, in which Flemish soldiers were often under the command of Dutch officers and under the motto "Et pour les Flamands la même chose" they had to follow orders that they did not understand and which led to them being more than once killed. The facts are what they are. History is what she is. I will not go into this in detail. However, this in our history caused a need for a higher consciousness in this matter. One of the consequences was therefore the law already mentioned. In order to ensure the effective implementation of the legal rules, Article 32 of that law provides that the Minister of Defence shall submit an annual report on the application of the law in the Chamber of Representatives. That obligation is also effectively implemented. After all, it is laid down in the legislation. In practice, however, it has given rise to a number of problems in the past. The report has often been submitted late, usually in the course of the year following the year to which the report relates and often much later. Thus, the annual reports of the years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 at the request of the Vlaams Belangroep and under the ministry of Minister De Crem did not start until 18 July 2012, i.e. five years later than that should have been done. This indicates that this reporting is rather a formality which ignores its specific objective. As a result, the problem of linguistic balance does not play a role in the preparation of the budget of the Land Defence policy, simply because the government itself does not yet have the document. It will then be particularly difficult for Members of Parliament to prepare for the discussion of the defence budget because they do not have all the documents necessary for this purpose. This, of course, means that in practice the usefulness of the report is greatly reduced and that the report is de facto worthless. The reports show, among other things, that this is not only an administrative problem, but also has a factual impact on the protection of the implementation of the law. For a number of categories of military personnel, the imbalance between Dutch speakers and French speakers remains. We were able to hear this yesterday in committee from the new Minister of Defence, Mr Goffin, who replied to a question from our group leader, Mrs Pas, that the imbalance was far from being eliminated. However, the reports repeatedly state that the armed forces are aiming for a language ratio reflecting that of the Belgian population, namely 60% of Dutch speakers and 40% of French speakers. We believe that a report which would be delivered within an acceptable time frame could be useful in eliminating these imbalances and in filling the shortage of Flemish jobs, in order to achieve the objectives of the armed forces themselves. That is not only useful, but even desirable as far as we are concerned. We therefore want to ensure that existing legislation is implemented in good time. I believe that there is no world-shattering demand and that the Minister would therefore add the report as an annex to the annual policy paper, as it should be. Without that, we do not believe that the debate can be conducted properly. It is therefore simply a technical supplement to the existing legislation. Moreover, and I explained this in committee, this directive was also included in the recommendations of the Working Group on Linguistic Balance in the Army, which was established in the legislature of 2010-2014. Mr President, I am sure you will remember that. I was also an active part of this at the time, together with a number of other colleagues here. This group was specifically asked by MR, through Mr Denis Ducarme. He considered it necessary to devote a number of hearings, reports and opinions to these issues. Flemish Interest supported that request. A substantial document was also prepared containing a number of recommendations. The last of the five recommendations concerns Article 32 of the Law of 30 July 1938 on the use of languages in the army. This article states that the Minister of Defence must provide the Chamber of Representatives with an annual report on the application of the law. The Working Group stresses the importance of that report and therefore wishes this article to be fully and effectively applied from this year on. In this way, the report will in future allow the Chamber to monitor the evolution of the division of language in the army in a transparent and constructive manner. That recommendation was put into a legal text. The reporter has already mentioned that the parties who normally attach great importance to the content of the Belgian Constitution in the Article-by-Article vote in committee were selective. They voted against Article 1, which refers to the application of the Constitution to which this bill relates. The Flemish Interest found this to be a very strange course of action. Is it not the content that counts, but the author? I hope that I am wrong about that and that, in the vote later today, no one will be blinded and common sense should be allowed to return.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u134	The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance voted against in committee and will do so again. I intervene because I wanted to ask Mr Bogaert of CD&V what his voting behaviour will be. Mr Bogaert voted in favour of the Flemish Interest Bill in committee. I would ask him to reconsider his voting behaviour in complete serenity. Why? I believe that voting for a bill of the Flemish Interest will strengthen the party and normalise it. That's not a normal game. This party regards asylum seekers as criminals and pretends to protect society from asylum seekers. It is a party of which prominent members are members of aggressive racist militias in our country. That is why I would ask Mr Bogaert to consider whether he really wants to strengthen that party by supporting the legislative proposals of that party. I don't think this is part of the CD&V tradition, I think the standards and values of CD&V are different.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u135	It is not about a personal fact, Mrs Pas, you will defend yourself. However, I would like to take the floor. In the Committee on Defence, of which I have been a member for years, we have a culture that means that we are trying to work together in a positive way. You know that very well, Mr De Vriendt. It is about the content of this bill and you did not comment on it. The Flemish Interest proposes legislation which should ensure that reporting is timely so that Members can do their job properly when we discuss the policy paper in the Committee on Defence. If we look at the substantive merits of that proposal, our group believes that we can support it. We have a certain history of language relations in the Belgian army and there has always been a lot to do. We have in the past been blamed by Mr Ducarme of the MR for the Flemishisation of the Belgian army . That's what a committee was about that you were a member of. I wasn't in there because I was a member of the government back then. So these are sensitive issues. If, after the whole debate on the flagship of the Belgian army, we now have a proposal to have the objective report which must always be legally presented on time, then someone like you, who has been trying to fill in the parliamentary metier for many years, says that it comes from that group and that it is racist militia talk. I don't think that's right. In the Committee on Defence, we are trying to work properly, and you know as well as I do that this kind of proposal would not stand a chance. It is a proposal which is correct in substance and which seeks to promote parliamentary control. You always advocate respect for Parliament. This proposal calls for an instrument to enable us to do our job properly. Such a proposal should therefore be supported by the N-VA Group, whoever submitted it. I regret that I did not submit it myself, because it is a good proposal that can improve parliamentary work. I am sure you will agree with the content, regardless of the polemics about who submitted it. So in this and also on behalf of my group, I can tell you that we will assess legislative proposals on their merits. We don't go along with a story that's bad anyway, tied to who it's from. If a bill comes from the PVDA, the PTB, Défi or the Flemish Interest, if the content is good, then we will assess it on their substantive merits. We do not participate in the thought police and the cordon sanitary with our party, the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u136	I find it touching that Mr Francken is being addressed by a question to Mr Bogaert and by a question to which my party is being endorsed. I should like to thank him for his rightful statement. I also find it touching, Mr De Vriendt, that you are asking questions to a colleague who is not even here. After all, you are fishing for Mr Bogaert. It is a fact that you do not have any argument about the substance of this proposal. You are merely concerned with the author. You say that proposals from my party would support, make my party stronger. I think you've made a terrible mistake. I think that people like you, who rule out good proposals in advance for the sake of the petitioner, insult people and throw criminals together; you call militias, but I know they have been banned in this country for years. It is precisely this arrogant attitude, which, according to the latest poll, has made 27 percent of the electorate and since the last elections more than 800,000 people worse, which only makes us stronger. It is this arrogant attitude not to listen to Flemings who support our proposals, which only makes us stronger. I would like to quote Jean-Jacques Rousseau: insults are the arguments of those who are wrong. That is what Rousseau was right about: if there is nothing to say about the substance of our proposal, it is only the author who is being dealt with. Whatever you say. You are responsible for your voting behaviour. Let Mr Bogaert and the other parties answer for their vote. If they think this is a good proposal, it is intended to be supported. That is what democracy is for. We consider everything to be substantive. We have already rejected or supported proposals from almost every group in this House, because we are judging on content and not on the author. It is called democracy, but it seems that some parties who call themselves democratic and call us non-democratic have more difficulty with democracy than we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u137	Mrs Pas, I am sorry that you find it touching that I am speaking on behalf of Mr Bogaert. I am speaking on behalf of my group. I spoke as rapporteur and then I spoke as a member of the largest group. That has nothing to do with Hendrik Bogaert. He'll have to defend his own point of view. I would like to say one more thing: I can only hope that, in the coming years, we in the Committee on Defence, and also in the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, will continue to work together in the same constructive and positive way, as we have done for many years, across party boundaries. So far we have always done so in the interests of our boys and girls, both in Belgium and abroad, and there are many of them, so that we can treat good parliamentary work, such as Mrs Ponthier's work, in a correct and respectful manner, just as you did yesterday on the Pandurs. We must give everyone time to discuss matters properly and to carry out thorough work in terms of substance. I better hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has also voted against this bill in committee because, for us, the arguments explained by the authors and those who support it do not reflect at all... [[Brouhahaha]] Mr President, is there a way to calm down in the room?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u139	Yes. That's because Mr. Bogaert just arrived! There are people who treat their entrances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u140	Welcome!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u141	Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u142	Mr President, the arguments put forward by the authors and the political groups that support it do not at all reflect the real problems that exist in the Defence, let alone the problems that really arise from practice on the ground. We believe that there are indeed major problems to be solved in Defence, above all in terms of the working conditions of our military, in terms of remuneration and the manner in which recruitment policy is carried out. Negotiations are also under way with the trade unions, but they are still in the fridge because we are in a period of day-to-day business. Members claim removal allowances when they have to go to work further. Obviously, here, with our salaries, having to travel is not so much of our concern. It also refers to telephone allowances, bicycle allowances and excess pay for weekend benefits. The unions say, however, that in terms of recruitment, these small wage improvements are just peanuts. What is problematic in recruitment is the question of upgrading the profession through an increase in gross wages and the very status of the military. Today, far too many proposed contracts cover only periods of four or even eight years. It is not with this kind of contract that we will motivate the women and men of this country to engage in defence. Of course, the issue of bilingualism should not be overlooked. This is part of the discussion of social consultation. According to the echoes, there would even be positive examples of military encouragement of bilingualism. As a party, it is hoped that these discussions will remain within the bounds of social consultation. It remains to be seen how the protection of citizens will be better guaranteed if the percentage of one language group compared to another is better balanced than today. So we really ask ourselves a lot of questions about the issue of this bill. Is not its objective to divide? However, Belgium from below and, in this particular case, the military needs more unity. For these reasons, we will vote against this text. We're one, wij zij één.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Moscufo. I believe that the problems you have raised will give rise to a series of discussions on the Commission's programme for January in order to deepen the other topics you have discussed, in particular in terms of recruitment, training, etc. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u144	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (721/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (721/4) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u146	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Robby De Caluwe, Goedele Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u147	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Dominique Sneppe. She refers to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u148	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote for a bill that determines the turnover of refundable proprietary medicinal products and a marketing contribution for the year 2020. The PTB has tabled an amendment to increase the basic turnover contribution. The purpose of this contribution is to make the pharmaceutical sector responsible for the financing of social security. This sector accounts for a large part of its turnover thanks to our social security. It therefore seemed logical to hold him accountable for budget overruns. In 2006, the turnover contribution rate was 9.73 per cent and, in 2008, better control of the INAMI budget had reduced the rate to 6.73 per cent, as is currently the case. However, we are faced with several major problems. According to the calculations of the Monitoring Committee, by 2024 the budget for medicines would grow by no less than EUR 1.4 billion. Pharmaceutical companies are doing well and continue to make significant profits. The budgetary overrun is caused not only by volumes but also by the increasing price of medicines. Therefore, we believe that it is justified to increase this contribution by 2% and to bring it down to the 2017 rate, i.e. 8.73 %, in order to empower the sector. When I proposed in committee the increase in the levy, in order to make the pharmaceutical sector more responsive to this difficult budgetary situation, both the N-VA and the Flemish interest said that it was necessary to consult with the pharmaceutical sector before deciding to do so. If I understand correctly, those parties think that before we increase the contribution, we should consult the pharmaceutical sector first. I can already judge their answer a little bit. More contributions to social security will reduce their profits a little bit, so they will not be happy about that. Colleagues of N-VA, when you decided in 2017 in the Swedish coalition, together with Open Vld and CD&V, to increase the price of antibiotics, did you ask the patients' opinion? The patients had to cough up that difference. The average antibiotic bill increased by more than 85% between 2016 and 2017. Patients had to cough up an additional EUR 24 million in that year. But then you apparently didn't think it was necessary to consult the patients first. They were just asked to pay. For us it must be done with two sizes and two weights. An increase of 2% for the pharmaceutical sector is only normal and, given the good health of the sector, is no more than a fair contribution in the current budgetary context. I call on all the other parties to support our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u149	Mrs Merckx, I would like to correct you. We did not say that the pharmaceutical sector should be contacted to see how much taxes it wants to pay; we said that we know less about the impact of that proposal. I have a bit of the impression, and along with me a lot of colleagues, that you have just stuck a number to it. You want +2 %. Why not +1,5 % or +3 % or +20 %? That's not really clear in your responsibility, I have to admit. We will abstain from voting on your amendment. The intention is good, but your responsibility is a little brief. Why exactly 2 %? It's not clear to me. It is probably not clear to many other colleagues. Someone from the minister's cabinet also explained that the resources do not end up where you want them to end up, namely in health insurance, but that they end up in the overall functioning of the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u150	Mr Creyelman, the RIZIV is, of course, part of our social security system, and I do not know if you already knew that. I have here the report of the discussion in committee. Mrs Dominiek Sneppe literally said: "A possible increase in charges should be part of the negotiations on a new federal government. In any case, consultation with the pharmaceutical sector is also required." Even if you claim that this is not the case, Mrs Sneppe has said so literally in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the N-VA, I would like to clarify that we will support this proposal. At present, we are dealing with a mini-government in current affairs, but the current cases do need to be carried out. We absolutely do not want to hinder the operation of medicinal products policy. We will not support PVDA's amendment. Mrs Merckx, I repeat that we have already seen very clearly in committee that the distribution of funds for recoverable proprietary medicinal products is very disproportionate. You will go with a 2 % cheese scale through all sectors through which you will treat the innovative sectors, the specialties and the generics in the same way. In the hearings on shortages and lack of medicines, we have heard that not all pharmaceutical companies can be treated in the same way. We therefore do not support your cheese-shaving method. However, we want to make very clear the accessibility of medication for our patients, as we have already said in committee. We aim at innovative and new medications. We are therefore focusing on a new future pact, as several Members have said in this House. Mrs Merckx, in your cheese-shaving principle, with which you remove 2% of everything without thinking, we do not go along.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u152	Mr President, the legislative proposal before us is normally part of a programme law. In the absence of a regular budget, there is now no programme law, but there is still a need for income from the levy on the turnover of refundable medicines in Belgium for the financing of health insurance. With this proposal we provide a legal basis so that, as in previous years, we can collect the above-mentioned levy. This bill also maintains the percentages of the levies we have known in recent years. So this is not a new policy. It is only this bill that guarantees that health insurance does not have to lose certain income because of the particular political situation in which we find ourselves. We deliberately choose not to make any adjustments to the percentages. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that this revenue last year accounted for almost EUR 264 million. As far as the PVDA-PTB amendment is concerned, we do not, of course, support that either. It is indeed a randomly chosen percentage increase. The pharmaceutical budget has been drawn up. This disappears into the regular RIZIV jar and does not benefit the patient. This is often referred to as the big enemy, the big pharmaceutical companies. As Mr Depooster has pointed out, there are also many other players involved in the market. I am thinking, for example, of producers of generic medicines, some of which also make a great deal of profit, but not all of them. I am convinced that many of these pharmaceutical companies make less profit than, for example, the suppliers of a number of laptops from the PVDA-PTB fraction, or the main supplier of its advertisements. It's a sales tax. It's not a tax on profits. That is why we think it is logical that we should keep the percentages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u153	We are actually talking here about part of the financing of health insurance, in particular the administrative budget. A contribution from the pharmaceutical sector has been standardized for years. This contribution is also necessary in order to get the administrative budget in order. The legislative proposal creates the legal basis for this. This will ensure that a contribution from the pharmaceutical sector can be wiped out by 2020. This contribution must be made, otherwise the administrative budget of health insurance is not in order. We will support the bill because it is necessary. Within the framework of the health insurance budget of a new fully-fledged government and within the framework of the RIZIV budget, a debate will be needed in the future on the contribution of the pharmaceutical sector and on the accountability of the different actors in the pharmaceutical sector. What is a fair contribution? Can this debate be held with a view to creating a pax pharmaceuticals and the pharmaceutical pact? Probably. In any case, this fair contribution must be made. For us, this contribution will have to go beyond the present contribution, but it will have to be aligned and not linear. We are not in favour of a linear increase for all medicinal products producers. I have already said this to Mrs Merckx. We do not want to hit all actors in the same way, because with a linear increase some actors are pushed out of the market. That's not the point. We do not want that, but there must be a new, higher, fair contribution from the pharmaceutical sector. This contribution should be adapted for the different actors. This debate will have to take place in the light of a new pax pharmaceuticals industry, as the Minister has just admitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u154	Mr President, I would like to reply briefly. Parliament has recently set up the Fund for the White Anger. This means an additional expenditure, so Parliament must also effectively look for new revenue. I would just like to stress that this is an increase of about EUR 70 million, if I have calculated it correctly. Last week, PVDA released calculations on the 25 medicines that cost RIZIV the most. If we apply a fair price in Belgium, we could save more than EUR 400 million. In addition, 7 generic medicines are included, to which RIZIV has spent more than EUR 280 million. If we applied the prices in the Netherlands, we could save EUR 170 million. So our proposal is not extreme at all. It is indeed a contribution increase, but it is necessary, because the pharmaceutical sector is always exceeding the proposed budgets. I therefore think it is only natural that we should ask for an additional contribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u155	Mr President, we will support this bill but with a signal for the future, namely the importance of greater accountability for the pharmaceutical sector. In all the economies that were imposed on the health sector under the last legislature, the only actor that did not respect these economies is the pharmaceutical sector, unlike the other players that remained in the beacons and even had to compensate for this failure. The stakes are major – with innovative medicines or gene therapies – and the accountability of the pharmaceutical sector will be very important with a view to obtaining reasonable prices for patients and for social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u156	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u157	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (802/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (802/4) The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in a proposal for a law imposing charges on the business rate of the recoverable proprietary medicinal products and a contribution to marketing for the year 2020." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u158	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 2 - Sofie Merckx (802/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u159	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u160	Sustained: the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u161	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u162	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u163	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u164	Mr President, I must report orally, because the written report is not yet ready. We discussed this draft law in the Committee on Defence on 18 December. First, there was an introductory statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, Mr Philippe Goffin, who opened his speech with a reference to the activities he had carried out immediately after his appointment as Foreign Minister and Defence Minister. His visit to the Belgian military who participate in foreign missions in Niger, Mali, Lithuania and Afghanistan, just before Christmas and the end of the year took an important place there. The Minister states that the draft law, as every year and in accordance with Article 183 of the Constitution, proposes to establish the military quota for the following year. The military quota for the year 2020 expresses the maximum number of military personnel allowed to be under arms on the same day in 2020. The figures in the draft law refer to the number of soldiers expressed in individuals, both for the reserve framework and the active framework. The figures therefore do not correspond to full-time equivalent effectives. For 2020, the quota shall be 27,249 soldiers. This number is achieved in the month of December and consists of 25,870 soldiers of the active framework and 1,379 called soldiers of the reserve framework. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the soldiers of the active framework are divided into 25,430 soldiers and pupils in the personnel envelope and 440 soldiers outside that envelope, the latter as a result of the occupation of a special position or of a special administrative situation. In 2019 the military quota was set at 27,881 soldiers, in 2018 at 29.225 military. In the general discussion there were questions from a number of members. Mrs Annick Ponthier of the Vlaams Belangroep notes that the military quota is falling continuously. The question is whether this will not have an impact on the security of the country, its citizens and defence personnel in the long term. Mr Hendrik Bogaert of the CD&V Group wishes to obtain figures on the age distribution of the military and the military quota by category, sex and language system. What is the evolution of the difference between, on the one hand, the requested military quota and, on the other hand, its implementation? What is the long-term view of the military quota due to the end-of-life problems? Ms Nadia Moscufo of the PVDA-PTB Group pointed out that the number of soldiers was steadily falling. Negotiations are currently under way with trade unions on staff shortages in some services and on the bottleneck of the workload. Defence staff are asking to make the profession more attractive, including through the granting of permits to improve staff's purchasing power. Will the voluntary suspension of benefits be final? How many people have applied for suspension in the past? Mr Maxime Prévot of the CdH said that the committee should consider in the short term the human resources policy and the prospects of recruitment and the effective completion of open relations. The army must be made more attractive and younger staff must be recruited. One of the bottlenecks is that soldiers must stay at work longer. How will the tension between the generations in the army be resolved? Mr Michael Freilich of the N-VA Group asked for the reason for the significant increase in the number of members in the reserve framework. The commander of the land component, Major General Pierre Gérard, expressed the will to establish a second motorized brigade. Is it possible within the quota for discussion or is it a pre-collection of the quota for the future? Mr Christophe Lacroix of the PS Group noted that the number of military personnel was steadily falling, as a result of poor personnel policy in the defence sector. The policy of recent years has always undermined the status of the military and their missions. The primary task of Defense is to take care of the men and women who assemble the army. That is why his group has tabled a motion for a resolution on HR policy in the defence sector. Ms Kattrin Jadin of the MR pointed out that the draft law was necessary to ensure continuity of service. The speaker agreed that a reflection on the future of staff management in the army was necessary. It is a good thing that hearings will be held on this subject. One of the reasons for the staff management problems is that the proposed reforms were not implemented until the end. Then I come to the Minister's answers to the questions put by colleagues. The Minister promises to provide the committee with the detailed figures on the composition of the military quota. The objectives in this respect are in line with the 2016 strategic vision. The reserve framework has increased as soldiers outside the staff envelope can volunteer or be called upon at the end of their career. No one currently has the status of voluntary suspension of benefits. The Minister is aware of the problems of personnel policy. One of the first problems raised when he took up his position as minister is that of the age pyramid. It has not been adapted to the future challenges of the Defense Department. Consideration should be given to how competences can be transferred and how new recruits can acquire the necessary knowledge as soon as possible. Efforts should be made to make the army more attractive. The government is currently in current affairs, which limits the scope for action, but allows for a wide-ranging debate in Parliament. This could also provide input for future government negotiations. As far as voting is concerned, Article 1, which contains the constitutional basis, is adopted unanimously. Articles 2 and 3 were adopted with 13 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The draft law as a whole was adopted by name with 13 votes in favour and one abstention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u165	Mr President, as my colleague has explained in the report, this law sets a reduction in the number of military personnel. It has been a strategic choice since 2017. For us, but also for the entire peace movement, a further reduction in the number of military personnel could mean a break with the war policy Belgium has been opting for for years. Fewer soldiers, fewer wars and fewer civilian casualties. It's not exactly that. In committee, we were many to ask what will be done with those F-35s we bought. We got some answers from Normand. That's one aspect. Moreover, this has also been said in the report, we have a problem with how to recruit and refer to the age pyramid. The minister himself announced that he was discovering with his new function this problem of age pyramid. But the age pyramid is not something that falls on us overnight. How is it that this has not been taken in hand before? We're wondering. I come back to the explanation I gave earlier that the problem of recruitment is related to working conditions and pay. We are also very afraid of this legislation, of this strategic choice. We believe that there are conscious choices to extend as much as possible certain tasks towards outsourcing, and that this choice will jeopardize the overall employment of the military, but also that it reflects a desire to move towards some form of privatisation. We do not share this political choice. That is why we have not supported this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u166	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u167	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (844/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (844/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u169	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, in our committee, we discussed the draft law on the ratification of KBs concerning the federal contribution. In her explanatory statement, the Minister indicated how the federal contribution works, namely that it should be charged and finally passed on to end-users in cascade fashion. It finances several cases, including 69% of the operating resources of the CREG and the Gas and Electricity Funds. It has also pointed out that it is normally a formality to ratify it and that it is necessary to ratify it. This is particularly necessary because the tax is actually a tax and must therefore be effectively ratified by law within 12 months of the adoption or entry into force of the Royal Decree. Several Members then took the floor. A number of political groups have expressed themselves to a greater or lesser extent about the delay in submitting the draft to the committee again and again in order to discuss it quickly. Following the discussion, Mrs van der Straeten announced that she would table an amendment on the question of the Gas and Electricity Fund. It proposes an adjustment so that an additional 6 million could be provided to reverse the non-indexation since 2012, the freeze during the Di Rupo government. Several Members then took the floor. Some felt it was not so nice to arrange this in the short term, in other words to put it on the table while it was in the very last stage. Some members also referred to the fact that a similar proposal has been discussed several times in the committee, both in rounds of questions, in which the Minister has defined and made clear its position, as well as in the examination of Mr Warmoes' motion for a resolution. Among other things, he raised a number of issues on that point. The Committee had considered that it would be better to deal with this as a whole after the completion of a number of hearings and so on. Some Members also voted in favour of the amendment so that it could be put to the vote. The various replies covered topics such as 6 versus 21% VAT, the increase in energy billing and the release of all kinds of resources for, among other things, capacity mechanisms. Following the replies, it was finally concluded that Mrs van der Straeten's proposed amendment and Mr De Maegd's amendment which dealt with the problem and contained a large part of the objections. The committee then voted on the second amendment because it contained the elements of Mrs van der Straeten's amendment. Mrs van der Straeten's amendment was withdrawn. For example, it came to a joint amendment, which was subsequently adopted unanimously by the committee. This led to a unanimous vote on the draft law itself. Mr President, that was my report. If you will allow me, I will proceed immediately with my explanation on behalf of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u171	Please proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the eternal problem that ratifications are always far too late. This must indeed be ratified within a period of 12 months. However, no one is asking for 12 months to wait for ratification. It is therefore only logical that we should be encouraged to come forward with such matters more quickly in the future, so that at least a proper debate can be held on them. After all, we also know why it is happening at the last minute. That's because the sanction is so strong. If such a royal decree is not ratified, this means that the royal decree would never have had any effect, which in the case of a federal contribution that finances a number of cases has a huge impact. It is absolutely clear that such cases should be avoided in the future and that we should also be sure to question the whole process of ratification. We must ask ourselves whether these matters should not be dealt with in a different way. On Mrs van der Straeten's proposal not to ratify part of the royal decree, I must confess that my party has looked at it with an open mind, but at the same time it is difficult to see it. Any increase in the invoice is an increase too much. At the same time, it is very difficult to explain that certain points are not being done and are not being included. There is a fund that has been frozen since 2012 and should be specifically used to give the OMCWs the resources to help a number of people so that they can participate in the energy transition and not work with material from the last century. Let us be honest. Our energy has become more expensive and even more expensive. All kinds of items are included in the invoice which are not really part of it. What's the result? Who's the least affected by that? Those are the people who live in a passive home, who have new appliances and who with their solar panels manage to pay the prosuming rate in Flanders at the end of the journey, but who otherwise no longer have energy costs. Who does it bother? Those are the people who live in a house that is still to be renovated, usually a rental house, who have a fridge that probably has been inherited from two generations before and who will pay most of the invoice at the end of the journey. That is something that should at least be considered, especially as a Member of a Parliament who has, over the past few weeks and years, smilingly decided that we could open up our funds in the field of international climate finance and decided to introduce the capacity mechanism, although it is known that the CREG believes that such a mechanism may cost EUR 14 billion. If we then have to discuss the possibility that a proposal could have an impact of around EUR 0.5 per year on households, then some things must be balanced. There was a long repeated demand to finally do something about those sleeping funds that have been parked at the CREG for so long. There is money there for which the legal basis has been abolished and no one can spend it. At the same time, we have another fund that would have been helped out of need with only part of it. I am therefore pleased that we have finally come up with a proposal, in cooperation with just about everyone in the committee, that unites these two issues. It allows indexing for the Gas and Electricity Fund and provides a solution for the dormant funds so that this does not have to have an impact on the invoice that families and companies have to pay. That way we solve a problem that arose in 2012 when those funds were frozen for the first time. I am pleased that I have been able to work towards a solution and that the committee has unanimously reached a result which we have been able to play on the ball briefly to alleviate this need. With this we give the OCMW's the opportunity to help these people. It's not just about handing out pennies, the pure curative aspect of matching annually, we give them the means to lower the bill year after year and save energy. That is a noble goal that we are very keen to pursue. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u173	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Wollants for his report, his presentation and the very constructive committee meeting that we had yesterday. The draft that we received yesterday in committee was a draft that everyone probably thought we would have to finish. Bone there, done that . Each year, at the end of the day, the urgency to confirm the decisions on the federal contribution is still being called for. Colleagues, in case you wouldn't know, the federal contribution is a tax on the energy bill that consists of several parts. These different parts finance a lot of things, such as the operation of the regulator, the cleaning up of the nuclear cemeteries in the Kempen and also the Social Fund for Gas and Electricity. This fund is an operational tool for the OMCWs to do social energy policy. In October of this year we all read in the newspaper about the Platform Against Energy Poverty alarm bell, founded by the King Baudouin Foundation. The platform then referred to the poignant lack of resources in the OMCWs. Energy poverty in our country is increasing in such a way that the OMCWs are no longer able to follow. In 2017, they received 120,000 people. The OMCWs must adapt from their own resources to help those people. We all know these examples, from our own city or municipality. Also in my own municipality, in Koekelberg, the OCMW has to fit for people who come knocking. In a city such as Ostend, where there is a very proactive social energy policy, there is also an addition of own resources. The OCMW's are doing a fantastic job on the ground, on two levels. They help people pay for their energy bills. But they also take preventive measures. They often see the most vulnerable people. Vulnerable people who, for example, come to live in a house that was previously uninhabited. People who have no knowledge or expertise, and that can be anyone here, and who face an advance from a supplier that is far too low, because the property was previously uninhabited. Afterwards, they will receive an annual account of EUR 400, 500 or 600 and will not be able to pay them. It's those people who often go to the OCMW for help. It's there that the OCMW adjusts. The OCMW asks those people what kind of house they live in, with what kind of device they heat. Those people are explained in Ostend, for example, how a thermostat works and in whom an energy scan is done. It's that way, back to basics and with the feet in the earth, that the people of the OCMW work every day. Colleagues, that is why what we did yesterday was extremely important. Yesterday we supported those people who are in reality every day. We can have major debates on the federal contribution, on whether the federal contribution should be financed through the energy bill and on the degressivity. I agree with all these debates. I agree with those Members who say that we need to find a more fundamental solution. We will also have the debate on this. We will hold hearings in our committee from January onwards. But these fundamental debates should not prevent us from taking a small first step. If we can take that step as legislator, we must do so. I am glad that we were able to take that step on the committee yesterday. Perhaps after me people will come and say that it was a little late and too short on the ball and question the scheme. The reporter referred to it in his report. But, ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't really matter. We are all elected Members of Parliament. Our job is to make a law. Whether we do this in advance for two weeks or make laws at a time limit, here in plenary, is what we do. What we did together yesterday is much more fundamental than that. In fact, we kept talking to each other until the last minute. We have tried to understand each other until the last moment. We have assumed that there are many people living in a precarious situation in our country. According to the CREG, there are 400,000, especially single-parent families, especially low-income people. We did it for those people. That's what drove us. We have continued to listen to each other in order to find an answer to the question of how best to deal with funding. By talking to each other, we noticed that there was a sleeping fund at the CREG that we could use. Finally, in committee, we have produced a single global amendment, which we will adopt here in the near future and which will enter into force in January. As a result, the OMCWs will receive an additional 6 million next year, which they can work on. Colleagues, our work is obviously not done. It is not because we have now taken that first small step that we can go home and take a holiday. No, we have much more work to do! The King Baudouin Foundation has made several recommendations. It has not only recommended re-admission of indexation but also concluded that structural resources are insufficient. It doesn't take $6 million, it takes $30 million. The debate on the amount of money needed to implement a social energy policy will continue in our committee from January. We will therefore be able to discuss the method of financing. Should this be done by means of State resources or by other means, or whether we are using the federal contribution to this? We can take our time. We will hold hearings on this, we will hear the regulator, we will hear the poverty organisations and also the consumer organisations. That's what it's all about: connecting the stakeholders in the debate. Yesterday we not only listened to each other, we also listened to society. It's that way I'd like to do politics. I am very optimistic about what happened yesterday. If we can maintain the same way of working, we can achieve many good things. Mr President, you may be a proud President of the Chamber. Soon we can all be proud of what we could achieve. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking you all for your constructive cooperation and for your continued listening and searching for the most ideal solution. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister, who stayed in our discussions until the end. I hope, of course, that the Minister will come forward with the decision on 2020 very soon in January. Yesterday we completed the work on the calendar year 2019 and, of course, we still have to settle 2020. Perhaps this will be possible in January and we will succeed in drawing the line. Then we have put that right forever, as far as indexation is concerned, and the way is open to work on a more structural approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u174	Mr. President, I apologise for not registering. Colleagues, according to this morning's press, it looks like we're a little depressed, we're not morale, we're a little blues. I don't know you, but I, at least, feel pretty good. The CPAS and the King Baudouin Foundation had indeed launched a terrible alarm cry. As a young Member in this House, I am pleased that this Parliament has succeeded in hearing the message sent by the CPAS and the King Baudouin Foundation. As a young Member of Parliament, I am even very happy to be a member of an Assembly which, being not in a regular business, dares to take on its responsibilities, dares to take initiatives, hears the message from the ground and works to address the concrete problems of the citizens of this country: housing, feeding and heating. In short, a dignified life is a top priority for the Socialist Party. Lifting the indexation freeze of the Gas and Electricity Fund is, of course, a partial but concrete response to this concern. As has been said, energy poverty affects more than one in five households, particularly isolated people, single-parent families, and the risk of insecurity increases for tenants and families in small, low-cost housing. Some people even have to choose between eating and heating today. The CREG also tells us: between 40 and 50 % of single-parent families and between 20 and 30 % of single-parent families are affected in their daily lives by energy insecurity. The situation is obviously unbearable. Heat can't become a luxury. It was therefore necessary to provide a concrete response. Yesterday, in committee, what I will call a "red-green coalition" to combat energy poverty was set up. It managed to launch the debate, then to open up to other political formations, to convince and finally to find together a concrete, pragmatic budgetary solution that does not impact the household budget. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a good look at this as a first step. No slogan, no shortcut and also a sense of truth. The answer we are providing today will not, on its own, eradicate the scourge of energy insecurity. We're bringing 6 million euros. It would take 30 to refinance the Fund in line with needs. This is a first step because, in the future, our approach will have to be global and cross-cutting. I referred to this in committee this morning as part of the hearings on the capacity compensation mechanism. In order to make this issue of energy insecurity a real priority, we will have to think intelligently about degression schemes and ensure that we find the right balance between companies, households and the state budget. So this is a first step. But this is an important first step that will appeal to others.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a study published on 5 December this year, the CREG once again highlighted the facts. As many as 400,000 families in Belgium risk energy poverty. They are families who have to use 15 to 20% of their net disposable income to pay the energy bill. The evolution of the electricity price is also clear. In 10 years this price has risen by as much as 62%. OMCWs are unable to follow and have to adapt from their own resources. No longer than two weeks ago, a resolution of PVDA-PTB was discussed in committee, the first of which called on the federal government to put an end without delay and without reservation to the regime in force since 2012, with the funding of the Gas and Electricity Fund no longer being adjusted to the index. This freezing measure to control the federal contribution to the final invoice, introduced at the time under the Di Rupo government, has been held under the Michel government in recent years. At the same time, the Michel I government agreement promised an evaluation, restructuring or adjustment of the social energy funds, including for fuel oil. I do not think that much has been done. However, Mr Wollants has given a lot of arguments to support the substance of the indexing of the Fund once again. During the discussion in committee of Mr Warmoes and Mr Daems' resolution, a very large majority of my colleagues wanted to deal with the adjustment of resources to the index, the increase in these contributions, the adjustment of the indexation mechanism and the adjustment of the method of financing in a structural, integrated and global way. Hearings were also requested and organised for this purpose. Those hearings will take place after the ceremony. I was therefore somewhat surprised when yesterday was pushed on the accelerator. Quite a few colleagues were caught in speed. In the end, a number of legitimate concerns were addressed by colleagues. Their concerns were also ours. It is therefore a good thing, Mr Van der Straeten, that the consequences of the failure to ratify Articles 2 and 3 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2018 should not affect the final customers' invoice, however small it would actually have been or would have been. It is equally positive that the amount of EUR 6 million linked to the non-appointment should be withdrawn from the so-called dormant funds available or from the general budget. There should also be no retroactive recovery via the final customers' invoice. Mr Van der Straeten, I will not be as Mr De Vriendt did just now. On the contrary, I congratulate you. That's something else, isn't it? It is unusual in Parliament, but perhaps I will do so in the next few years. For many years I had been used to the somewhat corny working of a county council and yesterday I had to take a bit of breath with all that athletic intellectual ability. Mr Van der Straeten, you did exactly what you did on 22 October, when we together put an oral question to the Minister on this matter, and did not repeat it two weeks ago, which I found somewhat regrettable. The conclusion is that Parliament must be allowed to do its job. The Minister sat there yesterday and looked at it, sometimes a little head-shaking and monstrous, despite budgetary neutrality. Mrs van der Straeten, I would like to congratulate you and all the colleagues involved. Mr President, of course we will approve the final result of all this work. We hope that further steps will be taken towards a more social energy policy. We will continue to work on it in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the debates that were a bit of a stir yesterday. On the form of the discussions in committee, I was able to express some reservations. Mrs Van der Straeten, I know your positive character, but I would still like to say that elegance would like my party to be invited to the meetings, even informal ones, that you are organising. Let us be well-accounted for, in substance, this text is good news for households in energy poverty in our country. For the MR, this is the main thing. I welcome this and would therefore like to congratulate you on the initiative, Mrs Van der Straeten. That has been said. The Energy Poverty Reduction Platform called for an end to the frozen budget of the Gas and Electricity Fund, which was created to provide assistance in the provision of energy to the poorest people. If you'll allow me, let's do a brief retroact! By royal decree of 14 November 2012, the funds were frozen for the years 2012, 2013, 2014. We continued this policy, but it dates back to the Di Rupo government that was in office in 2012. The following government followed the same policy from 2015 to 2019. Sensitive to the issue of energy insecurity, Minister Marghem and her services had examined the consequences of a possible thaw for 2019. The funds frozen since 2012 amount to €30,750,170 for electricity and €22,140,122 for gas. On the basis of the November 2018 price index, the indexed and unfrozen 2019 funds could amount to €34,115,412 for electricity and €24,563,096 for gas, i.e., to be precise, as we mention the figure of six million, an additional €5,788,216 in total, which is unfortunately far from the 30 million needed. Colleagues, the initial amendment tabled by Groen, the PS and sp.a had an impact, even in a very weak way, on all end consumers. We opposed it. On my initiative, we have therefore tabled a sub-amendment, which, after intense constructive negotiations, has led to a comprehensive amendment, proof, if any, that Parliament has a real role to play. Indeed, when Mr Malik Ben Achour refers to the blues of parliamentarians described by the press this morning, I also register in contradiction with this because I find our action positive. For our group, the main thing is not to impact households' bills. Moreover, in the current political situation it is essential to ensure budgetary neutrality, which is why reference is made to dormant funds and to the use of the flat-rate reduction fund for natural gas and electricity heating. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the start of my speech, this is good news for households in energy poverty. Malik Ben Achour spoke of a red-green coalition of struggle – these are his words. I would like to add, however, that a touch of blue has made it possible to find a painless compromise not only for the state budget but also for households, which I welcome. As a counterpoint to the work carried out in haste, my group and I wish not to remain there and to work, like you, in a serious, constructive and structured way on the problem of energy insecurity. This was mentioned in particular when it came to hearing from the actors on the ground, which is foreseen in the Climate and Energy Committee in early January. The aim is to find lasting solutions in this area together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u177	Mr President, Madam Minister, as a novice, allow me to express my astonishment. In fact, we are being asked today to validate two royal decrees, which date from December 2018 and which came into force on January 1st of this year, so almost after a past year. I think that's kind of a weird way to do it. I heard yesterday that the royal decrees for 2020 have already been approved by the government. Perhaps you can confirm that, Madam Minister. I hope we won't have to wait a year before we can discuss it! Colleagues, on October 15, the King Baudouin Foundation published the results of the study of the Platform for Combating Energy Poverty, a study entitled Revalorisation of the Gas and Electricity Fund. You know that the King Baudouin Foundation publishes a barometer of energy insecurity every year. In the latest barometer, which includes the 2017 figures, it can be said that 21.7% of households, more than one in five Belgian households, are affected by some form of energy insecurity, and that 120,000 households have been helped by the Gas and Electricity Fund, which – I would remind you – feeds the country's CPAS to help people in energy difficulties. The findings of the study of the Platform are without appeal. The first point that is denounced is that the resources of the Gas and Electricity Fund are declining in real terms because of the freezing of the indexation of its budget by successive governments since 2012. The amount of the Fund is now blocked at EUR 53 million. If it had been indexed, it would now amount to EUR 59 million, which is slightly more than 12%. In addition, this Fund freeze deprived CPAS of EUR 21 million. For example, some CPAS have to finance aid to households in energy poverty from their own funds. However, you all know that, for other reasons, CPAS are already in great difficulty. It is enough to think of the many young people who register to benefit from the income of social integration. The study also indicates that indicators of precariousness are not included in the Fund's indexation. The budget, even if indexed, does not take into account the increase in precariousness, nor the cost of human resources implemented by the CPAS; nor the increase in the energy bill, much higher than the increase in the consumer price index, even higher than the average price, in that country. In view of this, the PTB took the initiative to table a motion for a resolution incorporating the study's recommendations. There are four of these: to end the freezing of the Fund's indexation as quickly as possible; to revise the indexation mechanism to take account separately of the evolution of the cost of wages in the CPAS and the evolution of the price of gas and electricity; to provide an additional 30 million from 2020 to feed the Fund; to review the method of financing, socially unjust because paid by consumers, via the electricity or gas bill. Alternative financing, from general sources, should be provided by the SPF Economy, as is the case with the Social Oil Fund. For us, aid to the poorest must come from taxes so that those who have more than enough to live contribute more than those who find it difficult to make their end of the month. The least poor must help the very poor. The fact that the King Baudouin Foundation published this study, as well as all the work done by the Platform to combat energy insecurity, and the tabling of a motion for a resolution by the PTB, caused a surge in the Energy Committee and in this Parliament. This is a humanitarian shock since yesterday we unanimously decided to abolish the freeze on the indexation of the fund's budget, in force since 2012. This frees up six million euros to combat energy insecurity. The community and the CPAS had not been heard by this government. They have been done by this Parliament. We salute him. Indeed, we also welcome the fact that these additional amounts will not appear on households' bills, but will come from other funds or general state resources. For these reasons, of course, we will vote in favour of the bill as amended yesterday. But let's be clear! Colleagues, this is just a first step. This is only a modest refinancing of the Fund, but of course it is totally inadequate. La collégue Van der Straeten l'a déjà dit aussi: "The work is not finished." Of course, we call on all political groups to work together on the basis of our motion for a resolution and the hearings to be held on 8 January in order to take the problem to the root, and to refinance the Gas and Electricity Fund in the long term. Thus, our CPAS will be able, without any restrictions, to help all households that are in difficulty in paying their energy bills. Several speakers said here: Several speakers have said that we should take our time, but many families cannot laugh at that. We must do it seriously, but we must also realise that it is an urgent and pressing problem for many families. That is with respect to clause 2 of this bill, which was the only clause that was really strongly debated yesterday in committee. I will have a few more words to say about Article 3, which is devoted to another royal decree, which we did not discuss yesterday, and which concerns the social tariff for gas and electricity, and therefore the protected customers. As I have already said, the annual barometer of the King Baudouin Foundation indicates that energy insecurity is a growing problem. One of the reasons, of course, is that gas and electricity prices continue to rise and are an increasingly important part of household budgets. The social rate has the merit of existence, but it is in relation to that a drop of water in the ocean, especially since it is unfortunately constantly increasing. In the last four years, the social rate increased by 46%. This means an extra 240 euros on the household bill. I'm talking about poor households, precarious households. In February of this year alone, the social rate increased by 22%. We do not find it normal for the social tariff to follow, in a way, the price of electricity and gas. To combat energy insecurity, it was not the Fund that helped the CPAS that had to be blocked. What had to be blocked was, of course, the social rate. Another thing bothers us in the way this social rate is paid, because it is currently the households that finance this social rate through the federal contribution. But where's that money going? It goes to producers, ENGIE Electrabel, EDF, etc. We believe that producers also have a social responsibility and that it is up to them, from their super-profits, to pay this social rate for the households that need it. The right to energy is a right that must be enjoyed by all. It's up to them to guarantee it. For this reason, we abstained yesterday in the vote on clause 3 of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u178	Colleagues, reference has already been made to the Platform's call for energy poverty. If I have listened carefully, it has ruined all the parties in the hemisphere. Mr Depraetere drew attention to the need for something structural to be done with the fund. Mr Wollants has already pointed out that the fund was frozen in 2012, but that was of course when VAT on energy was also increased to 6%. This government has put it back at 21%, but the fund has remained as it was. That was a problem and we are doing something about it today. Our group is therefore very pleased that we can take that initiative and make that effort. It is an excellent initiative, Mrs van der Straeten, but you have also referred for a moment to the fundamental debate. That is a call for all of us to take the time to review the system thoroughly in the coming months. We are very pleased that we should not be dealing with the problem today through the energy bill and let families take the fall for it. That is a very good thing, but we do have a problem with our electricity bill today. I will mention three things that we find problematic. Firstly, if we really want to win the fight against energy poverty, then the electricity bill must fall. That's obvious. Secondly, our electricity bill has actually become a tax bill today, a bad tax bill, because as a socialist it is quite obvious to me that the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. Of course, that's not what happens to the electricity bill. That's not right. Thirdly, we discussed climate policy earlier. Anyone who follows that theme closely knows that there too there is a need for a transition and that we must ensure that electricity becomes cheaper. If we want to invest in a heat pump today, the electricity bill does not encourage us to do so. These are three very important reasons for absolutely opting for change and a new system. It'll take time. I understand that, but we are certainly not avoiding that fundamental debate. We want to take part in the answer to the question of how we can do better for this country in the future. I have listened very carefully today and I feel that there are some people in this hemisphere who would like to participate. The work has not yet been completed, but we will support this proposal and this important decision today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u179	Mr President, first of all, I welcome the work that has been done in committee, practically from one end to the other unanimously. All groups have joined forces on imperatives that sometimes seem contradictory and yet are very healthy, namely on the one hand, the fight against energy insecurity and support for the poorest, and on the other hand, caution. The aim is to ensure that other consumers do not once again suffer the impact of this social concern, since this problem is currently solved by the invoice. The state budget has been examined with great attention as we are in day-to-day business. Speaking of the government, Mr. Warmoes, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 22 per cent increase you cited, which was supposed to affect the bills of protected customers, was not. Indeed, Kris Peeters and I, together with the federal government, have taken the decision to block this increase to prevent it from having an impact on protected clients. This increase was quite extraordinary, in fact, by its magnitude, and would have had a severe impact on the invoice of these customers. I wanted to make it clear to you for that to be clear. This also means that, contrary to what has been said, this government has been concerned about energy insecurity by acting in this way, and today the case is on track. The work on this issue had begun under the previous government, I must not remind you, since Mr. De Maegd told you. I myself had done so in previous speeches. This blocking of the indexation of the federal contribution, which was linked to other concerns, began under the Di Rupo government in 2012. We have pursued this policy for many reasons, and it will obviously be appropriate – in the light of the hearings to be held at the beginning of January – to review all its aspects and ramifications in order to try to get out from the top. With a robust policy, we will be able to achieve such contradictory a priori imperatives as maintaining a decent bill for all consumers and taking into account protected customers and those in energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u180	Madam Minister, you may not have confirmed this 22%, but here I have the figures from 2015 to 2018 where we see for Flanders in February, in euro cents per kWh, 14.75 euro cents in 2015 while in 2018 we were already 17 euro cents. You can hardly deny that you have increased households' energy bills by increasing the VAT on electricity by 6 to 21%. It is clear to everyone that during this legislature, the bills actually increased as a result of your management. On the other hand, yes, you continued a measure decided by the Di Rupo government, but you added another layer and decided to continue it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u181	Mr. Warmoes, I don't want to be right about you. I'm just telling you that the increase you mentioned was blocked. I'm surprised you didn't record it since we did it at the beginning of the year and you were already there. Secondly, the electricity bill is actually increasing, but it needs to be analysed in all its components to see why it is increasing. There are many things to say about this. With regard to VAT, we will never agree. So I don't want to be right about you, but it's linked to another imperative. You know very well that this reduction in VAT under the previous government was linked to an index jump that we wanted to avoid. It was therefore preferable to benefit the consumer or, in any case, the Belgian citizen by this reduction. We have a completely different view of this issue. When we realized that allowances and wages were indexed late because of this reduction in VAT, since electricity is part of the index basket, we acted differently and restored VAT to 21%, knowing that the Di Rupo government had applied this reduction on a temporary basis, indicating that it should be accompanied by a study to measure all aspects of it. These include the delay in indexing wages and family allowances. We can repeat the debate a hundred times – and Parliament has the right to the last word – but we do not agree and we will disagree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u182	I consider the general discussion to be closed. Several speakers made statements. The minister replied to them. Mr. Warmoes replied a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u183	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u184	No, Mr Van Hees, this is not the way it is going!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u185	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u186	No, no. All the groups have registered, including yours. And this one had the chance to reply a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u187	The Regulation...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u188	The rules? I know him better than you do, Mr. Van Hees, to say so. Rules set the stage for debate. If you exceed them all the time, you go, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u189	Mr. President, not even thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u190	So Mr Warmoes was unable to speak on behalf of your group? Then correct it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u191	Mr President, the minister has said something that appeals to me. I just want you to confirm to me, Mrs Marghem, that this drop in VAT was a disguised index jump. So, the visual posted on Facebook by Mr Michel saying "Victoire: decrease in VAT!" Was it false advertising?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u192	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u193	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (832/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (832/4) The bill has four articles. The draft law has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u194	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u195	The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u196	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u197	Two amendments have been tabled, one by Mr Van Hees and one by Mr Van der Donkt. Does anyone wish to take the floor on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u198	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment is aimed at abolishing the subsidy for operating costs to the political groups. The savings will be €9.6 million. In Belgium, traditional parties are the undisputed champions of self-service. They have created for themselves a system of grants, allowances and endowments that is dreaming. The sums are incredible because, over 40 years, the amounts have increased tenfold to a total of 70 million euros per year. The N-VA alone receives more than 10 million euros per year. It wanted to introduce an amendment aimed at reducing these amounts by 2%, but it built up a fortune of almost 40 million euros. This party funding system should be completely reviewed. In the meantime, we are introducing this amendment because the usefulness of this subsidy raises questions. This system was introduced in 1971 to finance the staff of the political groups. In 1995, the Bureau of the House decided that all of these employees would be paid by the House. But the subside was maintained. Finally, what is the use of this subsidy of almost 10 million euros? It is known that salaries, accommodation and furniture are paid by the House. Members receive computers, printers, etc. What remains to be paid with these EUR 9.6 million? I found the staplers. Indeed, staplers are not paid by the House. But €9.6 million for staplers is still a lot! That is the point of our amendment: it is to abolish this amount of more or less EUR 10 million, out of a total of EUR 70 million that the parties receive. It's a seventh of the total amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u199	There is also Amendment No. 5 tabled by Mr Van der Donkt, Mr De Roover, Mr Lachaert, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Vanbesien, Mr Matheï and Mrs Kitir. Does anyone wish to speak for that amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u200	Mr President, our amendment aims to save EUR 600,000 on the part of the parties. A similar amendment has been discussed in committee and I am pleased that it is now widely supported by the groups of sp.a., Green Ecolo, Open Vld, CD&V and, of course, the N-VA. That is a fine example of political cooperation in order to achieve a consensus across party boundaries. I can add that the proposal in committee was also supported by the PVDA-PTB and the Flemish Interest. I would like to call on those who remain behind to vote in De Waarmste Week to approve the amendment in such a way that we can come up with a proposal to the outside world and to the public that is supported by the whole Chamber. I have one more comment. We have also drawn up a legislative proposal which will be considered in the near future. The amendment is a first step in reminiscing the entire legislation on donations to the political parties. Our group is prepared to begin discussions on this during January. As far as the PVDA-PTB amendment is concerned, I would remind you, Mr Van Hees, that we have become 'rich', as you say, thanks to the management as a good father of the money we have been given on the basis of a law that we voted against. That was not on the basis of the regulation on which you are tabling an amendment, but on the basis of the law on party voting, why you did not make any proposal to abolish it yourself. However, this is an annual contribution of EUR 32 million. So you're quite populist when you refer to our party in your argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u201	Mr President, we are in favour of this. If savings are to be made, the political parties must also be covered and the amounts can be reduced by EUR 600,000. At the same time, there is the commitment to address the law on the financing of political parties and to discuss it in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u202	I understood that this was the intention, certainly from what I was told about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u203	Mr President, for the sake of the Flemish interest, it is time to finally save money on the political system itself. This must be done at all political levels. At this very moment good proposals are being made in the Flemish Parliament. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret: as far as we are concerned, the ultimate objective is to abolish this Parliament and the entire Belgian political level, rather than yesterday. Having said that, it is important in these times of savings, surrenders and higher taxes that the country's political system also contributes. However, it strikes us and everyone who looks closer at party funding that the traditional parties, despite the huge electoral defeat and a huge drain on the number of members, have managed to keep their party funding at almost the same level in recent years. Traditional political structures are mainly self-preservation, which is now clear. More importantly, today these same traditional parties are ready to tackle the financing of the major parties in particular. That is very hypocritical, because the traditional parties have waited until they themselves are small to deal with the big parties. Of course, better late than never. The Flemish Interest is prepared to take its responsibility. We in the committee supported the savings proposals on the financing of the political parties, and we also rejected the very hypocritical attitude in the Green and CD&V committees. The abolition of indexation for the political groups was finally approved, the abolition of indexation for the political parties was not approved. We understand from the amendments, also from the withdrawn and re-tabled amendments, that behind the scenes there has been a bull's-eye on something that should nevertheless be our shared responsibility. We therefore regret that we were not involved. Nevertheless, we will accept our responsibility and support the joint amendment. We therefore approve it, albeit not without condemning the ambiguous attitude of CD&V and of Green and, above all, the hypocritical attitude of the shrunk traditional parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u204	Mr President, I will not dwell on my explanations. We have tabled and signed the amended amendment together with several parties, because it sends an important signal by applying an index jump not only for the group donations but also for the party donations, which is not currently applicable anywhere else in society. We are therefore doing this exclusively for the political system. That does not mean that we can start a debate on the financing of parties. Let us do this with an open mind, without taking pre-emptive measures. At the moment, we are making a substantial effort of EUR 600,000, equivalent to an index jump for next year. We will fully support this effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u205	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u206	Tableau p. 100/Table p. 100 • 4 - Marco Van Hees (866/2) Tableau p. 103/Table p. 103 • 5 - Wim Van der Donkt cs (866/2) * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u207	The vote on the amendments, the 2018 accounts, the 2019 budget adjustment and the 2020 budgets of the House of Representatives and the endowments to political parties will take place at a later date. The vote on the amendments, the 2018 accounts, the 2019 budget adjustment and the 2020 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and of the donations to the political parties will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u208	The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u209	Mr President, these are twelve institutions which, for the sake of their statute, have their budget approved directly by the Chamber for their independence. This is about EUR 100 million. The most important one is the Court of Auditors, which is good for half. We have looked at these budgets in two sessions with the executives and those responsible. It has been shown that these are very diverse and many structures in which there is much room for optimization and a common back office. The committee asked for a thorough review of the joint study of the Court of Auditors and Ernst & Young, which made a number of suggestions. Today, these suggestions have been introduced or assessed very limited for implementation. The result of the situation in which we find ourselves is that a total of EUR 100 million has been requested. There is even a larger amount in the general budget. It is good that we are moving to normal budgetary procedures as soon as possible. The committee proposes that these budgets be formally approved. These institutions foresee a lot of other cost increases, but they are subject to approval. The Committee proposes that they come forward with a proposal on the implementation of optimization. In short, the Committee proposes that the payment of the amounts is subject to an implementation plan, and that the minimum approved is only an increase of 2% compared to last year. This means that the committee is asking for EUR 102 million to be released only EUR 96 million. This is an incentive for the institutions to come up not only with big slogans but with savings proposals, knowing that there are a number of institutions that effectively have additional needs, namely the Constitutional Court, the P Committee, and the Data Protection Authority. The proposal was adopted, but the report, which you have undoubtedly all read in full, contains this remark, which I have summarised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u210	Mr Leysen, I think you have produced a very full report. In the committee there was, by the way, a great consensus. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The vote on the 2018 accounts, the 2018 and 2019 budget adjustments and the 2020 budget proposals will take place at a later date. The vote on the 2018 accounts, the 2018 and 2019 budget adjustments and the 2020 budget proposals will take place later. I ask the clerk to have the call made so that Members are called to the vote. Several members are also in the Forum building on the other side, where some take part in the Bikeforlife action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u211	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the MR Group and I are calling for urgent action on the bill to fund the end-of-career measures for local police officers for the year 2020. In 2014, the Constitutional Court cancelled the preferential pension scheme for members of the integrated police operational framework. In 2015, a Royal Decree was issued to ensure that staff members who meet the conditions can either benefit from an end-of-care scheme with suitable employment or from a non-activity prior to the pension. However, funding for this measure was planned until 2019. Today, therefore, funding for end-of-career measures for local police officers must be sustained for the year 2020. In this context and after consultation with the Ministers of Budget and Pensions, MM. Clarinval and Bacquelaine, we have tabled this text to provide just over €46 million in federal funding for this scheme. At a time when municipalities and police areas are finalizing their budgets, if this is not already done, we need to move forward quickly. We therefore call for urgent treatment of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u213	Mrs Taquin asked for urgency for her Bill No. 895/1. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u214	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of our Brexit bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u215	You refer to the proposal to maintain employment following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 880/1? Can you justify your request for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u216	Mr President, I am asking for urgency because the legislative proposal should be able to enter into force on 1 February 2020. For that, we need to be able to deal with it at the committee meeting of 7 January 2020. That is why I would also ask you to send the bill to the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lanjri is asking for the urgency of her Brexit bill. We are not going to have a long debate on this. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u218	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of this proposal. 885/1 by Mr Van der Donkt and others, including myself, on the restrictive control of electoral expenditure, which may be a possible follow-up to what we have just discussed. It would be good if this could be done in good order as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u219	The issue of legislation on the financing of political parties has just been raised. There's a bill on the table. Mr De Roover is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u220	Mr President, we have just approved savings for the political groups and for the political parties. I think that's a good thing. We therefore have a duty to adapt the rules governing the financing of political parties. Mr De Roover knows that the method he chooses with the proposal is not mine. However, it is absolutely essential that we discuss this with each other in order to somehow find a majority in our assembly in order to at least implement what we have adopted today, and if possible more. My suggestion would be that the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee should, I think, be you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the course of January, call upon the committee to organise a first general discussion on the political groups. I have no objection to the fact that the proposal would later be used as a coat rack, but I think that we should discuss this without delay, so that we can land and come up with a proposal in the spring. In that sense, I suggest that the urgency should not be granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u221	It is not about a regulation amendment, it is about legislation. I do not therefore think it is the Rules of Procedure Committee, but the Constitutional and Institutional Renewal Committee, but whatever it may be. It's important to talk about it. Mr Verherstraeten said that it might be urgent to talk about it, but not just on the basis of the proposal submitted by the N-VA. I have also listened carefully to what was said in the Comparability Committee. I would like to make a commitment to address the legislation on the financing of political parties in the Conference of Presidents in order to find a mode of action there to allow the issue to be discussed with a high degree of urgency, not only on the basis of the proposal of the N-VA, but also on the basis of other texts, which can be added to it. Is it not wiser to do so, so as not to give the impression that a text is chosen? I believe that other ideas can be raised. But there is an urgent need to discuss this matter. I will take it upon myself to agree a working method at the Conference of Presidents. Can you live with that, Mr De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u222	It is very strange that urgent procedure should be requested and used as an argument not to approve urgency. There's something weird in there. I'm not smart enough to really figure out what the point is, but I don't trust it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u223	You still have not said whether you accept my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u224	Since the fallback position is yours...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u225	(...) you could live with my proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u226	I could live with your proposal and your word is holy to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u227	Now you're out of line.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u228	In the secular sense of the word, Mr President, with a small letter 'h'. Then may I assume that on your engagement there is also a date stuck? I heard Mr Verherstraeten speak of spring, without mentioning a year. I would very much like to take your word for it if you have a date on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u229	Let us agree that you no longer use the word 'holy', but my word is my word and I have just given the order to register it on the agenda of the forthcoming Conference of Presidents. Then we will agree on a method.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u230	Then I amend my speech and delete the word "holy."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u231	We're in agreement again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u232	Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck on article 4. (229/7) Vote on Amendment No 20 by Catherine Fonck to Article 4. (229/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[15]] Yes No. 82 No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 18 by Eliane Tillieux on Article 7. (229/7) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Eliane Tillieux to Article 7. (229/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[60]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck on article 7. (229/7) Vote on Amendment No 21 by Catherine Fonck to Article 7. (229/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 50 Yes No. 63 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 7 was adopted with a correction of text. Vote on Amendment No 19 by Eliane Tillieux on Article 8. (229/7) Vote on Amendment No 19 by Eliane Tillieux to Article 8. (229/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[60]] Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck on Article 8. (229/7) Vote on Amendment No 22 by Catherine Fonck to Article 8. (229/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 52 Yes No. 61 No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted with an improvement in the text. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 8 was adopted with a correction of text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u233	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 81 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (229/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (229/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber rejects the bill. Consequently, the House rejects the bill. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u235	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Mrs Sofie Merckx on Article 2. (802/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Mrs Sofie Merckx to Article 2. (802/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes [[10]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 132 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (802/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be passed as a bill with Royal Assent. (802/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (844/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (844/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u238	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (832/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (832/5) Ladies and gentlemen, I come to many votes now, but you can spare me and yourself the burden by allowing a number of times that the result of the previous vote also applies to the following. I'm just making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u239	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u240	Yes 107 Yes Non 10 No. Abstensions 15 Abstentions Total 132 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2018. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u241	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u242	Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2019 budget year of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u244	Yes 106 Yes Non 10 No. Abstensions 15 Abstentions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the 2020 budget year of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2020. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u245	Mr President, I forgot to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u246	I take note of your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u247	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u248	Yes 108 Yes Non 8 No. Abstensions 10 Abstentions Total 126 Total Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] As a result, the House adopts the 2018 budget year's accounts of political party endowments. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2018 of the donations to the political parties. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u249	Mr President, I voted, but it doesn't work anymore. I voted yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u250	And you weren't in conversation by pure chance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u251	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u252	In any case, it doesn't change the material fact of the vote. I explained it in the Conference of Presidents. We take note of your statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u253	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees in the table p. 100. (866/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees on table p. 100. (866/2) Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u254	Yes 10 Yes Non 122 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 132 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Wim Van der Donckt cs in Table 103. (866/2) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on table p. 103. (866/2) Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u255	Yes 98 Yes Non 29 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u256	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u257	Yes 104 Yes Non 10 No. Abstensions 15 Abstentions Total 129 Total As a result, the House adopts the budget for the fiscal year 2020 of the allocations to political parties, as amended. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the financial year 2020 of the donations to the political parties, as amended. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u258	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 131 Total Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2018 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2018. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u259	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u260	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2019 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u261	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u262	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Court of Auditors. Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals 2020 are adopted by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u263	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u264	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u265	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u266	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Constitutional Court. Consequently, the Court adopts the Constitutional Court's 2020 budget proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u267	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u268	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u269	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u270	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2018 budget year of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the adjustment of the budget of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u271	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u272	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Supreme Court for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u273	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u274	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u275	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u276	As a result, the House adopted the adjustment of the 2018 budget of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u277	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u278	Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2019 budget year of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u279	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u280	As a result, the House adopted the 2020 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u281	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u282	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u283	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u284	Accordingly, the House adopted the 2020 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u285	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u286	As a result, the House adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u287	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u288	Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2019 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2019 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u289	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u290	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u291	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u292	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u293	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u294	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the 2019 budget of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the adjustment of the budget of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u295	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u296	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u297	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u298	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2018 of the Appointment Committees for the notary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u299	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u300	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Nomination Committees for the Notarial Society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u301	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u302	Accordingly, the House adopts the accounts for the 2018 budget year of the MRD Commission. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u303	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u304	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the MRD Commission. Consequently, the Court adopts the BIM Commission's 2020 budget proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u305	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u306	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Audit Body for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u307	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u308	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2019 budget year of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the adjustment of the budget for the financial year 2019 of the Supervisory Body to the police information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u309	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u310	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Supervisory Body on police information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u311	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u312	Accordingly, the Board adopts the 2018 budget year accounts of the Federal Ethics Commission. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Federal Deontological Commission for the financial year 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u313	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Oui) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u314	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Federal Ethics Commission. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Federal Deontological Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u315	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u316	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Consequently, the Court adopts the 2020 budget proposals of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u317	Mr Registrar, have we come to the end of our agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the last meeting for 2019. I would like to thank you all for the debates that we have not been able to hold in politically clear circumstances. There is no majority. There is no opposition. It's a bit of a special context. Across borders of majority and opposition, which used to exist, we have nevertheless succeeded in doing some fundamental legislative work here and there. I repeat that this does not mean that if we want to work structurally in the country, we need a government. We need a government that has full powers. In the meantime, the House can still be commended for the legistic work it has done. In the coming days and weeks, I'd like to wish you a very pleasant party. I wish that to the government, to the Prime Minister, to the members of the government. I would also like to wish that to the Registrar, to the Deputy Registrars and to the staff of the Chamber who have always been very helpful to us. [[Applause]] I would also like to wish that on behalf of the representatives of the press. As you can see, the press banks are full. There are two people from Belga, who come not only when there is sensation or tumult, but who follow our work very closely. Thank you for that. I wish everyone a very heart-warming holiday. I give the floor to Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u319	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the many thank-yous, all of which are quite right. For obvious reasons, you surprise me, because normally the leader of the group of the largest opposition party is speaking. That is a different honour in these circumstances, and that means that we have all actually waited for the last vote to see who is actually the largest fraction of the minority. Imagine if we had stopped asking for the assistance of the Council of State for some initiative, then perhaps the PS would have been the largest minority party, as has been shown today. Imagine if there had been a proposal to reduce the remuneration of Members to EUR 1 and 10 canings per month, then I suspect that the PVDA-PTB would have been the largest opposition party. I also understand that Mr Verherstraeten believed himself to be the biggest opposition party in the word 'purple'. If we were to continue with polls, which of course we are not doing, I think that colleagues on the right might be the largest opposition party. If a proposal were put forward here who is honestly convinced that we do not need nuclear energy and everyone would vote honestly, Mr Calvo would be the biggest opposition party. [[Hilarity]] In short, it is actually a little dependent on the question that is being asked. But since the rest of the government, a word that has not just become the word of the year, was still more likely, since the rest of the government nevertheless shows palliative persistence, I have to take this honour very exceptionally. However, I will not prolong this, contrary to what my introduction suggests. I would like not only to thank all those whom you have honoured, but also all my fellow Members of the majority and opposition, although these words now have a somewhat meaningless meaning, for their generally correct cooperation. In these times without government in full force this is of the utmost importance. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their generally correct cooperation, which, in these times without a government, is of the utmost importance for us as a Parliament and as a legislative authority to play our full role. I invite colleagues to do that again by 2020. My Francophone colleagues, too. I wish them everything they want in 2020. That's all I mean.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u320	I thank you all for the friendship and the collegiality. Make it a good year. Happy New Year 2020!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-19-55-plenair-ip018x.u321	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 9, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 9 January 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
