ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u1	Mr Laaouej is not present and therefore his question No. 26387.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u2	Madam Minister, students can be employed for a quota of 475 hours of work per year to reduce RSZ contributions, i.e. to a solidarity contribution of 8,13 %, of which 5,42 % are borne by the employer and 2,71 % are borne by the employee. The RSZ has apparently recently accepted that students subject to the solidarity contribution will have access to the scheme of net overtime in the hospitality sector. This is a specific system in which overtime is exempt from overtime and catch-up and is not subject to social contributions or to corporate tax. This particularly advantageous scheme for employer and employee applies to voluntary overtime and overtime due to exceptional increase in work or unforeseen need, which should not be caught up at the employee's request. These exemptions on social security, taxation and overtime apply to a maximum of 360 hours per employee per year. All employees employed full-time by an employer in the hospitality sector or by a temporary agency with a user of the hospitality sector are eligible for this measure, including occasional workers and flexi-jobbers. Until recently, the RSZ considered that students indicated with a solidarity contribution could not make use of it. That used to be the rule. The RSZ seems to have recently revised its position in the sense that students now have access to this scheme. This means that no solidarity contribution is due on these overtime hours either. Moreover, these overtime hours are not included in the quota of 475 hours. This change in RSZ's position affects the maximum quota of 475 hours per year that students may be employed to reduced RSZ contributions. In addition, it has an impact on social security income. After all, students are already employed on reduced social contributions and this measure allows them to be employed up to 360 hours a year in addition and completely untaxed. Moreover, unlike for other employees in the hospitality industry, these hours should not be indicated in the DmfA. Why did the RSZ's position change on student access to net overtime in the hospitality industry? What's the reason for that? This measure is nevertheless contrary to what has always been the starting point of student labour, in particular that students can be employed only 475 hours a year for reduced RSZ contributions. With this measure, 360 hours will be completely free of charge for students working in the hospitality industry. Where did this switch come from? Why shouldn't this be reported in the DmfA? How will it be checked that these students perform only 360 overtime as this should not be indicated in the DmfA? This means that students working in the hospitality industry can be employed more hours a year on reduced RSZ contributions compared to students working elsewhere. Isn't that contrary to the principle of discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u3	Mr Vercamer, if there is discrimination, this can happen on both sides. In other words, the scheme applies to all. If that's what you want... all madness on a stick, here's my answer to your question. Together with you, I take note of this amended interpretation of student labour regulations on the one hand and of the legislation on net overtime in the hospitality sector on the other, by the RSZ. It is up to the RSZ to correctly interpret and apply the rules. The RSZ shall do so under the responsibility of its Management Committee. It seems to me that the regulation on net overtime in the hospitality sector would also apply to students. Any full-time employee in the hospitality sector may benefit from the net overtime scheme. However, the 475-hour quota is the total quota within which the student can work, free of contributions but with payment of the solidarity contribution. If, by applying the net overtime scheme in the hospitality sector, there is no solidarity contribution to these hours, these hours should, in my view, be included in the 475-hour quota. In other words, whether a student works in the catering industry or elsewhere, the quota is 475 hours. It has always been said that the same rules apply to all students. I must, of course, look at this with Minister Peeters, the Minister for Employment, Economics and Consumers. We're both authorized to do this. We will contact the RSZ together. That it can't be done this way, that's right. Even if students perform less hours and work overtime, they should not exceed their quota of 475 hours. That remains the principle, as was agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u4	Clearly, Madam Secretary. So 475 hours is the total package, regardless of the form they are performed. With that position, you will go to the RSZ, to discuss and settle the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u5	Madam Minister, for new employers there are a lot of target groups reductions, such as the first recruitments. New employers are employers who have never been subject to the RSZ for the employment of an employee for at least four consecutive quarters prior to the quarter of recruitment of a first employee. For them, we have a lot of target group reductions. There are also several advantages for these new employers. The problem is that there are a lot of questions about the interpretation of the concept of a new employer. This concerns in particular situations where a company or an independent activity is discontinued or taken over or goes bankrupt and is taken over after the bankruptcy. In these situations, there is a great deal of discussion about whether it is a new activity or whether it is a continuation of the previous activity or business. In practice, I see signs that it depends on the auditor whether it is a new activity or whether it is a continuation. I have a number of questions about this, because legal certainty is important for those who carry out a new activity. Madam Minister, can you clarify how the notion of "new employer" should be filled in in situations where an enterprise or self-employed activity is discontinued and then another company or self-employed activity is operated at the same location? What criteria do you think should be used to determine in those cases whether that other undertaking or self-employed activity is new or whether it is a continuation of the previous activity or undertaking? Can you confirm that if an undertaking or an independent activity is discontinued, whether or not it is failed, and subsequently another undertaking or an independent activity is operated at the same location, that undertaking or an independent activity is new if it has no standing with the previous undertaking that was present there and focuses on another market and another clientele? What is your answer if that company or activity is related to the previous company, possibly through a takeover? In this case, is there also a new activity or a new employer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u6	Mr van Peteghem, questions about the criteria for defining a new company often come back to this committee. A distinction must be made between the conditions which apply to be regarded as a new employer of a first to sixth employee, the conditions which apply to assess whether that new employer is part of the same technical unit of business and the question whether or not the newly recruited worker replaces an employee previously employed by one of the employers forming part of the same technical unit of business. The conditions for determining whether there is a new employer are therefore assessed solely on the basis of the employment of the natural or legal person who recruits the employee for whom he wishes to apply a reduction in contribution. In other words, only the number of employees employed simultaneously by that natural or legal person during the four quarters preceding the quarter in which the new employee is recruited shall be considered. If the conditions for being considered a new employer are met, the question must be asked whether the new employer, together with other natural or legal persons, constitutes the same technical unit of business. The RSZ uses fixed criteria to assess that, which criteria are generally known and are also mentioned in the administrative instructions of the RSZ. It should be noted, even though the legislation governing this reduction does not contain an explicit definition of the concept of the same technical unit of business, that the criteria applied by the RSZ are generally very well followed by the courts and courts. As part of the harmonised reduction, there is a single technical business unit where two or more legal entities are linked by at least one common person, who can be both an employee and a manager, and who have a common socio-economic basis. Some of the elements that may indicate this are the fact that the place or buildings where the activities are carried out are either at the same location or in each other's vicinity; the activities, in the case of related and/or complementary activities; the operational equipment, which may be partially or entirely the same; the businessmanship, whether the business activities of the companies address the same customers. These criteria do not therefore imply that the various employers must have been active together in order to have the same technical unit. The same technical unit may also be formed by employers in succession over time. In the case of an undertaking in failure where another undertaking continues a similar activity at the same site and re-acquires one or more employees who previously worked there, there will be the same technical unit, even if the management is carried out by a completely different person. The principle that an employer who continues an activity after a failure constitutes the same technical unit with the company that went into failure has already been confirmed several times by courts and courts. As far as the first part of your second question is concerned, this means that if it is a very different activity, there can be no single technical unit. As regards the second part of that question, given that it concerns two similar activities, there will be the same technical business unit if there is at least one employee or manager in common. It is clear that the application of these criteria in practice involves a certain assessment factor, for example as to whether the activities are complementary. However, it certainly does not depend on the individual auditor's assessment as suggested in the question. Doubts are assessed by a limited number of RSZ specialists to ensure the most unambiguous application possible. In the case of the same technical unit, it is necessary to establish the highest number of employees that all employers who form the same technical unit have worked together in the four quarters preceding the recruitment of the new employee. If the recruitment of the new employee does not result in an increase in the total number of employees employed by all employers who make up the same technical unit, then there is a replacement and the reduction cannot therefore be applied. If it is established that an employer fulfils the conditions for being regarded as a new employer, but the employee for whom he applies for the reduction of contribution according to the rules set out above must be regarded as a replacement within the same technical unit, the employer will have to repay the reduced contribution applied to the RSZ and there will continue to be no entitlement to the reduction in contribution for that recruitment. In other words, the right shall be definitively established at the time of recruitment. The principles set out above must be applied again and again when an employer recruits an employee for whom he wishes to apply the reduction. I can therefore recommend that this be examined in advance so that there are no surprises.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u7	Madam Minister, thank you for the very clear answer. The comments on the auditors mainly dealt with the fiscal aspect, but I have to be honest that this is a very clear answer. It is important that people who take over a company know effectively whether they are considered to be new employers. I believe that the application of these rules shows a very clear vision and also gives certainty to those companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u8	Madam Minister, the government agreement states that the government would take an initiative in consultation with the Regions to combat the abuse of the au pair statute. The practice shows that this is necessary. An au pair younger is a youngster who is temporarily admitted to a host family where he costs and enjoys accommodation in exchange for light daily household duties. However, he is mainly there to complete his linguistic and cultural knowledge of the country where he lives, by participating in the family life of the host family. In this way he can also broaden his overall development. According to the Royal Decree of 9 June 1999, people from outside the European Union should apply for a work permit B. That is what is needed so that one can monitor. In any case, the au pairer is not a nanny, babysitter, servant or servant. In the spirit of the au pair system, cultural education and linguistic enrichment must prevail. In order to avoid the employment aspect becoming the main objective of residence, the legislator has imposed a number of conditions to prevent any abuse. For example, the participation of the au pair in the household tasks should be limited to a maximum of 4 hours per day and 20 hours per week. Moreover, the host family must agree that supervisory officials will have access to the property, if requested. However, a study carried out by the Flemish Social Inspectorate shows that 72 per cent of the host families checked comply with the rules. Furthermore, evidence shows that the employment aspect often takes precedence over cultural education and the exchange aspect and that the au pair status is seen by some as a channel for legal labour migration. Sometimes the au pair itself thinks that it can work in this way in Europe. Since European au pairs do not need to be registered, it is difficult to identify abuses with them, although of course there are. Following the figures of the Flemish Social Inspectorate, the Flemish Parliament asked the SERV to consider what could happen to prevent the abuses. One of the recommendations relates to your policy area, Madam Minister: the SERV recommends that every au pair, both European and non-European, should have a dimona for the employment relationship. The contract of employment must take account of the specific obligations for the au pair system, namely that an au pair works up to 20 hours a week and that the main objective is cultural exchange. Thanks to the dimona system, we know at least who is working as an au pair in our country, we can exercise control and abuse. Madam Secretary, what is your opinion on the proposal to deal with abuse of au pairs, inter alia, through this instrument? Does that seem feasible to you? I realize that the government is in ongoing business, but I would like to hear your views on the problem so that we can pick it up after the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u9	The only regulation relating to au pair young people is the Royal Decree of 9 June 1999 implementing the Act of 30 April 1999 on the employment of foreign workers, a decision falling within the competence of the Minister for Employment. The au pair younger is defined as a young person who is temporarily admitted to a host family, where he costs and enjoys residence in exchange for daily household duties to perfect language skills and expand general development through better knowledge of the country, by participating in the family life of the host family. The au pair and the host family must meet certain conditions specified in the mentioned KB. The conditions are laid down in the agreement for the placement of an au pair to be concluded between the family and the younger person, otherwise the family will not be given a work permit. In particular, the young person must undertake not to carry out an employment during the au pair placement. It is provided that the participation of the au pair in daily family responsibilities, including babysitting, shall not exceed four hours a day and twenty hours a week. That should also not be the main objective of the stay. The dimona is the electronic message by which the employer indicates every take-up and exit of an employee at the RSZ. That declaration is mandatory for all employers in the public and private sector. Since there is no real contract of employment in the case of au pairs, there should also be no dimona declaration. In the event of non-compliance with the conditions of the Royal Decree, the au pair shall be presumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, to enter into a contract of employment of domestic aid with the host family, with all its consequences in the field of social security, such as the payment of social security contributions. Where appropriate, a dimona declaration should be required. I am not in favour of providing for derogations from the system of dimonas for situations where there is no contract of employment. I agree, however, that control must be carried out and that there can certainly be sanctions, which means that families will indeed have to pay social contributions. Moreover, this would create an impossible administrative burden for families who do follow the rules. I am in favour of a more comprehensive system of control for those who do not follow the rules. In this respect, I look forward to the initiatives of the Minister for Employment, who is responsible for the regulation of au pairs. If I have to cooperate within my competence, I will be delighted to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I already recognised in my explanatory statement that au pairs are indeed not employees; we do not make them. I understand that for you dimona is necessary for an employment relationship. But if the SERV itself comes up with the proposal, the members of it have thought about the matter; they are not stupid - and so, as I see, that some form of registration helps to control who is in the country, who is staying with the au pair and whether or not the maximum number of working hours is exceeded, then I think we should examine that slope. You say you don't want to work through dimona. Do you have other solutions, such as another registration system? The problem is that today, even for the European au pairs, there is nothing at all. They don't even have to apply for a work permit. There the number of abuses is probably even higher. In its opinion, the SERV suggests that, like other countries, a contract of employment should be introduced, just to protect those concerned, in which work is still not primed, but cultural exchange. I'm comparing it to the regime for the job student. For a job student it is also the number of hours...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u11	Student labour is indeed subject to a contract of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u12	That's right, but that's also where SERV wants to go. He is in favour of such a contract in which cultural exchanges are central and yet there is limited employment, as can be done today, namely 20 hours. In other countries even more hours of employment are allowed, but we do not need to increase the number of hours. The point is that if we follow that slope, au pairs will be recorded and the au pair system can be controlled. We really need to see how we can solve the problem. Madam Secretary, you spoke of the Minister of Work. I have, of course, already asked the Minister of Work several questions about his field. He's also dealing with the problem. I hope that you will work with him to see what can still be done to deal with the abuses. We seem to have failed to do so during the present legislature. Hopefully it will be possible to include an approach to the problem in the new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 26722 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u14	I notice that this question dates back to 1 September of last year. I am a little surprised that the administration has still not answered that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u15	Mr President, I tabled my questions on 15 May last year. The fact that there has not yet been an answer is one of the reasons why I am now putting them again orally. This makes me very bored because it concerns six pages of questions for figures. I would like to begin with that, but I wonder how the Minister will be able to answer it in such a way that we can still understand it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u16	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, despite a great deal of pressure, I have still not received the figures requested. Together with Minister Peeters, I requested the results from the RIZIV rather quickly, but we have still not received an answer. Memories were sent. On September 5, 2018, I turned directly to all VI's to repeat the question urgently and to provide me with the exact statistics. The VIs replied that many of the requested data are not kept. To my surprise, the VIs have failed to collect these figures. It's just a decision that was made on its own. Hence perhaps the lack of follow-up. I still think this is a very important matter. On 5 October, together with the Department of Benefits of the RIZIV, I convened a working group to map out the data that could be measured. The VIs were also instructed once again to carry out the necessary measurements and to systematically pass on the results. We have had the working party meet several times in the cabinet. In all this time, it has been very difficult to provide some of the information requested once. However, it is very partial information. Not all VI's reacted in the same way, in the sense that one VI would not give anything and provided the other partial information. We cannot, therefore, draw any conclusion or even draw any conclusion. Everything starts with the figures to be supplied from the sickness funds, but apparently they do not want to do anything about it. One is hiding behind ICT, the other indicates lack of staff, and so on. I think they cut off the branch on which they sit. If the VIs do not do what they have to do, as the government commands them, they will increasingly hear the echo that they are superfluous. That's my strict conclusion from all this saga. At first they said they would provide the figures, but still the data were not forwarded. I think they are referring to various factors that make no sense at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u17	Mr President, Minister, I am very disappointed. I'll tell you why in general. I have also asked Secretary of State Francken, for example, many questions about humanitarian visas and, in that context, asked for figures. Well, I never got an answer to those questions either. Afterwards, the visas turned out to be all sorts of things wrong. This is also about the follow-up of policy and royal decisions. What's the effect? This is a new policy on the integration of people on sick leave. It is very important that we know what we are doing in this area. Decisions are being taken. What is the effect in reality? That's the least we need. You have always argued for evidence-based decisions, even in your capacity as Minister of Health. It is also essential in this case that we know exactly what is going on. That is not purely to criticize, but simply to guide your policy more. It is therefore in everyone's interest, not only in your interests but also in our interests, in the interests of patients and insurance institutions, that we should be able to lay the puzzle so that we do not have to drive blind. In the meantime, I have noticed that the figures on disability are rising enormously. How's everything going with each other? In the meantime, I also notice that a lot of people are not integrated, but are being ranked out and their resignation without a cancellation fee. So the effect is indeed a discharge machine. That is absolutely not the intention and we are driving ourselves into the canal in that area. I am therefore very disappointed that Parliament, which has to do its audit work and has to act, will not be given the data to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u18	Mrs. De Coninck, I'm as disappointed as you are. However, there has been manifest unwillingness to cooperate in this. That unwillingness was with some, not all of them. After all, there are those who can follow up on the dossier, while others are hiding behind delayed ICT investment and/or undermanned services. There is therefore a manifest reluctance on the part of some insurance institutions, which, because it does not allow proper follow-up to be done, also do not represent the interests of the patients, of the members of their sickness fund. I simply note that this is an argument to ask whether we still need these institutions to represent these interests. I do not want to throw the child away with the bath water, but I do not think that the way in which some act in this area is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u19	I can only agree with that. I'm chairman now, but I'm just taking advantage of the opportunity. I recall that we all said in the discussion that this should be closely monitored and evaluated. The questions put by Mrs De Coninck are very relevant. I find it really sad that we cannot give this follow-up so that we can draw conclusions from a new policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u20	I hear a fallout to certain mutualities here. There are also questions as to the extent to which employers make efforts to adapt work...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u21	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u22	Yeah, right. We should know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u23	I say that the negligent health insurance funds are not defending their members well. I will forward your questions to all the sickness funds, along with the answer I have given. I think they should know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lalieux's 27043 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u25	Madam Minister, once again I have a question about the support of carers. You're pulling that file hard, but it's not progressing. This question concerns an approach by the European Parliament, which drafts a directive to facilitate or support the combination of private and family life. It concerns the introduction of an individual right to five days of care leave per year, but paid, as in the case of illness. Depending on the case, it would therefore be a guaranteed wage or a sickness benefit, but probably a guaranteed wage, since it is only in five days' time. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about this proposal? Will you take part in defending this measure at European level? Can we also introduce it in Belgium? Since it is particularly difficult to get a breakthrough in that dossier, that proposal may be another one. We are still nowhere. This question was tabled a long time ago, but you know that a cross-party working group is currently trying to give substance to the implementation of the Courard Act. We are trying to do a little more to support carers across party boundaries with an agreement in principle and an amendment. I have the impression that it is even more than an impression that the dossier is once again stalled. I am therefore curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u26	Mrs Dedry, one in every eleven Belgian citizens provides some kind of care. It is often about caring for a sick or needy parent by a partner, son or family, but also the more unusual care situations deserve our attention. For example, we are now seeing more and more parents at an age who are in charge of caring for, for example, a son who has become disabled. Very old people have to take care of children who have become self-employed as a result of an accident or illness. I am also thinking of the neighbor who runs the groceries and keeps an eye out or the sisters who build a kangaroo house for their single mother to move in together. They all have the same thing in common: they are people who free up personal time to take care of someone else. Sometimes this is directly at the expense of the time or career of the person concerned. If the caregiver was not there for the patient, it would be more often dependent on more professional care, on more home care or other care or on residual care. Some people wouldn't be able to live in their homes anymore. These are facilities and forms of care that are expensive, not only for the patient, who has to pay for this, but also for the government, which meets some of the costs through solidarity. That is why I personally believe, like you, that it is necessary to give carers the place they deserve in the care landscape. Informal care is one of the most important but at the same time invisible forms of care that exist. On 19 October 2017, my plan Integrated Care for Chronic Diseases was approved by the Inter-Ministerial Conference, the Federal Government meeting with all regions and all competent ministers. This means that in carrying out the care that surrounds patients, the necessary processes must be developed. These processes must take into account the individual situation of the carers. You know that this has been quite a discussion between me and my colleague. You know that we cannot bring it to a successful conclusion now. There are also discussions at present on a parliamentary initiative. I certainly support the efforts to achieve a proper improvement in the care system. If you want information, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u27	Madam Minister, it is indeed very frustrating that in a working group which is party-crossing, everyone agrees on the principle and wants to bring it to a successful conclusion, but that in some way the egg cannot be laid, while this government, as well as at New Year receptions, and in the Summer Agreement and in many words always stands out for the support of the caretaker, but when it comes to it, it does not happen. In that respect, I am very disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u28	Mr Van Hees and Mr Hedebouw are not present. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u29	Madam Minister, the hearings have shown that there is a need for an electronic platform of the type Student@work where the artistic performances provided under the Small Compensation Scheme can be registered and consulted. In response to my written question number 2299 you indicated that the FPS Social Security in collaboration with Smalls makes a need analysis and cost assessment for such a platform. If a budget could be made available, this platform would be developed in the short term. Madam Secretary, that question dates back to October. Maybe there's news in the meantime. What's the status? What are the results of the need analysis? How high would the cost be? Can we make a budget available for that? When could this enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u30	Mr Vercamer, the Artist@work platform is currently being developed by Smalls in collaboration with the FPS Social Security Office. This platform will consist of two shutters, an informative section and an application for applications for the artist's card, the artist's visa and the declaration of independence. Extension applications and subsequent applications for the addition of activities will also be made through that platform. Artists who have received a favourable response to their card request will then be able to enter their performance on the platform. The system is based on that of Student@work. First one looks at whether one has the right to do student work and then introduces the hours worked. That's how one gets to the 475 hours. If performance is to be introduced after that, it is indicated that there are too many hours. So the counter's running. Now we're going to make something like that for the artists. The platform will also provide an overview of the services provided and the fees already received so that the legally foreseen ceilings are not exceeded. You know that this is often about occasional work and that artists do not always have an accounting mentality. When the IRS comes up with a hit, they often don't know what they've done anymore. We're gonna help them with that now. They'll have to enter those performances there and then they'll be able to check that they don't exceed the ceiling. The budget for the development of these two shutters is estimated at EUR 575 000. There is also a need for EUR 50 000 for the maintenance of the platform. I have reserved a budget for the development of that platform and in 2018 we already paid € 136 000 to Smalls. The information hatch was promised to me before the end of February. There's always some delay, but I'll let you know if it's okay. The part concerning the application is launched in two phases. In a first phase, by March, the platform will be operational for the application of an artist card and for the completion of the performance review by the artist and by April it will also be operational for visa applications. In the second phase, May-June, applications for the declaration of independence and renewal may also be submitted. In a few weeks, the Artist@Work platform will be online and ready for use by the artists. I think that is a real step forward. The need arises from the fact that it is a form of casual work, in which different people engage in structures or organizations that are set up, for example, as a result of a cultural activity and then cease to exist, such as the Ghent Festivals. Those who, for example, don't know where to go after the Ghent Festivals will, I think, be helped by that platform. Those concerned will also find out in good time whether they have reached their ceiling, because exceedances often cause a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u31	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That is indeed very good news and it will certainly be a great help to the people in that sector, who are not always concerned with an accounting mentality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u32	To Question No 1, by Mr De Vries (H- Mrs Dedry's 28135 will answer the Minister for Pensions Bacquelaine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u33	Mr President, Minister, in the past I have asked you a lot of questions about disability in the self-employed. A resolution on this issue was adopted in December 2018. In the meantime, additional measures have also been introduced through legislative proposals on the redeployment of the career period in the self-employed. I would now like to ask you for updated figures and data. In the past, you have already answered my questions that the main causes of long-term incapacity for work in the self-employed were musculoskeletal diseases, followed by mental problems. In 2015, 21,48 % of the number of disabled self-employed persons faced psychological problems. This percentage was 19,59 % in 2011. First of all, what were the main causes of long-term fitness for work in the self-employed in 2016 and 2017? Secondly, how many long-term disabled self-employed persons were affected by mental illness and musculoskeletal disorders, in particular in 2016 and 2017? How do these figures relate to the total number of disabled people? Thirdly, how have the figures evolved over the last five years? Fourthly, is there still an upward trend on musculoskeletal disorders and mental problems? If so, how can this be explained? What explanations do you give? Fifthly, can it still be observed that the percentage increase in the number of people with disabilities suffering from mental or musculoskeletal illness goes faster than the evolution of the total number of people with disabilities? I realize that many of these questions relate to figures, so I do not expect you to go over them all. You can deliver them to me in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u34	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, you have indeed asked for many figures. You know all this needs to be looked up. If you are asking for figures for the last four years, all this must be looked up separately. So they went back to 2013. There was also another codification of the sickness funds and the RIZIV. Until 2015, the ICD9 codification was used to classify the diseases. From 2016 it was the ICD10 codification, both for new entry and disability as well as for re-evaluation. And from 2017 onwards, the ICD10 codification will apply to new entries. Hence the difficulty of getting all the tables together. The disease groups are displayed for 2013 to 2016 under the ICD-9-codification and from 2017 under ICD-10-codification. You have to take that into account, because it is not possible to compare everything. The main cause of long-term incapacity for work in self-employed workers is musculoskeletal disorders and, secondly, the psychological nature. Here are the figures. In 2016, there were 22.07 % disabled self-employed persons with psychological problems. In 2017, that was 22.7 %. The tables also show the evolution of the number of self-employed persons, broken down by disease group, in recent years. This shows that the number of disabled self-employed persons increased by 15,57 % between 2013 and 2017. For the number of musculoskeletal disorders there is an increase from 17,52 % from 2013 to 2017. This growth rate is in line with the increase in the total number of disabled self-employed, in particular 15.5%. In the mental disorders we see a greater increase. From 2013 to 2017, this represents an increase of 29,14 % over five years. The conclusion is that there is a greater increase. Several factors may be at the root of the increase in the number of self-employed persons with mental impairment: links between stress, working conditions, lack of involvement in the job and long-term disability. A recent report on the Flemish workability monitor shows that in 2016 only 51% of self-employed entrepreneurs in the Flemish labour market experienced their job as workable work. They say that work stress and, above all, the search for a balance with private life is very problematic. The 2016 report on the Flemish workability monitor also shows that in 2016 36.2% of self-employed entrepreneurs find themselves in a problematic situation due to psychological fatigue. This is a significant increase of 3% compared to 2013. The 2013 Health Survey also shows a marked deterioration in the psycho-emotional state of the Belgian population aged 15 and over in the past five years. One in three indicates that his mental well-being is not optimal. The mental health problems are mainly in the segment of the previously low-skilled. The creation of a unique causal link between work-related factors and disability is a difficult issue. The causes of long-term absenteeism are usually multicausal. The personal home situation also plays a significant role. In particular, the exercise of a self-employed activity in conjunction with raising children and other private problems, such as divorces, places great pressure on entrepreneurs. A holistic approach is needed, but prevention is literally better than cure. A call for proposals was made at the end of May: 77 projects were submitted, of which 12 were selected, including a project dedicated exclusively to the self-employed. That project is supported by UNIZO, Liantis and Integral. We have earmarked some EUR 300 000 for this. That project was chosen because it is an integrated project, with the aim of testing the best practices in terms of sensitisation, maintenance of work and reintegration, but also to raise first-stage entrepreneurs' awareness of stress and burn-out, both for themselves, some say that a burn-out cannot happen to them, because they only work, but that is not true as it is to deal well with workers who give signals about psychological difficulties, which threaten them to fall out and put more pressure on the other workers. Indeed, in an SME, it is not always easy to replace one sick staff member. The mental resilience of entrepreneurs and any alarm lights they may have to notice to themselves or to their staff are therefore assessed. The second step is prevention. If the first signs occur, one must pull the emergency brake in good time and see what one can do. Guidance is also important here. The third step is the guidance itself to get out of the well: does it have to do with organizational or family circumstances? They are trying to restore their resilience through help and guidance as well as to lower the threshold, because self-employed people often think that there is no help for them and that they cannot be helped. Well, I've had a long conversation with the people of that project. They had long been planning to develop a holistic approach, but the fact that this project is now funded for a year means that they have worked even more on it. Somebody even sacrificed his vacation for that. That's not really burn-out friendly either, but anyway. The results of this project will provide the basis for future policy. That is why we have opted for this integrated project. We have also submitted an application for advice to the Management Committee of the RSVZ on reintegration and on the actions to be taken against mental illness in the self-employed. The working group on this subject is composed of representatives of the institutions of the sector. The advice is expected in the first semester of 2019, i.e. in the coming months. I'll give you all the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u35	Thank you, Minister, both for the figures and for your additions and conclusions. Of course, I would also like to thank you for the pilot projects launched to prevent burn-out in self-employed people. I find it extremely regrettable that the numbers are apparently still rising. This problem really deserves attention. A lot of people, especially if they are long-term disabled, are having a very difficult time, including financially. All due respect for what you are doing with these pilot projects and because there will be a roll-out plan to set up the prevention of burn-out in self-employed people. It is now, as you say, waiting for the results of the pilot projects and the advice. In the past, I have already called for a kind of health budget from the social security system for self-employed workers to support the self-employed during their career and possibly to create a new work organisation or business organisation, or to work on their well-being. In addition to prevention, the re-employment of self-employed persons following long-term incapacity for work is also a priority. There are now re-integration pathways for this. I know that you want to start doing this for the self-employed too, but you wanted to get the employees involved first, but I'm gonna keep knocking on the same nail. I hope that there will also be reintegration pathways for the self-employed. I know you're working on that, but there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u36	Madam Minister, the law of 6 September has gradually increased the length of adoption leave to the length of maternity leave. Of course, we are in favour of any improvement, and we have supported that legislative proposal, albeit as far as we are concerned, the steps should have been a little bigger and faster. But every improvement is one for the better. Article 223ter of the Royal Decree of 6 July 1996 provides for payment of 82% of the loss of earnings, i.e. the same allowance as for maternity leave during the first month, although the replacement ratio for maternity leave falls to 75% from the 31st day onwards. There will be no such reduction for adoption leave. Will the rules on maternity leave benefit be amended to cover 82% of the loss of earnings for the full 15 weeks? Or how do you see the further developments in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u37	Minister, like my colleague, I would like to take stock with you of the implementation of this legislation that we passed last year to improve the various thematic leave, such as adoption leave or reception leave. At the end of the legislature, it would appear that the lack of a regulatory framework is a problem. Thus, with regard to the extension of adoption leave for employees or self-employed persons, claims for compensation can only be taken into account in accordance with the previous regulations, i.e. no more than four to six weeks, depending on the age of the child - twice in the case of adoption of a child with a disability. With regard to foster parental leave, no compensation is possible. Minister, what is the status of this issue? When and how will the situation be resolved? What initiatives are you planning to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u38	Mrs Jiroflée, Mr Delizée, this is a parliamentary initiative, in particular the legislative proposal No. 2240 the extension of adoption leave and the introduction of foster care leave. In view of the regulatory gaps, Amendments Nos. 1 to 6 shall be added to the drafts drawn up by the political groups. Some of the missing provisions in the proposed law required additional regulatory intervention. The majority of the Chamber approved an additional chapter of amendments on 22 November 2018. The ratio legis of the reform is that the arrival of a child in a family is a very time-intensive period, with the attention of both parents being able to go fully to the child, without losing income. If an employer or selfemployed person currently receives a child in the family for long-term foster care, that person is entitled to six weeks' leave, with a benefit paid by the sickness fund. Those six weeks for both systems will be taken every two years by one week from 2019. The distinction between the granting of weeks for a child under or over three years of age is therefore deleted. The only condition is that the adopted child is under 18 years of age and therefore underage. For both partners we come from twelve weeks in 2017 and go to thirteen weeks from 2019 and fourteen weeks from 2021. In 2027 an adoption and foster leave would therefore consist of 17 weeks. The total part above the 12-week period for both adoptive parents can still be divided among themselves. In this way, the period of leave is aligned with what now exists for pregnant and pregnant women. The compensation consists of 82% of the loss of earnings for employees. Of these, employers pay for the first three days. Self-employed persons receive a flat-rate payment per week for adoption leave. It was the explicit wish of the legislator that the amount of 82 % replacement rate should not be reduced for employees after the fourth week of leave is exceeded. A self-employed person will continue to receive a flat-rate payment that week. However, it should be stressed that, unlike the first month of maternity rest, the maximum amount of the adoption or foster parent is capped up to the ZIV ceiling from the first day of reimbursement. The conditions for obtaining that allowance are, in turn, identical to maternity insurance. When this new form of leave reaches its cruising speed, in 2027, we will have to ask ourselves whether the compensation system and the replacement rate still meet the needs of adoptive parents and foster parents. At the end of this exercise, we will have to make clear choices. Is the separate leave arrangements still in place? Will it be possible to simplify possibilities such as thematic leave, birth leave, career interruption, time credit...? Are the differences in terms of compulsory insurance between the self-employed and the employees still in our time? You know my wish to draw up statutes from which identical rights would derive or, at least, converging rights. Of course, this will not happen overnight. INAMI has been responsible for developing the modalities and instructions for mutualities, which in turn will be responsible for payment. The Communities have been consulted to take account of the finesse of each level of power, so that the regulation incorporates local reality. The provisions are ready and will be published in the Belgian Monitor in the coming weeks so that the situation is fully regulated from 2019 onwards. And it will therefore come into effect retroactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u39	Madam Minister, I understand that you say that we will have to wait 2027, but that seems to me to be a long period of time, and I think we should think about this earlier. I do not dispute that there may be a need for changes. I can only note that you do not intend to do anything at the moment, but I do understand, of course, that it is not possible at all at the moment. That is why I have stressed that my question dates back to September. I believe that there is a mandate for a future government to look at all these thematic engagements and at least treat them as fairly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u40	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the explanations she has given us. Like my colleague, I was more in demand for information on the current situation, which is repeated at the end of her reply. I note that, in the coming weeks, the royal decrees would be published in the Monitor with retroactive effect. So I guess it'll be before the 26th of May. This should address a number of practical questions and modalities that are currently unanswered, in any case in relation to the will of the legislator in the vote. You're talking about an evaluation in 2027. We'll see what's going to happen in the next legislature. We'll see who will be there in 2027 to launch the evaluation. It is certain that this dossier will require an evaluation of the modalities and objectives...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u41	We can do an evaluation but this system will be in cruising speed in 2027. In order to be able to compare the different forms of thematic leave, account will have to be taken of the situation which will exist in 2020-2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u42	I take note of the Minister's response and reply to my concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, this famous law on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion has been discussed for a long time and much. She was sausageed, cut into small pieces and everything we want! It took time and the need for first readings, second readings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u44	It's not my fault!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u45	It's not a reproach, minister, it's a fact. I'm just making a brief history that you may also be going to do in a few moments. This law contained different elements, including this new special status which was re-discussed in the context of the Volunteer Act and on which, from the beginning, we do not share the same view, to be honest. For us, this status is negative and a source of unfair competition. When I say "we", there are obviously the political options taken by parliamentarians but also the economic world, the representatives of SMEs, the social partners and the High Council of Volunteers who have spoken on the subject. I am not going to repeat this debate. I'm quoting him for memory. These are the famous 6 000 euros a year or 500 euros a month without taxation, without social contributions, without protection and others. At the end of the legislature, it would be interesting to see if you have any data on the implementation of this new provision. I confess that I no longer remember its date of entry into force. This part was voted on July 18, 2018, if I am not mistaken. I no longer remember whether the effective date was September 1 or another date. Minister, how many people have used this new system put in place by your government? There are three sectors: the voluntary sector, the economy of platforms and occasional citizen-to-citizen services. Could you specify the figures for each of these three categories for the few months of 2018 and 2019 that have passed and for which you would possibly have statistics? Can you give us the breakdown by Region? It would also be interesting to know what the status of beneficiaries was. Who are the people who participate in this associative, collaborative or citizen-to-citizen work? Finally, what is the average monthly income of persons working under this status in the three categories I have indicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u46	Mr Delizée, I only have data on activities to be reported to the ONSS and, therefore, in particular, on voluntary work and occasional services from citizen to citizen. From the inception of the new regime until March 3, 2019, there were a total of 10,174 casual DIY workers, of whom 9,846 were in voluntary work and 355 were in the context of occasional citizen-to-citizen services. The statistics currently available relate only to the data from the declaration itself. I am not in a position to provide you with the breakdown by Region. In order to do so, the data contained in the declaration will need to be enriched with data from, inter alia, the National Register. This programming is only expected by the time the law is evaluated after one year. Most persons engaged in complementary work, namely 7,532 persons, have the status of employee or civil servant and meet the requirement of 80 per cent employment at time T-3; 1,971 persons are pensioners and 671 are self-employed. For voluntary work, a total amount of EUR 17.6 million has been declared, which is an average of EUR 1 784 per person who carries out a supplementary activity. For occasional citizen-to-citizen services, the amount is EUR 202 000 and the average is EUR 569. I'll give you the document with the numbers. It's a first evaluation. The trend is that this is not an important activity among the self-employed but in the voluntary sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u47	Minister, I understand that we have only a few months back. Thank you for the clarifications that draw trends. On the other hand, you said that the statistics were stopped as of March 3, 2019. However, I do not remember the date of entry into force. From when is it? Is it September 1st, October 1st?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u48	I have to check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u49	I admit I didn't ask in my questions, but then I thought about it. We voted in July. Was it the first month that followed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u50	I know I did a press conference. I think it was October 1st.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u51	October 1st. It's been three months in 2018 and two months in 2019. This gives early trends. My question is purely informative at this stage. It would take at least one full year to see the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u52	We started at the beginning of the football season.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u53	But we play football all the time! It's complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u54	The new season starts in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u55	The Belgian championship already starts in August!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u56	But I'm not talking about the championship; I'm talking about the youth competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1060x.u57	I don't know. Anyway. I'll read the numbers again. As I have just said, this is an informative question. This will allow us to see where we have fewer statistics. Thank you for the data. If you can't give me the answer now, can you give it to me by text or any other means? I would like to receive information from the start date.
