ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u1	Minister, the 2010 legislative amendment greatly extended the powers of the Gaming Commission. This morning, we learned that the Gaming Commission is responsible not only for the protection of players, but also for the management of licences for casinos, slot machines halls, cafes, placers and repairers of gaming machines, and staff in gaming facilities in the real world; but also for online gambling, betting, online as well as offline gambling and media games. Moreover, the Gaming Commission also acts against illegal gambling, both online and offline. This extensive task also implies a relevant increase in the number of employees. Apparently, that's where the shoe pinches. This enlargement has been awaiting us for years. The Gaming Commission has long been a requesting party for additional staff for the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission, precisely with a view to implementing the additional powers. Only in mid-December 2018 did a new staff member's first appointment take place in that context. For the rest, the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission saw its staff drop in recent years. As mentioned above, there has been movement since the end of 2018 in recruitments for the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission. However, for new recruitments, the Gaming Commission is entirely dependent on the Selection Service of the FPS Justice and Partner Selor, without having control over the selection procedures. However, the issue of gambling is very specific and the Gaming Commission therefore needs very functional profiles. A certain member of staff had passed a selection procedure through Selor at the end of 2018, but was not eligible for inclusion on a reserve list from which the Gaming Commission could draw due consideration due to conditions set by the FPS Justice. In that context, Minister, I have the following questions for you. Why can a successful applicant with the necessary expertise not be recruited by the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission? Would it not be more desirable for the Gaming Commission itself to have more say in the selection procedures? What is the state of play with regard to the recruitment of more staff to give the Gaming Commission additional leverage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u2	Mrs Smeyers, the candidate concerned had succeeded in the general screening but was not allowed to pass on to the second part of the post, namely the specific screening. Taking into account the number of jobs, in particular three, being two jobs for the central services and one job for the Game Commission, only the first 25 graduates were admitted to the next test. Seven of the final 13 candidates were successful. The person concerned was not ranked on the first 25. One cannot change the selection rules and route because one notes that a contract staff member is not among the first 25 graduates. Eventually, seven candidates passed three vacant seats. The Gaming Commission has control over the selection procedures for specific profiles that are only sought from it. In this respect, she sits together with the P&O staff of the FPS Justice Department and possibly with Selor to examine the function-specific competences that need to be tested and the tests that need to be linked to them. For the more generic profiles, the Gaming Commission joins the generic publications of the FOD. By being an active member of the selection committee, the Gaming Commission will have more say in recruiting its employees. On 26 February 2019, the status of the recruitments for the Game Commission was as follows. As of 1 March, an administrative expert P&O will be employed to organise more selections according to Selor's methodology and in collaboration with the FPS Justice Department. The functions of level C............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Of the five vacant places, three have now been filled in, a fourth have been completed from 1 April and one has to be re-launched. The selection for the functions of administrative expert is ongoing. Two graduates will soon be required to take up their duties. For two other vacant relationships interviews are planned for this week and next week. A new selection should be launched for the Executive Director's secretariat. This test is scheduled for 1 March. For the positions within level A, two attachés will be employed on 1 March and a date will have to be agreed with the attaché lawyer. For the other functions A1 attaché web management, attaché management networks and external publications and attaché accounting promotion the selection will be launched this week. Functions A2, A3 and A4 will be opened on 15 March through promotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're the master of fast reading. I have not been able to write down so quickly, so perhaps you can give me your answer on paper. I understand that from 1 March there will be a change in the method of recruitment, namely that there will be more control for the Gaming Commission. Or did I want to hear that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u4	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u5	Then thank you for your answer. You replied very specifically, so I would be pleased if I could get that specification on paper.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the law on transgender is now – and I am particularly proud of it – firmly rooted in morals. Self-determination now prevails. However, several months ago, there were some difficulties in the implementation of this law. In several provinces, the checks that could be carried out on these individuals had been found to be somewhat abusive. At the time, I intervened with you to denounce systematic checks and sometimes intrusive issues on the part of some magistrates. You then became aware of this problem and called some magistrates to order at a College of Attorneys General. Minister, can you take stock of the situation? To your knowledge, have new cases of judges who are too "zealous" been observed? Are you in contact with associations defending transgender people? If so, what is their feedback on the current situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u7	Mr. Chair, Mr.Flahaux, following my intervention, the College of Attorneys General gave its opinion on this issue at its meeting on March 29, 2018. The College agreed that the Public Prosecutor's Office must carry out the tasks entrusted to it by law in the utmost discretion, that the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office must be prepared discreetly, without worrying the person, and that further investigation must take place only in the event of fraud. Since that position, I have no longer been informed of situations that put the people concerned in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u8	Minister, your answer is short and brief and is the one I expected. I am therefore extremely happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u9	Minister, I would like to ask you about the measures taken to assist the colonial Métis in their various research on civil status, birth certificate, marriage certificate, recovery of Belgian nationality, etc. The resolution adopted by all democratic parties last March made several requests to the Government, including necessary measures to assist the colonial Métis in solving their problems related to birth and marriage certificates, among others. Minister, can you outline the measures that have been taken since the adoption of the resolution in March 2018? Can you confirm that a one-stop shop will be set up soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u10	Mr Corthouts, I refer to the reply given to you on this subject by Foreign Minister Reynders in the Committee on External Relations on 15 January 2019. Several meetings were held between the administrations and the strategic units concerned, but also with representatives of the Belgian Métis Association to discuss how to implement this resolution on a point-by-point basis. According to information received at the working group meetings, about 10 cases would be affected by civil status issues. The Belgian Métis Association has already indicated a list of grievances in this regard. Similarly, those concerned who encounter difficulties with their application for Belgian nationality are invited to submit their application individually, supported by a relevant and complete file, to a point of contact established within the SPF Justice which will examine it, within the limits of the competence of my department. With regard to the problems relating to civil status documents, which are to be presented, inter alia, in the files of nationality, my services recalled that the legislation (in particular articles 46 and 70 of the Civil Code) currently provides for the possibility of replacing missing acts with a judgement or an act of notoriety. I have also referred the matter to the College of Attorneys-General concerning the possible difficulties encountered by the Métis people from the Belgian colonization of which the public prosecutor's offices would be aware in the context of the individual proceedings under way. My advisors are in contact with the Métis Association of Belgium to meet with her shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u11	Minister, I take note of the answers you have given us. I also note that yesterday in the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service, the Prime Minister declared that he would be at the disposal of Parliament to deliver a solemn declaration. I hope that it can be achieved before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u12	Mr President, Minister, this question about last week's polemic may be a little late. President Trump suddenly stated that he felt it was the responsibility of the European countries to bring back the imprisoned Syrian fighters and bring them to justice. There followed a discussion on where to do this and who to take responsibility for it. I'm not going to read my introduction any further. I'll come straight to my two questions. Firstly, to what extent do you believe that a European solution is appropriate for the return of Syrian fighters and their trial? Or should an international solution be envisaged within the UN? What's your point of view? Secondly, what about the children of Belgian Syrian fighters in those camps? There are even some orphans. Do you have certain data and figures on this? How do you think we should deal with these children?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u13	Mr President, Mr Terwingen, the government has clearly indicated that it prefers an international solution for Belgian foreign fighters held in Syria. Various options have been put forward, including by academics. These include the creation of ad hoc international jurisdiction or prosecution and trial by national jurisdictions in the region. None of the options are simple. There are important geopolitical and legal obstacles. It is therefore essential to discuss this with our international partners. Contacts are being made in this area. Persecution at European Union level seems to be ruled out for legal reasons, but consultation of our European partners is of course essential. The aim of the solution must be to ensure safety and to prevent these people from disappearing into nature. The services and the government are closely monitoring the situation, including the announcement of the withdrawal of US troops and the possible impact on the surveillance of Belgian and European foreign fighters. With regard to the children, the position of the government remains clear. There is no right to return, but the government has nevertheless undertaken to take measures to enable the return of all Belgian children under 10 years of age. For children over 10 years of age, the situation is considered on a case-by-case basis. There are about 30 children, of whom only two are older than ten. Contacts are mainly the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u14	Mr. Secretary, I'm not going to replicate anymore. Thanks for the information and the take-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u15	Mr Minister, in the Royal Decree laying down the administrative and financial provisions governing the career of several staff of the FPS Justice, which are part of the monitoring, engineering and logistics system, Article 9 states: "The penitentiary surveillance assistant who has at least eight years of degree can obtain the 20EP betting scale within the limits of 35% of the totality of the relations provided for in the personnel plan in the degree of penitentiary surveillance assistant shiftwork. The penitentiary technical assistant who has at least eight years of degree may obtain the 20EP betting scale within the limits of 35% of the totality of the relations provided for in the staff plan in the degree of penitentiary technical assistant shiftwork." In practice, however, it appears that the baremic increase for the category penitentiary surveillance assistant shift lift and especially for the category penitentiary technical assistant shift lift is very little awarded. However, action has been taken on this in the past, including by means of strikes. It would have been agreed that the 20EP wager scale would be automatically awarded if the conditions were met, within the limits of 35%. According to my information, 20 people in the pay scale 20EP have recently retired. It was only after the staff had taken action that 16 persons were appointed. According to the existing agreements, this should be 20 to reach the target of 35%. Mr Minister, can you confirm, first of all, that there was an agreement to supplement the promotions to 35%? If so, why didn't that happen? If not, on what basis will promotion be decided? Secondly, there are a number of 11-year-olds who, according to the administration, would not meet the conditions for an increase to 20EP. What are the conditions of the administration? On what basis were they captured? Thirdly, can you explain why the promotion was carried out for the category PBA-P but only very limited for the category PTA-P? Fourthly, do you have any figures on promotions to pay scale 20EP?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u16	Mr Van Hecke, with the implementation of Protocol 464 of 22 February 2018, which includes the barmaid promotions, the promotion is carried out every six months. In May last year, barmaid promotions to betting scale 20EP were carried out for 33 penitentiary security assistant ploughlifts with effect from 1 June 2018. In September 2018, additional 58 penitentiary security assistants plowlifts and 6 penitentiary technical assistants plowlifts were promoted to the 20EP betting scale with retroactive effect until 1 June 2018. The December analysis has been slightly delayed, but it is currently being carried out by the administration. The promotions will have effect from 1 December 2018. 91 penitentiary security assistant shiftlifts and six penitentiary technical assistant shiftlifts were promoted to the 20EP betting scale during the year 2018. There are likely to be a few more with retroactive effect from 1 December 2018. It is our clear intention to follow up on this barren promotion for shiftworkers twice a year, according to the agreements made contained in Protocol 464 and thus in accordance with the provisions contained in the Article 9 of the Royal Decree of 12 November 2009 cited by you. The administration shall implement the promotions on the basis of the notified Article 9. It shall ensure that 35% of the totality of the relations in the staff plan in the degree of penitentiary surveillance assistant shift and in the degree of penitentiary technical assistant shift to the 20EP betting scale is promoted. The ranking shall be based on seniority. The technical shiftlifts form a smaller shift among the staff of DG EPI, approximately 104 full-time equivalents. This is why the number of promotions is much lower than the level of monitoring of shiftlifts, which is about 616 full-time equivalents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your answer with the many figures. I'll read it quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u18	Minister, a European regulation was published on 19 December 2015, which entered into force on 6 January 2016 on deactivated firearms. That regulation ensures that arms interventions are carried out in a uniform manner in Europe. It involves operations such as cutting the barrel, welding chargers, grinding rooms and cutting locks. That is a good thing, because there are guarantees across borders. However, there are reports that there are also problems in this area. Persons who have decommissioned weapons shall not be able to resell or transfer them in accordance with the Belgian standard, with a certificate from the firearms trial bank. To transfer them, the weapon must be disabled in accordance with EU standards, with an EU attestation. Thus, owners have not been harmed in their patrimony, for they have already paid the test bench in the past to do those interventions, so that the weapon was freely available. However, there are still some weapons that were decommissioned according to the old procedure, with associated costs, but which were not resold before 6 January 2016. Those weapons have lost their value, while the owners have just followed the law. If the test bench which would simply continue to deal with the European standards, there would be no problem, but apparently the test bench does not wish to do so. From proefbank stelt: "A neutralized weapon cannot be neutralized again." Surely it cannot be the intention of duty-conscious citizens, who follow the law, to be punished? Is it true that there is still no transitional arrangement for this? Do you think the test bench is heading in the right direction? What is your message to the gun owners who are the victims of that today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u19	Mr Degroote, the neutralisation of firearms is governed by a European Implementing Regulation of 15 December 2015 and by an amended Royal Decree of 20 September 1991. On the basis of those rules, all neutralisations in Belgium carried out on or after 8 April 2016 in a Member State shall be recognised in accordance with the stricter technical requirements set out in the Annex to the said Implementing Regulation. Arms owners who had their weapons neutralized before 8 April 2016 by proving with a certificate the Belgian firearms trial bank may continue to possess them as freely available weapons. However, if they wish to transfer these weapons or transfer them to another Member State, they must comply with the new European standards. The test bench informs me that it is examining on a case-by-case basis whether the weapon can be neutralized a second time according to those standards. If this proves technically impossible, the original owner may retain the weapon for himself or transfer it to a person holding a valid licence or recognition for the firearm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u20	Thank you for your reply, Minister. The bottom line is that the test bench is simply investigating whether a solution would be technically possible. People tell me that they are being sent from the locker to the wall, they are not being offered a solution even if it is technically possible. I don't know if the test bench always provides the right information. I believe that there is a need for some vigilance in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u21	Minister, with regard to the fusion of the peace dishes in Etterbeek, Oudergem and Sint-Pieters-Woluwe, what timing do you propose and what actions are being taken at the moment? At present, there are many movements of staff within the Brussels peace courts. What specific causes are associated with this? To what end do these movements take place? At the peace court of Oudergem, which is reported to have a low workload, there is at present both a deputy chief griffin and an acting chief griffin. Do you consider that necessary and, if so, what useful benefit do you see from this? How many delegates do the peace courts of the Brussels district currently have? Within the Brussels peace courts, we are currently using the technique of short contracts of three to six months followed by a contract of indefinite duration. It should be possible, instead of hiring additional staff, to shift rather internal staff from peace dishes with a good staff balance to those with a less good staff balance, where there is a shortage. This could be based on the workload measurement. What is the state of play with regard to the measurement of the workload of the peace courts in general? Finally, a provisional management committee is sometimes used. What is the legal value of that? How long can we use the term 'preliminary', who is part of this and what exactly are their tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u22	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the cantons of Etterbeek, Oudergem and Sint-Pieters-Woluwe continue to exist as legal entities and retain their territorial competence in a context of urban cantons. However, in order to improve staffing, a merger of different Registrys in six pools is being examined in consultation with the Presidents of the two Courts of First Instance. Unlike the other arrondissements, the legislator has opted not to appoint a figure of president of the police courts and peace courts in the arrondissement of Brussels, nor to appoint an overarching chief clerk responsible for the district. Within the contours of the various balances established with the reform of the judicial district of Brussels, both Presidents of the courts of first instance shall, by consensus, exercise jurisdiction in respect of the peace courts in the Brussels Region. The Constitutional Court confirmed this way of organising the peace courts in Brussels in its judgment in 97/2018 of 25 June 2015. This specific organisation of the administration of the peace courts has led to the development of an informal upper structure or a provisional management committee for the Brussels peace courts. In doing so, the competent presidents will be assisted by principal directors to deal with various operational aspects, including the implementation of the Single Registrys in the Brussels Arrondissement or, for example, the roll-out of the standardised models of the MACH application in Brussels. It is from this approach that staff decisions are also taken to cover absences or to ensure the occupation of the various Registrys. In the peace court in Oudergem, there is currently no appointment of a debt holder-chief. The last published vacancy did not yield any candidates. Therefore, from other cantons, a head griffin is sent part-time to perform the tasks of chief griffin in Oudergem. As regards the question of the number of Registrars, 46 members of staff have currently been appointed as Registrars in the judicial district of Brussels. The law provides for a single justice of peace per canton. I have committed myself to this in the reform of the cantons. For the other courts and the judicial staff, I am in favour of replacing the legal frameworks with an objective allocation model for the allocation of resources for the purpose of the agreed objectives and workload. The Colleges have been asked to make a proposal for such a model. To date, the Colleges have not proposed a definitive model.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u24	Mr President, Minister, last December in New York, the United Nations General Secretariat released the preliminary conclusions of Tanzanian Judge Othman, who was responsible for bringing to light the unsolved plane crash that cost the life of UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld and fifteen others on 18 September 1961. For Belgium, it was the Chairman of the R Committee, Mr Guy Rapaille, currently retired, who had been appointed by you and the Minister of Defence as the senior official responsible for carrying out the necessary research in the Belgian archives. He was assisted by Professor Kris Quanten. A first report was forwarded by Mr.Rapaille to Judge Othman on 25 September 2018, indicating that his research could not have been exhaustive within the allotted time. The name of the Belgian pilot Jan Van Risseghem was mentioned immediately after the crash. According to some sources, he shot down the UN Secretary-General's plane. So far, our country has informed Judge Othman that according to a 1961 State Security Report Mr. Van Risseghem was in Belgium during this crash. Bruno Struys, a journalist of the newspaper De Morgen, however, has just had access to the archives of the State Security, revealing different elements than those revealed by Mr Rapaille. In an article published by the journalist, he claims to have found Sûreté working notes written immediately after the plane crash, informing that Jan Van Risseghem had left for Katanga before the accident. The report transmitted by the Belgian authorities in 1961, however, said the opposite. Minister, do you confirm the existence of State Security documents saying that Jan Van Risseghem had gone to Katanga before the accident? Did you – you or Mr. Rapaille – transfer this important new information to Judge Othman and when? Why did the State Security not inform its guardianship in 1961 of the presence of Mr. Van Risseghem in Katanga during the aircraft accident and did she on the contrary state that he was in Belgium? Mr Rapaille having retired, who will be responsible for responding to any additional requests that may be made to Belgium in the context of the United Nations survey? Is a replacement already designated? If not, when will you designate him?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u25	Mr President, Mrs Waterschoot, I would like to recall that an independent mechanism has been set up by the United Nations under the leadership of Judge Othman. It seems to me that we have to let him do his job. I would also recall that, on 25 September 2018, Mr Rapaille forwarded a first report to Mr Othman, while indicating that the research could not be exhaustive due to the deadlines imposed. In response to this report, the judge thanked Belgium for its excellent cooperation. He described the interim report as a "excavated report, which indicates the substantial work of the authors". The R Committee, which is responsible for cooperating on behalf of Belgium with Judge Othman, has the authority and independence to obtain the information deemed useful from the State Security Service. There is therefore every reason to be reassured as to the seriousness and transparency of the cooperation with the judge. The Sûreté itself cooperates fully with the Chairman of Committee R. There are notes on Jan Van Risseghem's travel, which have obviously been communicated by the Sûreté to Committee R. In view of the ongoing investigation, it seems to me preferable to leave the analysis and interpretation of these documents to the Chairman of the Committee and to Judge Othman. The former acts independently in his collaboration with the latter. However, I am not in a position to clarify what information has been provided in this context. For the time being, there is no confirmation or invalidation that the State Security had not informed its guardianship in 1961. I am not, a fortiori, able to explain why, if that were the case, she would have decided not to transmit this information. A note from the then Assistant Administrator to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, dated October 12, 1962, seems to indicate that there has been information provided. As was the case last year – which led to the appointment of Mr Rapaille – the competent ministers will shortly send a letter to Committee R inviting him to appoint a successor to continue this collaboration with Mr Othman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. I fully agree with your observation that Mr. Othman, the R Committee and the State Security should be allowed to do their work. My question was not at all about calling this into question. I am reassured that you are soon appointing a successor. You mentioned the existence of notes on Mr. Van Risseghem. It seems to me that if they have not been passed on to Judge Othman, they should be. In short, I encourage you to continue along this path, because the information disclosed by De Morgen raises questions. In addition, some believe that the State Security could have made an alibi for Mr. Van Risseghem. That is why it would be good for everyone to have clarity in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u27	Mr Minister, the Law of 14 October 2018 amending the Code of Registration, Mortgage and Registry Rights in order to reform the Registry Rights introduces a new system of role rights from 1 February 2019. Some people see that as a gift to the bailiffs. For example, it is stated in De Juristenkrant of 16 January 2019 that the bailiffs will no longer have to advance the role rights. The author also sees a gift in the collection of the role rights due, which could possibly amount to EUR 33.5 million per financial year. The party ordered to pay the role rights will therefore be visited by a bailiff if he does not wish to pay the amount. The bailiffs themselves see no advantage in this. For example, court bailiff Francis Snoeck commented in De Juristenkrant on 30 January 2019: "The additional collection procedure is absolutely not a gift. It is disturbing that the bailiffs are first portrayed as the bearable devil of the debt industry, and then, with a little thought-out measure, the costs to the debtor are doubled. Long after the creditor had the judgment enforced, the recipient of the non-tax revenue also comes knocking on the door. Explain that as a bailiff to the citizen." Apart from that discussion, there is also a doubt as to whether the new system for collection is sufficiently in place. For example, there would certainly be huge problems with the collection in the first few months and huge sums of money would be lost in the financial year 2019. Although they remain due, they cannot yet be collected. Minister, what is your response to the problems relating to the collection of roll-over rights? How is it that the computer systems of the various actors in such a collection procedure are not yet aligned? By when will that be fixed? In the absence of an IT system, how are role rights currently collected? Is there no short-term loss of income here, which is then to be collected afterwards? By allowing the role rights to be paid only at the end, there is an increase in the chance that they will not be collected anymore and that they will therefore receive less income. How was this taken into account when the new system was introduced? Do you think it is normal that the bailiff should come by twice, once for the sums due by the court and then a second time for the court fees? Do you understand that in this way the debtor is being paid more debts and that this can suddenly multiply a small unpaid invoice? What will you do to change the procedure and control the debt?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u28	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, with your introduction, you say that the field of work is not yet familiar with the concrete practice resulting from the new law and still does not properly assess the renewal. The amendment of the law is not a gift, except to the seeker who is right and forced to get his right through court. It is a step in the implementation of the "Court of the future" vision, which was widely supported and endorsed in its presentation. The aim is to reduce the threshold for access to justice. In the past, a party who wanted to be right had to advance the role rights, because it started a procedure, even if it was 100% right. Afterwards, it had to recover the amount paid from the losing counterparty. The new law will charge the loser with the role rights. That is much more just and does not stop people from getting justice for financial reasons. The idea that the collection will be done through the bailiff and that it will come twice is wrong. The collection is done by the FPS Finance, which, in addition to sending a payment invitation, also has the possibility to use compensation mechanisms and other coercive procedures in case of non-payment. In exceptional cases where there is a persistent refusal to pay, a court bailiff may be called in at the execution stage. This was no different in the situation before 1 February, if the losing party refused to repay the prepaid roll rights and costs. The adaptation to the computer systems of the Justice Department has already been carried out. The exchange of information between Justice and Finance is at a test phase. Since the new way of working is only used for procedures started after 1 February, there are still few rulings to which the new regime applies. So there is no loss of income now either. At best, the first payment invitations will be sent a little later. There are, as I said, very few in the first few months. In two months' time, the monitoring mechanism for the payment of appeals will also be digitised. But there are few concrete cases to be seen in the first few months. A high rate of payment may be expected for the collection of roles in civil matters at the end of the procedure. In the case of non-payment, fines are provided for and Finance will use the further recovery procedure and compensation. Since no advance payment is made in criminal matters, there is no effect on the rate of collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Whether the procedure is more equitable under the current system will show the practice. I question that. We'll have to evaluate that soon. Maybe something isn't always more just, because there's less a brake on litigation. It is not necessarily more just, because the payment comes only at the end of the journey. I am also curious about the way in which they will be collected. You refer to criminal proceedings, because there is evidence that many fines are currently not being collected. Will the same also not happen with the court fees quoted? Either way, we'll evaluate that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u30	Mr President, Minister, the computerisation of justice is a long-term work which must always be considered in the future. Anyone who makes computer choices today must ensure that they are supported in good faith tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and dare to adapt the choices made if necessary, so that they remain up-to-date with the state of computer science. As you know, the N-VA was a cool lover of the introduction of the eBox system. We believe that there were better variants in the market, but we supported you because you guaranteed that the eBox would produce results quickly. However, if we look at the speed with which the eBox has been rolled out in recent years, I cannot get the impression that a better choice with more future opportunities was possible. We need choices with future prospects. It is therefore rather strange that you, as a minister, are pulling the map of the MACH application, a program on which there is little satisfaction among users within Justice. I would like to quote from a few e-mails I was allowed to receive from clerks about that system: "Don't open my mouth about MACH. We've been saying for years that this system is hopelessly outdated. Everyone's complaining about the system, but what are they doing in response to that criticism? Roll out quickly everywhere." Another user emailed me the following: "Apparently at a Council of Ministers in December 2018 the budget for the roll-out of MACH court first instance civil courts would have been approved. I hope that's not true. I'm complaining to those poor clerks. My experience with MACH is negative. It is completely obsolete and a disaster to work with." Those are two examples of reports about that system that I was allowed to receive. Meanwhile, a well-functioning database called VAJA is extinguished, because it would not be able to fulfil its role as a shipping system. The reason for this is, among other things, that VAJA does not allow you to sign digitally. Alternatively, you choose to roll out MACH and develop a module that should allow digital signing within MACH. However, anyone who puts VAJA next to MACH sees a world of difference and can hardly find other than that VAJA is more modern and user-friendly. In addition, every computer technician who's along with his time will tell you that MACH is being developed into an outdated technology that makes it difficult for the program to be maintained by companies other than the company that developed the program. MACH is currently supported by Oracle Forms, version 11. That version has not been supported by Oracle since the end of last year, making the environment vulnerable to bugs and security leaks. As early as September 2014, in the period in which you took up your current ministerial office, Deloitte carried out an audit on MACH, in which a little beautiful picture of MACH was sketched. The study clearly states that a cost-benefit analysis should be carried out in order to look for alternatives to Oracle Webforms, as this technology poses risks in the long term. That was established five years ago, an eternity in computer science. Furthermore, it is stated that MACH can be transferred to another firm, but at a cost and above all that transferability will be difficult because the developer sins against the good practices that facilitate transferability. A roadmap should be drawn up. MACH also ensures a uniform functioning between the different courts. To meet this, MACH works extra complex, which again makes portability difficult. The architecture and technology structure were validated by the Management Committee, but not applied within the FOD. MACH didn't know any real Service Oriented Architecture back then. It is clear that choices must be made. The question is therefore what role MACH will play in this. We must take account of technology, cost and users when making these choices. It is therefore a risk to build on a technology that is outdated and to continue working with a firm in a unique position of power. In addition, I know that the users are not satisfied with this application. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What alternatives are there within the development of MACH for the outdated and vulnerable Oracle Forms? When will these be realized? Who will pay for the switch-over of technology which the developer has maintained for far too long? Has the cost-benefit study on the alternatives been developed in the meantime? If yes, what are the results? If not, why not? Has a roadmap been drawn up to facilitate the portability of MACH to another firm? If not, why not? How did you remove the obstacles? Are the architecture and technology structure validated by the Management Committee now applied within the FPS? Does MACH now have a full Service Oriented Architecture? When was the last update of the user documentation? Deloitte stated in 2014 that it was already four years ago. What specific part was updated at that time? How can users provide input for an improved operation of MACH? How can they provide input on what else needs to be done? Do consultations take place with effective users? What is the state of play regarding the digital signature of judgments and judgments regarding MACH? Apart from the technological advantages that MACH attaches to VAJA, will a time gain be achieved effectively by the clerks? If so, which one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u31	It is difficult to give a concrete answer because, in my view, the assumptions from which your question is based are not correct. It is true that the digitisation of justice is a long-term work. We have put in place an enormous acceleration in this legislature, which is now delivering results day after day. The digitisation process is complex because of the specificity of the judicial system and the disappointments of the past, but also because, together with digitisation, legislation needs to be adapted. You have also experienced that this is not easy. The introduction into our Code of Conduct of the possibility of using videoconferencing in court proceedings is out of your hands, but following the ruling of the Constitutional Court there is still no legal framework allowing such installations to be used in that particular case. I invite you to adapt your proposal to the comments of the Constitutional Court and to submit it as an amendment when discussing the ICT bill, so that this step can be taken at least in the next legislative period. I have communicated little about the results of digitisation and announced as little as possible, because it seems to only provoke controversy and resistance. There is a lot of talk in the public arena but often with little knowledge of the field and of the concrete challenges. In the meantime, we are over the critical point and have now taken a head start on the neighbouring countries that are most similar to our justice system. You will know that the Netherlands has experienced a Phenix failure in the past year and now, to a large extent, has to take a new start. You're quoting the eBox. It has already sent hundreds of thousands of documents. This will soon become millions. Judgments and other documents signed electronically may also be transmitted via this network of electronic mailboxes. The first pilot site will start in the course of April. If the tests are successful, this will be rolled out relatively quickly across all courts. In doing so, we will be able to achieve the objective, to deliver this to the lawyer within five days of the verdict, by the end of 2019, as laid down in the law, because the trial is digitized. The courts where MACH has been rolled out come first, because this application is able to do so in an efficient way. I'm lucky we continued the eBox project. When discussing the eBox project in the government, I agreed to have this network replaced by an overarching network of electronic mailboxes that would offer the same functionalities and would be Judicial Code proof. To this day, I know that no tender or development has even been launched to start such a network. You quote users to create the assumption that MACH would be a bad, old-fashioned application. That is not the case. I can't respond to those anonymous testimonies for lack of information. However, I can tell you that in December 2017, the College of the Public Prosecutor asked for the whole of his organisation to be equipped with MACH. This has been the case since the first week of February 2019, with the exception of the public prosecutors, who are now additional requesting parties. The College of the seat has never officially asked such a question. Officially, it has always expressed its distrust or non-agreement. The vast majority of court presidents and magistrates have requested that the renewal step be taken to MACH. In the meantime, the entire criminal justice chain is now also equipped with the same application MACH. The conversion of the bourgeois chain is also making good progress. Between May and November 2019 the company courts will have switched over and the pilot site of the court of first instance will have started. There are still the labour law banks that have confirmed their desire to change, but still ask for a postponement. Although the College of the seat has not formally confirmed MACH's intention to roll out its entire organization, there is a strong demand on the ground. The fact that the chairman of the College of the seat certainly wanted his court to be allowed to operate as a pilot site is also a signal that much of what is said and written is the result of resistance to change.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u32	Mr President, Minister, we agree that the computerisation of justice is not so simple and that we have been waiting a long time for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, it is indeed waiting. You're quoting very biased sources.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u34	Mr President, Minister, I can only say that you are pointing out that a great deal of criticism comes from people who do not know what is going on on the ground. I can only inform you that the criticism I receive comes from the grounds. That may be a contradiction in what we say. However, we are looking forward to seeing what is going on. I can only say that I am receiving reports that the MACH system is not the modern technology with which those involved will have to work and that it is not user-friendly on the ground. Those are the signals I'm getting. You may be receiving other signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u35	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, you have a question. 28947 with Mrs Pas and Mrs Lambrecht. However, they are absent. You can ask your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u36	Mr President, I have indeed tabled this question together with Mrs Pas and Mrs Lambrecht. However, both are not present. It is also a problem that was raised in plenary last week. Mrs Becq then asked a question about the fact that it is still possible in Brussels to appoint a Dutch-speaking top-magistrate to the Brussels Court of Appeal. We know this court is bilingual. It seems very strange that something like this is still possible in 2019. I have also announced that we will table a legislative proposal in this area to guarantee the bilingualism of those top magistrates. The question was also about the fact that a literal reading of the legal text teaches that that vacancy should not be opened to a person with a French-language diploma. Article 43a (2) of the Act provides that this function is to be carried out by a Dutch language. I have the following questions to ask you, Minister. Why did you persist in opening the vacancy to French speakers, even when you were told that this was wrong and you still had the opportunity to correct it? How can a person be declared competent for a post if that person subsequently needs assistance from another counselor in order to perform that function properly? How do you rhyme with the assistance of a counsellor with an efficient staff deployment? Are these priority needs? Is there a procedure currently pending against the appointment of the first President to the Brussels Appeals Court before the Council of State? According to my information, yes. For the appointment of the first President of the Labour Court, a procedure has also been initiated at the Council of State. Here too, you have chosen to open the vacancy for people with a French-language diploma. What legal basis have you used for this and with what interpretation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u37	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, as explained in plenary last week, the principle of linguistic balance applies in Brussels to the succession of the first President of the Court of Appeal and the Attorney General of Brussels for periods of ten years. Since 1998 this principle has been incorporated into the Law on the use of languages in court cases of 1935 and in Article 259quater, § 6 of the Code of the Court of Justice, for example if the mandate is interrupted during the first or second five-year period. Even if Mr Maes had extended his term of office and left in 2022, he would still have to be replaced by a French-speaking first chairman for the remainder of his second term of office until the end of the ten years, in accordance with Article 259quater, Paragraph 6 of the Civil Code. Since the French-speaking first president, Maes, did not wish to extend his term of office, the linguistic balance was compromised. After all, the Dutch-speaking Attorney General wanted to extend his mandate for a second term. It was therefore decided to issue a French-language vacancy for the first president. The magistrate has been nominated as its first president for only one five-year term, as it will have to be followed by a Dutch-speaking first president. At that time, the Attorney General will be succeeded by a French-speaking magistrate. In this case, acting differently would mean breaking the linguistic balance in the Brussels appeal court. There is also a similar linguistic balance between the Federal Prosecutor and the Attorney General in Brussels. They will also be succeeded within five years, after a ten-year term of office, by a Dutch language and a French language respectively. My administration's advice on this issue was shared with the Prime Minister's cabinet and the Deputy Prime Minister's cabinet and Minister for the Interior. An explanatory note was delivered to the top of the government. The first President's vacancy at the Brussels Court of Appeal for a one-off period of five years has not been appealed to the Council of State. Since the position of First Chairman of the Labour Court is also mentioned in the same Article of the Court's Code, these rules should also be applied here. The nominations for the appointment of Chiefs of Staff shall be made entirely autonomous by the Supreme Court of Justice, in this case by the French-speaking appointment committee. There is indeed and unfortunately no legal bilingualism condition. In his presentation, the Supreme Court stressed the importance of the proposed magistrate learning the Dutch language better. She's committed to that, too. If the Committee on Justice so wishes, I am prepared to begin the debate on an adaptation of the legal language requirement for the first Presidents in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I had already announced that we would table a legislative proposal on the bilingual requirements. I find it really hallucinating that it requires a law when it comes to appointing a top magistrate. It should be clear that candidates for such a position in Brussels are bilingual. That seems to me to be the logic itself. Secondly, you know that we do not share your interpretation of the law. That information may have been shared, but the N-VA certainly never agreed to your vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u39	Mr Minister, we have just learned that the University of Liège was going to introduce a judicial procedure for the recovery of debts against the Belgian State, since the SPF Justice is facing payment delays amounting to almost one million euros towards the Forensic Institute of the University of Liège. One million euros represents years and years of unpaid invoices for autopsyes and various analyses carried out in the course of judicial investigations. According to the Financial Director of the University of Liège, the reminders of payment have been sent, all conciliation channels have been exploited and there is no dispute on the part of the SPF Justice that these assessments have been requested by the public prosecutor's offices and that they have been carried out. According to Professor Boxho, professor of forensic medicine at the University of Liège, in 2000 there were 42 forensic doctors in Belgium. By 2015, there would be only 21. The SPFJustice charges low rates: 76.73 euros gross for a raid on the premises in case of suspicious death and 469.36 euros for an autopsy with the writing of a report, work that lasts for hours. Minister, how do you explain these delays in the payment of the Justice FPS to the Forensic Institute of Liège? What reimbursements have been made by the FPS Justice in the course of judicial proceedings over the past ten years? This is likely to be a written question. Finally, how can we explain the rates set, which actually appear to be very low in relation to the work to be provided?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u40	Mr Goffin, according to your information, a statement of costs in the order of about one million euros would still be due to the laboratory of the University of Liège. This would be a multi-year expense statement. After verification of the payment application in which all statements of costs must be entered upon receipt by a judicial service, there is currently a total of 448,713.90 euros of unliquidated statements of costs prior to 1 January 2019. There is no overview of the cost statements that have not yet been recorded in the application of accounting by the judiciary. Those who are registered and in possession of the justice fees department are treated without delay. My services will contact the University of Liège to request additional information and to clear the amount due. The following amounts were paid to the University: in 2018: €1.8 million; in 2017: €2.038 million; in 2016: €1.4 million; in 2015: €2.2 million; in 2014: €2.3 million; in 2013: €1.9 million; in 2012: €1.3 million. No data prior to 2012 is available in the payment application. Here is a question of compensation which the State wishes to pay to an expert for the service which he has performed in the common interest in order to assist the judiciary in the search for the truth in criminal cases. It is therefore not a question of paying a salary. We are talking here about the basic rates, which can still be completed depending on when the service is to be performed. For example, the rate is higher when the benefits take place at night or during the weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1046x.u41	Minister, thank you. I will relay your response to the services of the University of Liège in relation to the requested additional information.
