ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u1	Madam Minister, yesterday the problem of Avastin and Lucentis or, rather, the problem with ranibizumab and bevacizumab was already touched in plenary by oral questions. We have received an answer from Minister De Croo, but I think that we should look into it a little more with you now. In the first instance, I will ask my questions again yesterday. The answer did not go deep enough. First, the ophthalmologists have been asking for a time when Avastin would be refunded at the dose necessary for the treatment of macular degeneration. This is already happening in several European countries. This is still not the case in Belgium. How come the ophthalmologist's question wasn't answered? Has that been thoroughly investigated? What are the criteria on which one has based not to repay Avastin, which has a very similar molecule to Lucentis? We have found clinical studies that state that the effects and side effects are similar. So I don't see any scientific reason why Avastin couldn't be paid back. Secondly, age blindness -- the word says it all -- is an old age disease. With the ageing population in mind, we must all be aware that the disease will occur even more frequently in the future. Therefore, resources will be needed more often for the treatment of macular degeneration. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we choose for the patients the best therapy that is most affordable at the same time. Thirdly, it is well known that statements have been made in Italy against Novartis and Roche for commercial bonding, for price fixing. We understand that complaints have been lodged with the BMA (Belgian Competition Authority) and that an investigation is under way, but that has been going on for quite some time now. I understand that the investigation is not your competence as Minister of Health, but why, in view of the ruling on commercial bonding, did your cabinet not proactively take an initiative to look at Avastin itself and arrange the reimbursement? Then I come to the issue of the EUR 500 million that was mentioned in the newspapers. I read in the newspaper a day later that you deny that amount of EUR 500 million. How much are we talking about? Our group has often raised the need for transparency under Rule 81. It is not easy, but it is not easy to exercise our control over the government as a Member of Parliament. How much is it all about? What amounts can you confirm? Finally, I have a question about the doctors. I've been in contact with a number of doctors and hospital pharmacists. In the course of Medicine, future doctors are very clearly reminded of the social costs of a therapy, of a treatment. The doctors themselves receive a profile, with the cost of treatment per patient, but they currently have no idea how much Lucentis costs to society. Does that make sense to you? How should the doctors, hospital pharmacists, all healthcare providers deal with that? After all, when a care provider makes a choice between molecule A and molecule B, he doesn't really know how much more or less that molecule A or molecule B costs to health insurance. However, that is really important when considering which therapy is to be started.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u2	I would like to draw the attention of speakers to the fact that the Rules of the Chamber provide for a time limit of two minutes. I ask you to respect it even if I am willing to apply some tolerance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to the Flemish daily newspapers Het Laatste Nieuws and De Morgen, our health care insurance, and therefore our social security, could have saved EUR 500 million in recent years as part of the reimbursement against age-related macular degeneration. Currently, there are two medicines from two different companies to treat this condition: on the one hand, Lucentis, which costs about 600 euros from the Novartis firm and, on the other hand, Avastin, which costs only 40 euros from the Roche company. It appears that the difference in effectiveness is not at this stage demonstrated by scientific studies. However, Roche insists that Avastin is not without danger. So that Avastin is currently only marketed as a cancer medicine and not as a cure for the blindness of the elderly. Roche even recommends buying the competing product. When we know that Roche is the owner of the company that developed the Lucentis and that Novartis is Roche's third shareholder, this obviously raises questions. In 2014, the two companies were also fined EUR 182 million for this process in Italy. After this judgment, the Consumer Association Test-Achats started, five years ago, a procedure still under way against the two companies at the Belgian Competition Authority. Madam Minister, there is no one day without any inquisitive information on the accessibility, price or reimbursement of medicines. What does the press tell us today? It tells us that in France, Italy and the Netherlands, governments have made sure that Avastin is also reimbursed, but that in Belgium, when this was planned, the measure has never entered into force with the result, 500 million euros more to be paid for our health care insurance, according to estimates. Het Laatste Nieuws further states that Novartis would even have entered into a secret agreement with you stating that in exchange for a lower price for Lucentis, your government would block the repayment of Avastin. Do you confirm this information, Madam Minister? What exactly is the effectiveness of these two drugs in the treatment of macular degeneration? What about the EUR 500 million for health care insurance? Why is Avastin still not reimbursed in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is true that yesterday's searches of biosimilar medicines show us once again that the pharmaceutical industry does not always take the rules of the law seriously in Belgium in order to satisfy its shareholders. I won't make it too long. Since 2004 it has been proven that Avastin and Lucentis are equivalent treatments for macular degeneration, but that Lucentis is more expensive than Avastin. In 2014, Novartis and Roche were sentenced to a fine of 182 million euros for conspiracy and market manipulation in Italy. They artificially maintain the market share of the most expensive medicine. Despite the scientific evidence that the two medicines are equivalent, Novartis and Roche ophthalmologists feared the use of Avastin. I come to my questions. Firstly, there is a royal decision that would have been on your desk in 2015. That provided for the reimbursement of Avastin for age blindness. This royal decree was apparently never confirmed. What arguments did you use for that? Secondly, the official price of Avastin is about 40 euros per injection and that of Lucentis 686 euros. In this way, some EUR 500 million would have been lost in social security, directly for the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry. On Monday, you stated in the press and on Twitter that you have entered into a secret agreement. We would like to know when you have concluded this agreement and what its precise content is. On Monday, you also mentioned a discount you received. Is that a 90% discount? Why should you have received this discount in Belgium, when Avastin has been administered in countries such as France, the United States and the Netherlands in the event of age blindness? On Tuesday, however, you did not confirm that in the press. Today is Wednesday and we would like to know exactly what the situation is. I repeat that in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France, the medicine Avastin is administered for age blindness. In the United Kingdom, that was approved for off-patent use last month. In the Netherlands, Avastin is even the first choice vis-à-vis Lucentis. Why is this still not being repaid in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, I asked your colleague yesterday in plenary, but I have been asking you for several years to denounce this surrealist story about Avastin and Lucentis. It has also been several years since I proposed that you take a government initiative, as other countries have done. This is not a story like any other! You're dealing with two firms that have been convicted of their illegal behaviour. These firms have organized a real monopoly to guarantee all the space for the most expensive medicine, namely Lucentis. It's an arrangement between friends! As proof, these firms have been convicted twice by the competition authorities in France and Italy, with the approval of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So you had the flexibility to take an initiative and to circumvent this anti-competitive agreement while at the same time ensuring – on this point I want to insist – a safe and high-quality treatment. Even if you claim otherwise, several studies have been conducted for AMD comparing Lucentis and Avastin treatments. In these clinical studies, the efficacy and safety components were clearly analysed each time. It is for this reason that other countries have taken the initiative to propose this alternative treatment much cheaper, ensuring significant efficiency and savings. Minister, I repeat the questions I asked yesterday. Why didn't you take an initiative? I had proposed it to you in its time; other countries have done so and a royal decree has been proposed to you by the administration – I imagine. On the other hand, you say today that the price of these medicines is similar. The official price at yesterday's date is still 686 euros on the compendium. What is the exact price? I ask you to be fully transparent. Since when would the price, as you say, be similar to that of Avastin? Finally, at the end of 2014, a complaint had been lodged by Test-Achats with the Belgian Competition Authority. I'd like to know what's going on with this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat the whole dossier here, as the other speakers have done. I like to move forward. Everyone knows the file. I know it too. I don't have to prove here that I know it or don't know it. I shall therefore immediately put my questions to you. Most of the questions I wanted to ask have already been asked. I am therefore happy to await the answer. In particular, however, I would like to ask the following question. In fact, the previous speakers have already noted it. You have stated in the press that you discussed the expensive medicine with Novartis and that you were finally able to obtain a price of 50 to 70 euros by negotiation. Here's what I'd like to know. Madam Minister, can you confirm once again with your hands on the heart here in committee that the expensive medicine Lucentis is available through negotiation at the same price as the cheaper medicine Avastin? I have an additional question about these negotiations. Such negotiations and the contract often include the need for further scientific research into the efficacy and long-term safety of the medicinal products in question. Was that also the case here? Was such a clause included in the negotiations? Is that research being done in the meantime? Is there also monitoring of further safety and efficacy studies? I also have a question about the ophthalmologists. The ophthalmologists stress to us that Avastin has the same effectiveness as the more expensive medicine. Have you sat at the table with the ophthalmologists? If so, why don't you listen to those experience experts? Why not communicate more clearly with them and also with us or the people about the price negotiations with the pharmaceutical groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u7	Mr President, Minister, yesterday I had a question on the subject on the plenary agenda. As a result, I had not yet put a question here. For sp.a, it's simple. There are two anti-age blindness medicines that doctors have been saying for years that they are both equally effective and safe. This safety has been investigated several times. Madam Minister, according to the information you have provided here in Parliament, one medicine costs between EUR 50 and EUR 70. The other medicine costs almost 700 euros. It is the expensive medicine that is reimbursed by health insurance. In the meantime, we estimate that this must have cost half a billion euros of this health insurance. Madam Secretary, you claimed this is not half a billion dollars. You even moved on. You even said that both medications cost the same amount in the meantime. That's what you negotiated with the firm. Allow me to seriously doubt that. I have three questions, Madam Secretary. Firstly, the royal decision to repay the cheapest drug has been ready for four years. That is well prepared by all possible services. We want to know why you refuse to do so, while in many European countries the cheapest means is paid back. The KB to repay the cheapest means is not carried out by you. Secondly, if what you have said is true, in particular that the two medicines are now equally expensive, then I assume that Lucentis will also cost between EUR 50 and EUR 70, since that is the price of the other medicine. If that were true, you would have agreed almost 90% in the negotiations. If that's true, I wish you congratulations, because that's a firm negotiation. Or isn't that right? That's what I'd like to know from you. Or is it partly correct and have other concessions been made instead? Thirdly, why is TestAankoop's complaint still collecting dust from the BMA? Why hasn't it been done all these years? That is why we have asked for this to be a joint committee on Health and Consumer Affairs. I would like a clear answer to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u8	Do other groups wish to speak in the debate? If that is not the case, I give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday this matter was discussed in plenary. Of course, I did not know which questions you would ask, so we have drawn up a general answer. I heard from a press release that you were not satisfied at all. I would also have preferred to have given a decent answer in the Chamber rather than to have to take part in that meeting in Luxembourg, but it is what it is. I was apologized. And if you want to play a game, after all, I have heard that there has been a lot of hassle yesterday, then perhaps I should apologize in future for all the representations I can do for our country. We shall then see what the consequences will be. Concern about the high prices of medicines is a legitimate concern, not only for the patient, but also for the government. After all, we have been working for five years to keep the prices of medicines affordable for the public authorities. Quite a few stories come from the press, where there is no need for that concern at all. That is also the case in this case. It is said that we would pay back a very expensive medicine. It would be EUR 500 million extra expenditure on social security, and yesterday you added some index, Mrs Jiroflée, and you already received EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u10	I never said that. I said half a billion, just like I said now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u11	Then that was said in your name. I saw a tweet with 600 million euros in it. Then you didn't tweet it yourself, so you could pull someone else's ears for it. There would be half a billion extra social security expenditure because we would pay back an expensive medicine instead of the cheap alternative. It's no big deal. You've been doing a lot of math. Yesterday I said that the cost of treating the patient with both medicines is almost the same, but you are making it the price for the medicine. It is about the cost of treatment, that is something other than the price for the medicine, a medicine one of which is not registered and therefore must also be manipulated by I-don't-who, for which a price has to be paid. It is a confidential contract, as so many countries have concluded. That confidentiality is prohibited by law. This confidentiality shall apply to all members of the committee negotiating the contract. This concerns the representatives of the mutualities. The president himself is of the RIZIV. The Chairman of the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting also sits on the committee and there are also representatives of the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Public Health and Budget. All of these persons have signed a confidentiality clause and are deemed not to provide information. I myself am kept informed through my representative, but I also do not disclose confidential information. If you want to put that at risk, a lot of contracts will no longer apply and patients will have to look for other places for a lot of treatments. However, all this does not mean that I do not want to explain the dossier. When I started in this department in 2014, I got this file as a legacy on my plate because Mrs Onkelinx was already confronted with this expensive medicine in 2012. For this reason, a very limited number of repaid injections were chosen, which were also limited in time. Since this is an old age illness, the patients had to cough up some 900 euros per injection themselves afterwards. Of course, this is not nothing for multiple injections per year. We have sought a solution to this. I will tell you how we have managed to repay this very important medicine, for people who are threatened with blindness. In addition, this is done in a safe way both for the patient and for all indications. Mrs Depoorter has rightly said that this is an old age disease, maculopathy. However, the medicine is also used for four other ailments, including diabetic retinopathy. The medications Lucentis and Avastin were available simultaneously. Both were placed on the market and also recognised as medicinal products for oncological use, i.e. for colon and rectum cancer. That medicinal product is therefore only registered for oncology use, the other is registered for ophthalmological use. The refund for Lucentis used to be, when I started, very limited in time and it was also expensive. We have indeed received the signal from the ophthalmologists that some patients could not afford it anymore. The medicine must of course remain affordable for the patient. An alternative was off-label use, with risks for the patient and for the physician. For the doctor that risk is limited to his liability, but it will be the patient who receives an infection or bleeding from an intraocular injection that his doctor is responsible for, because this will cause him to lose an eye. This also affects public health, and I think that you are all rather light about it. You're just gonna let anything squirt into your eye? I don't intend to. That should be done with the least risk to the patient. Indeed, there are cases where serious complications have occurred in the eyes following injection of an impure product or a non-accurate dose. At the beginning of the legislature, we looked for a solution for patients. One of the solutions offered to us was the off-label use of Avastin for the treatment of age blindness and its reimbursement by the government. In order to do so, a KB had to be adopted. We have prepared this ourselves, not the administration, but if we are to prepare an RB, let us look at it by the competent agencies in terms of security and feasibility. That KB was prepared and presented, but in 2015 the experts of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products thoroughly analysed all scientific data and came to two alarming conclusions. Firstly, the manufacturer mentions side effects of the use of Avastin for eye conditions on the scientific package leaflet and, secondly, the re-packing or re-conditioning, moving from a large vial to smaller individual doses, may also pose a risk to the contamination of the product resulting in impaired action of the medicine. It is clear that a medicine intended for rectum cancer cannot be injected into an eyeball in the same way. For this, one should not take an anatomy course. In other words, there was no absolute certainty that the off-label use of Avastin against age blindness was as safe and effective as Lucentis treatment. It would be a huge scandal if the Health Minister made that decision for financial reasons, knowing that the patient is not perfectly safe and that there is an effective alternative. The fact that it hasn't been registered is gonna get on top of it. What did I do? I found it a problem for the patients that the reimbursement of Lucentis was limited in terms of the number of doses. There was also a limitation in time. That is why we have entered into negotiations to obtain a lower price for Lucentis. We have followed general principles which have been applied throughout these five years. In other words, as a government, we want a correct price for medicines. A correct price takes into account possible alternatives. For a medicine for which there is another treatment, we as a government pay a similar price, if the effect is similar. That fits in with the Article 81 contracts. You know the composition of the committee. Mrs. Depoorter, you asked me about the profiles of the doctors. I've gotten them a lot. They're about prescribing cheap medication, if there's any alternative. Avastin is about off-label usage. That's not included in the profiles for prescription medication. It really doesn't belong in it. The use of Avastin is of course in the figures of the RIZIV, but only for oncological use, not for ophthalmological use. Like other people, you had questions about the conciliation authority, Mrs Depoorter. It might have been a good thing to have the Minister of Economy here, but she cannot make much of that, because it is an independent agency. Why have they left that out for so many years? Maybe you should try asking them. It is not clear to me why they have left it, but it is also true for other matters. I am not speaking about the exact price of Lucentis in view of the confidentiality. It is true that the total cost of a treatment is the same for Lucentis and Avastin. To sum up, this means that today we are paying back a 100 percent safe and effective medicine for the treatment of macular degeneration. The cost is the same as this for refunding offlabel use of Avastin, with the necessary consequences. For me, the patient always comes first. So everything has to be tested for patient safety, which has not happened there. There has also been an effective investigation into possible market manipulation. I know it is tempting to ask questions about an investigation to a minister who is not involved, but I cannot, of course, comment on this. All I know is what I read in the paper, and I can't go into that. The separation of powers is also a crucial foundation of our society. I assume that the Members present will respect that, too. Whatever the outcome of that study, I have ensured that Belgian patients with these indications receive the best possible treatment without social security paying unnecessarily much for it. To my great surprise, I see a figure of half a billion in the newspaper that is then taken over by everyone and tweeted about. Where did they get half a billion dollars? We have not been able to find that amount, except in a macro-economic study on the possible use throughout Europe, not only in Belgium. It will be 28 countries. There they got half a billion euros, but that was a comparison with the Facial Prize of Lucentis. I've requested the figures of the gross cost of Lucentis' social security reimbursement. In 2017, it amounted to 51 million euros. I repeat: EUR 51 million. So it's not about billions. You mentioned EUR 500 million, which is a considerable difference. The extrapolation for 2018, based on the use and reimbursements in the first trimester, amounts to 57 million euros. The information I give you applies to the five indications. The newspapers were talking about half a billion euros. Apparently, no one realizes that all of our spending on all medicines includes EUR 4.2 to 4.5 billion per year, which I think is a large amount. Half a billion, that is more than the amount for the whole group of immunological treatments, yet expensive treatments for many indications. Apparently, some people dare to repeat that half a billion in the press because it sounds so good. Since it is about EUR 50 to EUR 57 million, it is a mystery to me how we get to that EUR half billion. Possibly it's a reading error. Mrs Tillieux, with regard to Rule 80, I have already told you that the committee is not me. You're saying I'm the one who decided, but no! I receive an opinion from this committee, in which the mutualities, three ministers, the INAMI and the president of the CRM sit. If I decide not to follow this opinion, I must also give reasons for my decision. You quote Het Laatste Nieuws, according to which there is a secret agreement. You mention Article 80, without which there is no agreement. I found a secret agreement in the INAMI safe when I started. This was the secret agreement on the Soliris. We had to look a lot in the INAMI safe. It was the secret agreement of the one that preceded me, but I never made a secret agreement. Mrs Merckx, the royal decision was never taken. You say it was confirmed, but the KB was never taken. The advice was clear and I did not want to take the risk of injecting an unsafe product into people's eyes, even if it was cheaper at the time. The prices you quote and go all the way, like Mrs Jiroflée's figures, cannot be confirmed. Perhaps it would be good if you revealed your source. A vial of Avastin costs just over 300 euros; you give amounts of about 50 euros, which is a big difference. We also had an alternative. If we had not been able to reduce the price of Lucentis sufficiently and still wanted to find a solution for the patients concerned, we could indeed have taken the risk of allowing the off-label use of Avastin, such as abroad. I am surprised at the fact that the safety of the patient is simply ignored here in the Committee on Health, while the sight of the patient is only two eyes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Usually, if in one eye the blood vessels are affected due to age, so will be in the other, unless they are vascular indications. It is therefore best to pay back a safe medicine for the patient, unlimited in time and in the number of syringes. In this way, the patient can be given the safest treatment. Mrs Fonck, you're talking about a monopoly. A patent means a monopoly. A patent on medication is also a monopoly. It's time-limited. I think this patent on Lucentis is valid until early 2021. I've already told you that in other countries, too, it's always offbeat. Roche does not intend to claim the refund for ophthalmological indications. It's the same in other countries. They took the risk. I refuse to take that risk. As far as the royal decree is concerned, yes, this idea has been examined by my cabinet. But as a result of the opinions that the safety of treatment for patients was not validated, I decided not to do so. Where is the Test-Achats folder? We don't know that. I can't ask, at least not more than you. Apparently, there are priorities at home too. But five years is already a long time. Maybe now they're gonna dive into it. Have you listened to the ophthalmologists? Some ophthalmologists found Avastin really unsafe and didn't want to take the risk. Others said they wanted to do it for their patients, despite the great responsibility, because their patients cannot continue to pay the price that is now charged for the number of treatments required per year. We've certainly listened to the ophthalmologists, but we've also listened to the patients. The ophthalmologists are not all on the same page and do not speak out how they want to deal with it. Mrs Jiroflée, you always talk about prices. We are talking about the cost of treatment. There is a difference between the cost of a vial and the treatment given that the reconditioning of Avastin must be carried out in sterile conditions, it is intraocular injection and the stability of the product in an intestine is different from that in an eye. The responsibility lies with the doctor, but the risk of impairment of vision or loss of vision lies with the patient. I didn't want to take that chance. You're still entitled to a reply. I expect another explanation of your way of mathematics. How did you get that half billion euro? In my view, this does not concern refunds. I hope it will be the same in the paper that it is not half a billion euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u12	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to provide you with information on the Test-Achats complaint and the sp.a.'s request for a joint commission with the Economy Committee. Following yesterday's meeting with the chairman of this committee, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, it was agreed that a meeting would be organised with the participation of the Belgian Competition Authority and Test-Achats. This meeting is likely to take place on a Monday in order to avoid scheduling problems. This aspect will therefore still be dealt with in the Committee on the Economy, but you will all be invited to participate in the debates. Having said that, as we are talking about a topical and urgent debate, I refer to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides for a two-minute time limit for replies. I therefore ask everyone to be concise so that we can move on to the other issues on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u13	Madam Secretary, you have not convinced me. Our group welcomes the reimbursements for patients with macular degeneration, as we are very aware that the cost of this treatment is very high. That is a positive thing to say. However, I am disappointed by your analysis of the royal decree, as well as the reasons why your experts did not make a refund. First of all, you will discuss the manufacturer's mention. It goes without saying that if the manufacturers had made price agreements and if one manufacturer wanted to place it on the market and the other did not, it would not be advisable to use it for the purposes of a package leaflet. The second argument concerns the repacking. The hospital pharmacists who are actually responsible for this repacking are convinced of the usefulness of the repacking. Does your statement mean that you don't find anything that is injected, including chemotherapeutics, very often cocktails specifically for the patient either.................................................................................... That analysis seems to me with the current techniques...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u14	That's your interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u15	I'm quoting what your experts have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u16	The experts of the FAGG have said this in a recommendation addressed to me. You extrapolate that to other manipulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u17	Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u18	No, that's on your own account. I didn't say that. In view of the report, I would like to clarify that the idea that this is extrapolated to manipulations of chemotherapeutics is your claim. It's your verdict, not mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u19	Madam Minister, Parliament has the floor for the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u20	Madam Minister, I would like to say that I find it very special that your experts describe a repacking as very risky, while in medical care repacking, even for sterile doses, are very common. That's my point. I therefore notice some lack of confidence with regard to the hospital pharmacists and the expertise in repacking in hospitals. With regard to the negotiations and the profiles, you rightly said that the profiles are for cheap medicines, which is true. However, if we expect our doctors to prescribe cheap medicines in their daily practice, do you not think it is normal that we continue to expect orphan medicines and specialized medicines? The doctors are asking for it themselves. If we want to respond to expensive and innovative medicines that are coming towards us, then we must trust the doctors so that they know what they are doing. I do not therefore need you to tell me the price yet, but making a comparison will then be possible. If a doctor on his computer screen sees that Lucentis costs 700 euros and Avastin 300 euros, the doctor may know that it is not de facto those prices, but the doctor may prescribe them economically. That is a sign of trust for the doctor, and I am sure he will go along with it. My two-minute speaking time is over, but this is just about the most important thing I want to say: I want this committee to come up with a vision for expensive and innovative medicines, because that is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u21	Mr. Chair, Minister, of course we agree with you on the treatment safety objectives for the patient. Nevertheless, you seem to be making fun of the figure of half a billion euros quoted in the press. But it's our role as a Member of Parliament to question you because we don't have the numbers. When agreements are negotiated, they are confidential. You're saying it. It is therefore difficult for us to estimate the amount. It is therefore normal for you to be asked about this and it is up to you to give us the reasons for this possible figure. You're telling us you found a safe. You add that there was only one secret agreement. And you deny you sealed a secret agreement. Madam Minister, you "swelled" that safe. Confidential agreements exploded during this legislature. You have to say it! Established since 2010, the procedure for access to reimbursement of medicines parallel to the traditional procedure makes it possible to make a new innovative medicine available to patients, while certain uncertainties, in particular as to its effectiveness, persist. This is typically the case with what we have just discussed. They were used under this legislature in a very ordinary way, thus derailing the budget for medicines and thus health care. The KCE has recently set out a series of ways to improve the Belgian system of conventions – this is the famous Article 81 – to place more emphasis on the benefit for the patient and above all on the long-term sustainability of health insurance. KCE has also made a series of technical recommendations to make the process more transparent and balanced. In general, we believe that the conclusion of a convention should remain an exception and should never be possible for medicinal products without real therapeutic added value or for those for which there are already alternatives that are not under convention. That is really the crux of the question! We cannot therefore hear that you have not reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u22	Mrs De Block, this is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but I propose to give you the floor very briefly after the replies. Having said that, I have let you speak for 25 minutes, whereas in a topical and urgent debate the time limit is 5 minutes. Then there's a last turn of lines. I understand that this is a passionate and important debate. I therefore ask you, Madam Minister, not to interrupt the speakers every time. As I said, I will briefly give you the floor. But the last word will come back to Parliament. That is how it works in this institution!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u23	Madam Secretary, I note that you're slowly retiring. It was said that this would have cost EUR 500 million. You are asking us to support our figures, but you must not do that. You're backing down for two reasons. Firstly, you say that the price is not the same, but the treatment is about the same. (Protests from Minister De Block)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u24	Mrs De Block, you already have the favor of taking the floor afterwards, but you cannot always interrupt!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u25	They interrupt me too! The cost of the treatment is not the price of the medicine. You really are creating confusion! It's not the price of the medicine, it's the cost of the treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u26	I think you're also creating a little confusion, ma'am. Not every patient needs full treatment and can therefore be discontinued at any given time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u27	I'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u28	The question is how much the injection of Lucentis costs, compared to Avastin's. First of all, you'll back down because you'll come back to the fact that that price would be the same. Secondly, the argument you put forward for the non-application of the Royal Decree on the repayment of Avastin is quite scandalous. You are not talking about the price there, but only about safety. So you do the same thing as Novartis: scare the ophthalmologists. My grades are from the ophthalmologists. The professional association of ophthalmologists wrote to you in 2014. The doctors are convinced. You say you want to apply evidence-based medicine. A 2014 Cochrane review states that the medicine is equivalent, equally effective and equally safe. The doctors want to use it, but you will continue with the false arguments of the pharmaceutical industry not to repay it. That's just outrageous. In the other countries it has been done. In the Netherlands, Avastin is the first choice. In the United Kingdom, it is administered off-patent. Everyone has noticed that Novartis and Roche, who were convicted of this, are messing with us and trying to trick us into making more money. Secret chords are not necessary. It has been transparent in the other countries. I don't see why you had to make a secret agreement on that. You could just let the two products compete with each other and everyone could have learned about the price of Lucentis and Avastin. Since 2009, the ophthalmologists have known about the existence of Avastin. In 2014, they asked to be able to administer it effectively. In that case, we could have allowed them to compete with each other and we could have paid a fair price for the treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u29	Minister, you are telling us that a difference must be made between price and cost. In the compendium, the official price is still 686 euros. I would be curious to know how you do the use of Eylea. He's at the same price. You tell us that from 2017, the total cost of social security amounts to 51 million euros. I would like to know: how many was it before 2017? The millions are easy to reconstruct: 100,000 patients, 5 to 6 injections per year on average, 600 to 800 euros – depending on the years – of difference between Avastin (which is used for several patients) and Lucentis (for which half of the ampoule is thrown into the trash). With a quick calculation, we arrive very quickly to the hundreds of millions. I would like to know the cost of social security before 2017. You negotiated an agreement with firms that were fined. The Court of Justice of the European Union got involved and ruled twice in 2018. So I think it's hard to believe what you're saying. You're talking about the privacy clause, but you broke it yourself when you say the cost is similar to Avastin. I therefore ask you to make this agreement public because the situation is special, with convicted firms. Furthermore, with regard to the safety difference between these two products, should we recall the studies IVAN, CATT, GEFAL, MANTA, LUCAS and the two recent meta-analyses? The file is known from a scientific point of view. I am concerned by the fact that you are trying to make believe that there are fundamental differences, as if Lucentis were safe and that Avastin was a disaster! These two products carry risks because they are intravitreal injections! Lucentis is administered by intraocular injection and is an anti-VEGF, so it also produces side effects. To make one believe that one is a miracle and that the other produces many side effects is precisely what the Court of Justice of the European Union has pointed out as unacceptable on the part of firms. You're reproducing this little game here. Let me tell you how shocked I am! As a reminder, in case you forget it, hospital pharmacists do this for other products in other indications. It's as if you let it be understood that it was in fine these manipulations that led to these side effects, while the two products are two anti-VEGF with unfortunately known side effects. However, the latter should be balanced against the benefits of these medicines, especially for diseases such as AMD or diabetic retinopathy, which can make them blind. Mr President, obviously there are many other things to be said. I will stop there for today and look forward to being able to deal with this issue in the Committee on the Economy to examine the reasons for the attitude of the Belgian Competition Authority. This agency is independent, of course, but it has not reacted – contrary to what has been done in other countries – even though Test Purchases has requested it since 2014.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u30	Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. First of all, you say you don't want to take any risks because Avastin hasn't been registered. However, we hear from ophthalmologists that Avastin is as safe as Lucentis, so I wonder if you know better than the ophthalmologists who use it every day. I find that somewhat ambiguous. Experience experts say that Avastin has the same effect, with probably the same side effects, as Lucentis, and that it is equivalent, but you say that you will not repay it because it is not registered. I think that's an imbalance. Secondly, you blame us for telling cowboy stories and for ripping everything out of context, but you may be guilty of it yourself. Should you communicate openly about such pricing, there would be no cowboy stories. I call for open communication in all areas of public health, but certainly for an open debate on the pricing of medicines. Thirdly, you have not answered my question regarding the secret contract you have negotiated with Novartis. Was it asked to study the long-term efficacy and safety of Lucentis treatment? If that were negotiated in this way, has it been followed up and is it controlled? I do not think you have answered that. I also wonder whether you have scientific research that shows that Avastin is not safe or less safe than Lucentis. If that's the case, get it to us. At least we have something we can learn from, but now you say in vain that one medicine is not safe and the other is, without you being able to prove it. We must be able to prove our claims, but you do not prove anything. We must accept what you say about secret contracts and secret talks, and then you expect us to know everything, when everything is secret and we are not told anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u31	Madam Secretary, I have four elements of reply. Firstly, we have all calculated the figures in our own way. It's all estimates. I have heard several colleagues here say that we do not know because it is a contrat secret, we can only rely on what ophthalmologists and hospitals tell us to try to make an estimate of those figures. Secondly, you say you can't repay Avastin because you don't think it's safe. You have apparently been advised by a number of authorities that the medicine would not be safe. We ask for advice and hear from both the ophthalmologists and the hospitals that the medicine is 100 % safe. Moreover, the question arises as to whether all the other European countries, which do pay back the medicine, are really doing so irresponsiblely. This would mean that they would simply pay back unsafe products. You also seem to forget, Madam Secretary, that both firms were convicted of manipulation. They were sanctioned for this. You put this next to you and conjure up advice on insecurity. This brings me to my third point. We would like to see these opinions. According to our information, the RIZIV and the FAGG have prepared a safe administration into that KB. If the FAGG has given you a negative opinion, can you confirm this? Can we see that negative advice? What was that based on? I do not think that advice is part of secret contracts and we would like to see it. This brings me to my fourth point, Mr President. Madam Minister, even after your detailed explanation, you have absolutely not convinced me. I remain convinced that a number of manipulations have taken place in this dossier and that these manipulations are better covered. Besides, they've been convicted of that. Madam Minister, since I would like to see both the negative opinions you are referring to and some of those advisory organisations, I would ask very explicitly for a hearing with the CTG and the RIZIV. In this way they can clarify their position to us. We would also like to hear the BMA (Belgian Competition Authority) on this dossier. I shall therefore come back to my proposal to organise a joint committee with the Committee on Consumer Protection. Since there are so many doubts in this dossier, I think that we are entitled to a hearing. In this way, we can question those concerned themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u32	Mrs Jiroflée, I take note of your question and propose that we speak on it later. I will give the floor to Minister De Block exceptionally, because a number of questions have also been asked in the replies. However, I would like to ask you to be relatively brief, because there are still a few dozen questions on other subjects that should be followed in principle, Madam Minister. After that, the questioners can give a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u33	Mr President, I will only answer the questions. After I have mentioned things quite explicitly by name, I think it is a punishment to hear them differently on the benches of Members of this House and to say that I have said so. So I'd like to respond to that. Mrs Depoorter, you say that hospital pharmacists can mix and dose for oncological use, which is certainly the case, but those doses are used immediately. Only when the patient has been weighed and a blood test has been performed will the hospital pharmacy be told which dose of which medicine is needed and then the mix will be made for immediate use. When it comes to reconditioning an entire vial of Avastin, it is not done to inject immediately x-number of patients. If that were to happen in a hospital pharmacy and one would know how long that medicine will remain stable in another pack and syringe, I would certainly be able to get in there, but if that were to happen in the ophthalmologist's office, I don't know which ophthalmologists you've all seen, but apparently there are a lot of ophthalmologists, so there are other consequences for stability and sterility. So I wouldn't compare apples to pears. I certainly do not prejudice the useful work that hospital pharmacists do. Moreover, they are subject to increasingly strict conditions, which is why there is cooperation between different hospitals. Mrs. Tillieux, you asked for the numbers. It was said that you do not know the figures, that you do not know what to base on. That is why you have decided, Mrs Jiroflée, to take an amount that is high enough, and so you have taken half a billion euros. Those figures are public. The figures are known: you can see them in the report on the INAMI website, which is not so difficult to find. Those figures from the past few years, about Lucentis' gross cost, you'll find there. So we are not talking about secret figures here. Those numbers are known. You just have to search Google for INAMI. People talk about secret contracts here all the time. I know this is a good thing, but we are talking about contracts in the context of an existing article that was rightly invoked by my predecessor. This brings added value, as access for the patient is improved. In addition, it is possible to negotiate the price after a negative procedure within the Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products. It is sometimes not possible to apply to the Commission for medicinal products. The Committee on the Prevention of Medicinal Products often sends over cases for which it recommends that Article 80 be dealt with, on which we return them with the observation that there is sufficient scientific evidence and that the ordinary procedure can be used. There were a lot of these cases last year anyway. As everyone knows, everything about the negotiations of this working group is not secret; it is well known! In particular, there are possible monitoring mechanisms and compensation mechanisms within the framework of the conventions. You can't suck it out of your mind. There are five different ones. There is also a combination of those five different possible. That's conscience. It is just the annex which is secret and which concerns the data of a convention and the sensitive information of the company, especially about the budgetary compensation mechanism. Moreover, the Centre of Knowledge has carried out a study of all the information contained in the Article 80 medicinal products, but the annexes have not received it. That has given rise to questions in this committee. The gross amounts can be found here. Mrs Merckx, you obviously don't know me well yet. I'm not backing down. I said from the first time that it was about the cost of treating the patient and not about the price. The patient's treatment costs are the same for the two medicines, one of which is still not legally acceptable in our country. I insist that we have chosen the safest way for the patient. The ophthalmologists give a different advice than the FAGG. If you ask me to shut down the Medicines Agency because his experts are giving advice that has been completely ripped off, and our ophthalmologists know much better, I'll take your message to the FAGG. I can see you nodding in agreement. So you don't really want a drug agency anymore? You will then be able to ask Mr Ducarme to shut down the Food Agency, and we will be back to zero. I have given this committee the opportunity to recruit international experts from the FAGG. Mrs. Fonck will remember, since she was there. We have made some adjustments in order to be able to recruit international scientists. I do not know if the scientists in Belgium are so much worse than their international colleagues. Anyway, the possibility exists to recruit them abroad, while our experts are asked abroad. Perhaps you would prefer the expertise to be obtained in other countries. I therefore based myself on an opinion from the FAGG. If a minister has to ignore the advice of the pharmaceutical agency... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u34	Yes, you would, but you're a little more anarchist than I am. I respect the law and take the advice of my medical support committees seriously. In that, and perhaps in other cases, we differ. What if we're going to pay off-label medicine in our country? That would be a precedent. Then that can happen for other things as well. Then we give our control mechanisms, with regard to safety, the scientific added value for the patient and the cost, completely out of our hands. I believe that we agree on this. You don't nod anymore. You were nodding a few minutes ago. But I see you can't be found for that either. It's about getting a fair price for the drug. That is a challenge in all countries. In fact, if things are going on at firms and between firms, and now with the biosimilar medicines, then they must be cleared up and the firms involved must be condemned for that. If I can help with that, I will, but I haven't been asked yet. Mrs Fonck, you're talking about the possibility of wasting Lucentis' bulbs. They have taken steps in the meantime. This was the case at the beginning: you had to throw away everything else in the syringe. Now they have taken steps to avoid that. You're asking me to drop the confidentiality of section 80. You can ask me forever. I won't do that. Indeed, confidentiality is important. Confidentiality is important, and I'm not gonna give it up. And if others want to give up confidentiality, with all the consequences of that, then they should. You say I think one medicine is miraculous, and the other is not possible. The law still prohibits the refund of off-label medicines. You say you're shocked because I don't respect our law. That's it! Mrs Sneppe, the law must be respected. I understand the question of the ophthalmologists you consulted, but the ophthalmologists are also supposed to respect the law and have the best interests with their patients. It is not just a question of price; it is also a question of safety. As far as long-term effects are concerned, at the start of use there were indeed insufficient data on them. However, I was told that at the moment there are no uncertainties for the indication of macular degeneration for the other indications, each time other data are available, neither about the number of injections to be administered, nor about the added value and effect of the medicine. The only uncertainty so far was the uncertainty about the price. Mrs Jiroflée, you say that all European countries pay back. I come to three countries: Italy, France and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u35	I didn't say "all," I said "other."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u36	I thought you said "all." Those other countries must assume their responsibilities. I'll take it for our patients. They do that for theirs. The FAGG opinion, on which we based ourselves, dates back to 2015. It's a public document because it's an advice. It can be delivered to the committee. I invite you to read it. It's very interesting reading. I have no objection whatsoever to the committee members reading the opinion. The texts for the design of KB did not come from the FAGG and the RIZIV, but from us. The texts of the RIZIV were discussed here. But those were our lyrics. It was originally our question to take that KB and just because we wanted to proceed with that KB, we asked for the FAGG's opinion. You keep repeating that off-label use is possible, but I must point out that this is not possible under our laws. As far as an opinion of the Committee on Medicinal Products is concerned, that committee can only give advice on medicines that are registered. The Commission was unable to give an opinion on this issue as there was no registration and only off-label use was possible. So she didn't look into it. If you think there's any advice on the matter in a drawer of my desk, I'm gonna have to disappoint you. Such advice has never had any reason to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u37	Madam Minister, as far as comparing apples with pears is concerned, I have been a pharmacist for 25 years and clearly know the difference between syringes given intraocularly and in situ prepared chemotherapeutics. Maybe you don't know it yet, but today, chemotherapeutics are being prepared as much as possible in advance. This is, of course, done in the context of the affordability of treatment. I fully follow you, of course, that the village apothecary or the ophthalmologist clearly should not redistribute the syringes at his home. We weren't talking about that. However, we talked about the hospital pharmacy, where a clean office is redistributed according to the needs. I'd like to talk about off-label usage. It is true that that is not ideal, neither for the doctors nor for the government. However, the whole discussion lacks the story of registration. For example, bupropion hydrochloride or Zyban. At the time, this was developed for the treatment of depression. It has been seen to work during smoking cessation treatment. The company then applied for registration for the smoke-stop treatment itself. In the case of Avastin and Lucentis, that would also have been possible. Avastin has scientifically proven the same effect and the same side effects as Lucentis. The company concerned could have applied for registration in the context of ophthalmological use. When we talk about new frameworks, there is a working point in this area. From the CTG, from a cabinet or from any organization, advice can be provided with scientific documentation on the functioning of certain molecules, in which case the company can be encouraged to apply for registration. In my opinion, we can work out this possibility. That's a suggestion for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u38	Mrs. Depoorter, allow me to inform you that I did. I asked Roche, in particular a representative of the Swiss localized firm, who had come to Brussels specifically for this purpose, to apply for registration. The firm refused. We can only guess the reasons for that refusal. The CTG cannot ask a firm to register funds. This has been discussed here on previous oral questions. It is the other way around: a company asks the CTG to consider the possibility of reimbursement of a registered medicinal product.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u39	So you confirm my point. You asked, but the firm refused. That's what it says here. The investigation should have been done much more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u40	If you ask, they might do it, but they won't do it for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u41	I'll give it a try.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u42	Minister, I maintain that it is essential to improve the transparency of the decisions taken with respect to reimbursements and, as recommended by the KCE, to use an evaluation of the system of agreements concluded between pharmaceutical companies and the minister, to review this mechanism so as, if necessary, to indicate precisely why this option was preferred. This seems to me an essential basis of work for our committee. Secondly, I would like to make my colleagues' requests for the Agency's negative opinion. Perhaps you could pass it on to us, Mr. President. In addition, it would be wise to continue our hearings by receiving representatives from the Federal Medicines Agency, INAMI and the SPF Economy. In this way, we will be able to see more clearly in this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u43	Minister, I did not want to make a judgment on the work of the AFMPS, but on yours. Indeed, as I said, you take back the arguments of the pharmaceutical industry, which has been condemned for competitive practices. I ask you to deploy all possible means and to base your policy on science, both in the interest of the patient and in the interest of social security. No one now believes in a cost parity between the injection of Avastin and Lucentis. I want to tell you: make this agreement public! We want to know about this annex. Show me the money Madame De Block!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u44	Mrs Merckx, I am a little surprised that you are asking for confidential information, while we have researched the operating costs of group practices and you have refused to participate in them from your organisation Medicine for the People and to provide them with transparent information yourself. It's either one or the other. No two sizes and weights!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u45	We provide all the necessary information to the RIZIV and we did not want to participate effectively in a private audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u46	You didn't want to participate in that audit, and you didn't want to provide any information. I want this to be noted anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u47	Minister, you are treating this as if it were a matter like all the others, including your negotiation through section 81. Personally, I do not consider this to be a case like any other. They have been convicted and punished in two countries for illegal practices, because they circumvent the anti-competitive aspect. If you wish, I will keep these documents at your disposal. Have you examined the very thick documents of the Court of Justice of the European Union? I quote from a paragraph: "The Court concludes that the Directive does not preclude national legislation laying down the conditions for repackaging Avastin, with a view to its use for the treatment of ophthalmological indications not covered by its marketing authorisation." We're not in a file like the others. You always come back with the notion of offlabel. Indeed, there was a need for special regulation. There was a need for a regulatory framework but also for a framework that included the modalities of operation for hospital pharmacists. Other countries have done so, and that is not the case yesterday. It started in 2014. Since then, despite your recent 2017 agreement, you could have made several hundred million savings that could have allowed patients to move forward in other areas that were beneficial to them. The lack of transparency, Madam Minister, in a case such as this one, where convictions have taken place in other countries, gives rise to mistrust and even suspicion. This is incompatible with good governance, and it is also shocking in a public health issue with such important prerequisites. It's all the more serious because you've been making frequent and well-supported calls for years. I have repeatedly relayed them. You have lacked good governance and your role as Minister of Public Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u48	These are replicas and Mrs. Fonck is asking me new questions. You ask what I could have done after the statements. There could be a registration with the European Medicines Agency, but Roche should also apply for it. Then registration could be arranged for all European countries, but they did not want it. They didn't do that. As long as there's no registration, there can be no refund. It's simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u49	It is enough to read the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union to see that what you are saying is not true. Besides, you say Roche told you no. Of course! It is for this reason that this company has been condemned in other countries. And what did these countries do? They have drawn up special regulations with a special framework, measures which have been reinforced by the Court of Justice of the European Union. In fact, your argument, which is that you couldn't do anything anyway, doesn't stand the way. As far as the price and cost of social security are concerned, I spoke earlier. You cut the cost. But things are still not clear because you refuse to be transparent when it is a different case from the others. Moreover, it must be noted that social security has had to bear a significant additional cost which has prevented further advances for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u50	Mr President, Minister, I am new here and I do not know you very well, but I have the impression that you are not comfortable here. You also avoided certain questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u51	I'm totally comfortable here. I've been here 20 years!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u52	I mean now, at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u53	(...) [[Not containing micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u54	Well, then that must have been the wrong impression, Madam Secretary. I had that impression because you avoided certain questions, for example the question, asked by other colleagues, about openness and transparency. You hide behind secret contracts and secret meetings. What can be done abroad in terms of openness and transparency is clearly not possible here. Why can't we do that here? Does it surprise you that we are asking ourselves questions about this? I asked you whether you know whether or not there is objective scientific research in connection with the safe nature of Avastin. You claim that it's not registered, that it's not safe and that you can't allow it. Does objective scientific research show that the medicine is not safe or less safe than the other? To my question about long-term scientific research, you gave me a very woolly answer. "People say there are no more problems," you said. Who do you mean by "men"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u55	It's the firm that says that. It should provide evidence of doses and long-term effects. The Committee on Medicinal Products and the experts, although not always from abroad, have examined this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u56	It's kind of weedy for the producer to say it's safe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u57	We resubmitted it to the CRM, and it was she who concluded that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u58	According to the Commission Medication Medicinal products that the study carries out on the basis of scientific data, figures and patient data provided to it, the medicinal product is safe for that indication in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u59	Mr President, it does not happen every day, but I agree with Mrs Fonck's reply. These firms have been convicted of manipulation and our country has been guided far too much by the firms that have been convicted of this. I therefore ask once again that we should be able to look at all the opinions and all the documents of the FAGG on this matter. I would then ask for the FAGG, the RIZIV and, as far as I am concerned, the BMA to be heard. After all, there is another aspect to the matter, in particular that the BMA has not responded all these years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u60	We will close the debate here. I think we're not done with this problem. We shall now turn to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u61	Mrs Van Camp being absent, I give the floor to Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u62	Mr President, I am surprised that my two questions have been joined when they deal with two completely different subjects. I'll treat them separately. At the end of the legislative term, we adopted a bill amending the Act of 22 December 2009 establishing a general regulation on the prohibition of smoking in closed places accessible to the public and the protection of workers from tobacco smoke, with a view to introducing a ban on smoking in covered vehicles in the presence of children under 16 years of age. This law came into force in August 2019. In December 2018, the Flemish Parliament decided that it was prohibited to smoke in vehicles in the presence of a child under 16 years of age. On 30 January 2019, the Wallonia Parliament adopted a decree prohibiting smoking inside vehicles in the presence of a minor child. The question is: how will these different legislations, adopted at different levels but dealing with the same subject, be linked to different rules in the area of control? In practice, is it federal legislation – i.e. the prohibition under the age of 16 – that applies throughout the territory or is it in the regional territory concerned – in this case the Walloon Region – that does not have the same legislation, the 18-year ban applies? Moreover, as you know, on 1 November, a ban on sales to customers under the age of 18 will also apply. I therefore plead in my personal capacity that these different legislations should be coordinated in a coherent manner and that it should therefore be possible to prohibit smoking by car until the age of 18. This would then be in line with the decision to ban the sale until the age of 18. I have already tabled a bill to that effect. I also propose to send it to the various colleagues in the committee, if they wish, to co-sign it. The second question has nothing to do with neutral cigarette and tobacco packages. I have this long-standing subject, Madam Minister. In the meantime, since I tabled the question, I have seen that the draft royal decree had come back and been published. I'm not going to repeat everything, we know the matter. The Ministerial Order has also been published and I have several questions about it. You make the choice, unlike all other countries that have advanced on the neutral package, to allow the manufacturer the possibility to adopt different colors, since two choices of colors are applied to it, with a subtlety for the inner color. Moreover, the entry into force will theoretically take place in 2020, but in practice it will take place in 2021. I find that a pity. You made a commitment to realize it. It took a number of years to make progress on the subject and finally, you postpone the actual entry into force to 2021, the deadline to dispose of cigarette packages. I find that a pity. I really ask myself the question about anticipating with the manufacturers. Indeed, the argument that you make – that is, the possibility of selling non-neutral packages – is obviously a little easy. It has been discussed for a long time and it has been some time since you sent the draft decree to the European Commission for notification. In this way, you allow manufacturers to produce significantly in the meantime, so you defer de facto the entry into force to 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u63	Mr President, thank you. Madam Minister, at the end of the previous legislature, the House adopted two important measures in the context of the tobacco policy, which my colleague has now addressed: raising the legal age for buying tobacco from 16 to 18 years and banning smoking in cars in the presence of children under 16 years of age – as far as the federal level is concerned. The Foundation against Cancer recently surveyed the Belgian population about their smoking habits and their attitude to the measures set out in this anti-smoking policy. The survey shows that the number of smokers remains stable compared to 2018 – 18% of respondents still report smoking every day. More specifically, however, the survey reveals broad public support for more drastic anti-smoking measures such as the total ban on advertising in outlets, the ban on exposure of tobacco products in shops, the increase in the price of rolling tobacco in order to make it equivalent to that of cigarettes, the increase in the price of cigarettes or the decrease in the number of outlets. Finally, a very large majority of respondents expressed support for the emergence of a tobacco-free generation. Despite the fact that the federal government is waiting for full exercise, Minister, the development of an anti-smoking plan in the next government agreement appears to be a high public health requirement. Minister, has an analysis of this investigation been conducted within your services? Are there any avenues already under consideration to enable further tobacco control measures to be adopted as part of a more ambitious tobacco control plan? My last question is one of my colleague's: are you considering further measures to achieve greater coherence between the different levels of powers in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u64	Mrs Fonck, we all know the history of this legislation. Indeed, the law prohibiting smoking by car was published on 8 August 2019 in the Belgian Monitor. It has been in force since 18 August 2019. The coexistence of this law and regional decrees on this subject is indeed problematic from a practical point of view. The three provisions do not refer to the same age limit – 16 or 18 years. There are conflicts and inconsistencies in implementation. Moreover, from a purely legal point of view, the Council of State twice held that the Regions were not competent in this matter. All this is a mess, I agree. But the federal law that was passed here has not been the subject of comments by the Council of State. I conclude that it is federal law that must be enforced. But of course we must start discussions with the new competent ministers in Flanders, Wallonia and the French Community. This is a subject that we could discuss in the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I do not think that this is the responsibility of the Conciliation Committee. The interministerial committee on health will certainly have to make the necessary arrangements in this respect. Given that the decrees have been challenged by the Council of State and that the federal law remains in force, it seems to me that it is necessary to align itself with the federal law. With regard to the neutral package, every effort has been made to ensure that it is applicable as from 1 January 2020, except for retailers for which it enters into force on 1 January 2021. This will allow them to dispose of their stock of old packages. Newspaper vendors and small shops have asked whether they can sell out their stocks of non-frequency tobacco products. That will not be the case for big business, for example at the border, which sell very popular brands. It must come from 1 January, but the small distributors can simply run out of stock. This does not mean that wholesalers can still do it, but it is another problem. Mrs Rohonyi, the fight against tobacco is not a single plan, but a multitude of plans - federal and regional - which have been at the initiative of Mrs Onkelinx and other competent ministers for the past 15 years. Perhaps it will be possible to unify these campaigns in one when a new Minister of Public Health succeeds me. In any case, according to the recent health survey conducted by Sciensano, the percentage of smokers is now 15%. This is therefore a decrease. We've been below the target. The results are here. There has been a significant decrease, as you say, as a result of measures taken here and there, some of which have been taken by the Regions and others by the federal government. With these results, we are largely meeting the health goal set out in my April 2016 plan. In addition, you are asking whether the development of a new plan is being considered. It is not for me to answer that question. I'm a minister of current affairs. It is not up to me to announce a new plan, even if I think it is necessary to have follow-up and to examine the measures that can still be taken. In the meantime, it has been decided to impose neutral packages, a measure that has had a significant effect in other countries. Then it will be up to future governments to act. In view of the need to work through the Interministerial Conference, there is a need for a government in all entities. They will be ten to concert on this Tobacco plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, as far as the ban on smoking by car is concerned, if this measure is to be effective, the provision must be clear to the police, which is not the case today. I agree that this should be discussed in the Interministerial Conference, but you have not raised the issue of consistency with the prohibition of sales to children under 18 years of age, which will come into force next November. In my view, there is a need for greater coherence in public health. I will send the bill to the various groups in this direction, which I have tabled for several weeks. With regard to the neutral package, you have also not answered the question on the authorisation to leave different colours, contrary to all the legislation adopted by the countries which have made progress in this area. I think this is not a good idea: one imposed colour, the most glamour possible, was the choice that was needed in terms of public health. With regard to the entry into force of this measure, I am concerned that there is not only retailers who continue to sell conventional packages until 2021. Unfortunately, the majority of tobacco packages will still be sold in the classic form. The entry into force will therefore be postponed, de facto, in 2021. Let me make one more comment. According to the Sciensano study, the number of smokers is 19.4%. This is a factual point which I think it is important to recall. Indeed, this means that fighting still needs to be waged in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that tobacco control, both active and passive, remains one of your priorities. I hope that this will also be the case for your successor. However, even if we are in day-to-day business, the concept of day-to-day business includes the follow-up of decisions and actions taken both at the federal level and at the level of the federated entities with which you must, in any case, consult. I therefore call on you to be vigilant in following up on the measures taken and in clarifying the opinions rendered, in particular, by the Council of State. Clarification is needed to the extent that health has been partially regionalised. The federated entities are competent, inter alia, for the prevention and promotion of health. Tobacco control will only be effective if each entity can act at the level of its competencies and by acting both upstream and downstream. I therefore call on you to encourage consultation. Of course, smoking has declined in our country, but we must remain ambitious, even if we have achieved the goals we set ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u67	Minister, the legislation on early declaration of euthanasia has recently been adapted to put an end to the requirement to renew the advance declaration every five years. The declaration, which would then in principle have an unlimited period of validity, of course remains subject to change at any time and can, of course, be withdrawn by the declarant as soon as he or she wishes to do so. However, it had been planned to inform registrants every 10 years of the continuation of their declaration, unless otherwise stated. There was also a question of offering the possibility for the declarant to limit the duration himself if that was his wish. Minister, have the procedures already been adapted? What about the early declarations that came to an end between the date of the law's vote and today? How have they been treated? Has any contact been made with the persons concerned? Has the advance declaration form for euthanasia already been adapted to take account of the new legislation? What adjustments do you intend to make in the coming weeks? Have the municipalities been informed of the changes to the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u68	Madam Minister, in Belgium, we can be proud to have a highly progressive law on the end of life. Since 2002, euthanasia has been legalized and thus helps to avoid tragedies such as that of Vincent Lambert who, because he lives in France, does not have this right to die in dignity. The Act of 5 May 2019 made the 2002 Act somewhat more flexible in that it extended the period of validity of the advance declaration from five to ten years. It also provided that when the person chooses to register the declaration, in accordance with paragraph 8, he or she may himself or herself determine the period of validity of the declaration. This is a step forward, even if my group believes that this deadline should simply be deleted if the declaration can be amended or withdrawn at any time. However, in order for this amendment to come into force, the law of 5 May 2019 specifies that a royal enforcement order is necessary, which must be published before 1 January 2020 in order to take effect all of its effects. However, as some experts and even some politicians, all parties, recognize, this royal decree cannot be adopted by a government in day-to-day affairs. Minister, do you confirm that the adoption of this royal enforcement order is impossible as long as the government is in day-to-day business? If so, do you not consider that the law must be amended so that its entry into force is no longer conditioned by the adoption of such a royal order of enforcement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u69	Dear colleagues, we are currently drafting a royal decree to implement section 121 of the Act of 5 May 2019 amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia. Article 200 of the same law of 5 May 2019 specifies that Article 121 shall enter into force on the date of publication in the Belgian Monitor of the royal decree referred to in that Article. The amendments made by Article 121 to the legislation on euthanasia require not only to adapt the declaration form available to citizens but also to adapt the computer application used by the municipalities for the recording of information in the central database and the very structure of that database in order to be able to encode the additional information in terms of the period of validity of the declaration. New administrative procedures should also be put in place to inform registrants, either to remind them of the existence of their declaration every 10 years, or to inform them that their declaration is due within three months. The municipalities will of course be informed in due course of the changes resulting from the new legislation and its implementing rules. Similarly, the information made available to the citizen will also be adjusted. Finally, Mrs. Rohonyi, since in our day-to-day affairs we are limited to the enforcement of the law, the problem does not arise. We do not make any new decisions. Any law which has been passed by the Chamber shall enter into force by a royal decree, but the latter may not amend it. That's how we do business on a day-to-day basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u70	Minister, I am pleased to hear that law enforcement is on track. In the coming weeks, we will of course remain vigilant as to the adaptations to be made to the information to be provided to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u71	Minister, thank you for your answer, which is quite reassuring. I was asking you about current affairs because many patients and associations who advocate for the right to die with dignity were concerned that this royal decree had not yet been published. You will tell me that this text is being drafted and that it will also provide for the form as such, such as electronic registration. This will greatly facilitate the lives of patients, as they are currently faced with administrative procedures that make it difficult for them, when they are already in a difficult situation. We will be vigilant about the follow-up to this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u72	Question No 55000014C by Mrs Eliane Tillieux is postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55000034C by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u73	Madam Secretary, I'm sure you won't remember, but about seven years ago, I had a date with you in a Q-Music taxi. You did show up at the time, but I wasn't supposed to come. I'm glad we're both here today. I have raised my question in response to a colleague of yours, Dr Luc Deprost, who rightly concerns anonymous or almost anonymous online reviews, not only in the business world but also in the liberal professions, more specifically in his field of medicine. The consequences of these anonymous or almost anonymous online reviews are currently limited to their ego for most doctors, but I believe that prevention here too is better than cure. That's why I have some questions for you. Firstly, do you recognise the problem? Secondly, are you planning initiatives in this area or have you already taken them? I am thinking of providing prevention information to doctors. Thirdly, have you or have one of your colleagues already answered the questions asked by Dr Deprost in his writing? If you did, or one of your colleagues, what was the answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u74	Mr Creyelman, you are referring to a letter that you received from a doctor who says that there is potential reputation damage due to anonymous online reviews that are published without any verification. I have not been given access to the content of that writing, but the new technologies and communication techniques do indeed have advantages and disadvantages. I see that on the Facebook page of my municipality: who knows a dentist, who knows a pediatrician? Then it is answered immediately: that is a good one or that is a bad one, which works too fast or it works too slow, and so on. There is an immediate communication of all kinds of information which I do not think these people are immediately happy with. It is also very subjective information. The speed with which this information is shared means that people always go after the facts if they want to do something about it. I assume a doctor isn't all the time on Twitter or other online communication channels. At that time, both the European and Belgian legislators considered that service providers in the electronic economy have no general obligation to monitor what is published on their platforms. I'll get you those documents. It's very boring reading. The aim was to avoid private censorship and to allow service providers to develop the services without too much concern. Indeed, the fluidity with which it can be communicated entails risks. There's even the possibility of just protecting incorrect information. This is very topical, because you know, for example, the Antivaxers, who say that vaccination can be harmful. They work through these communication channels and platforms. Recently, in the framework of the European Commission, there was a very interesting debate in which I took part. There, for example, Google has agreed to censor and engage in this kind of communication. That was an important step forward. Other platforms have joined and are now aware of the dangers that the flexible way of working to spread fake news or harmful news via their platforms can pose. The European Court of Human Rights also says that there are limits to freedom of expression, in order to protect, among other things, the reputation and rights of other citizens. The victims of incorrect information may initiate the necessary procedures for slander, but that is always after the facts. They may claim compensation where a false comment or a comment whose merits cannot be proven leads to damage. We must be able to prove the damage, which is difficult. A less far-reaching or first step may be to ask the service provider in the electronic economy, i.e. the service provider of the platform, to delete the relevant messages. That is the so-called notice and take down. As far as the Antivaxers are concerned, they are prepared to do so proactively themselves: as soon as something appears, they will remove it. You yourself say that unfounded reviews can be used as a marketing strategy. Here, legislation and the punishment of acts can be invoked contrary to fair market practices, for example, blackmailing a competitor. However, that is also difficult to prove. There are a number of mechanisms that need to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis in which victims of incorrect information can defend their rights and be protected and compensated. I'd like to add one more thing. A direct approach to the platforms about the damage they can do to people.......................................................................................................................................................................................... It is only after the facts that we can go to a court of law that we can really do something about it. The service providers agreed to that, and that is an important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u75	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I am very pleased that you are aware of the potential issues and are in touch with service providers such as Google, because in this particular case it is about Google Review. It's easy to give a few stars to someone. On that basis, one destroys or promotes a person's reputation. Doctors or physicians do not have the ability to advertise in the strict sense of the word. All they can do is disseminate correct information about the profession they practice. There is a risk that fewer bona fide physicians, whether or not from abroad, will apply these practices as a kind of marketing strategy. I am very pleased that you are doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u76	Minister, in its Opinion No. 9141, dated March 6th of this year, the Higher Council of Health recommends a basic vaccination schedule, of course in relation to the epidemiology of diseases and the characteristics of vaccines. As part of its mission to prevent infectious diseases, the Belgian Pediatric Society is raising awareness of the need to vaccinate children against a number of diseases, some of which have almost disappeared, when others are experiencing an increase, such as pertussis or measles. In early July, the Belgian Pediatric Society publicly requested that the type B meningitis vaccine be reimbursed and/or added to the mandatory vaccination schedule. According to some sources, between 100 and 120 children are infected each year. About 50 are precisely the meningococcal type B. It affects children mainly children under the age of 5, and adolescents aged 15 to 19. The most common vaccine against this form, type B, would cost, according to the SBP, 260 euros for the three doses to be administered. However, we know that the Supreme Council of Health has so far not recommended such a refund for this vaccine. If I am not mistaken, the last opinion is No 9125 of March 2017. In addition, the Federal Health Care Expert Centre also indicated that the vaccine should not be included in the vaccination schedule. More recently, the Higher Council of Health would have announced a new scientific study on this vaccine with a view to determining whether there is now a need to make it mandatory. Could you please tell me whether your services have been requested by the Belgian Pediatric Society in the context of applications for reimbursement and/or addition to the vaccination schedule of this vaccine? Does the Higher Council of Health have before it any new opinions or studies on this type B meningitis vaccine based on data collected in the United Kingdom? Since when is this vaccine available for administration in our country, and after what procedure? How many such vaccines have been administered in Belgium, and to whom? What specific procedure should be undertaken to ensure that this vaccine can be reimbursed and/or included in the vaccination schedule? Has the pharmaceutical company that owns this vaccine introduced such a procedure for applying for reimbursement of the type B meningococcal vaccine from INAMI? What are your contacts with the Flemish and Francophone authorities in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u77	Mr President, Madam Minister, cerebral paralysis in premature babies is often detected only after the first year of life, after the annual check-up at the Centre for Development Disorders. The offer of recognized and refunded cerebral paralysis therapies in Belgium is rather limited. In our neighbouring countries, on the other hand, we are much further away from therapies and their reimbursement. If one were to consider funding such a therapy one would talk on an annual basis about an amount of more than 11,000 euros, for which the RIZIV does not intervene. On top of that, fewer kinesitherapy sessions are paid back for children with cerebral paralysis as of September because of an amendment to the law. This often means an additional cost of 5,000 euros per year for the families affected. I would have liked to have received an answer from the Minister to the following questions. Can intervention be provided for pending a possible reimbursement of the therapies for cerebral paralysis? Can the law be revised with regard to the reduction of the number of kinesitherapy sessions for children with cerebral paralysis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u78	Minister, in order to allow adults with brain infirm motors (CMIs) to benefit from large one-hour sessions of kinesitherapy without allocating any additional budget, the INAMI nomenclature for the sessions given to children with brain infirm motors has been reviewed. Since September 1, 2019, these major sessions have been limited by categorization. Today, we must observe a decrease in the sessions even for the most severe cases. Previously, BMI children had access to a large physiotherapy session a day, seven hours a week – a situation that was already insufficient for many of the more severely affected children. This new restriction has an undeniable impact on the rehabilitation of these children who have very important needs for physiotherapy. This inadequate rehabilitation has and will undoubtedly have consequences for their health. The consequences which will inevitably affect our social security which will have to face the additional costs of equipment, operations, reduced autonomy, etc. Minister, if I do believe that these physiotherapy sessions should benefit adult BMIs, I do not think this should be done at the expense of BMI children. Could you explain the reasons for this incomprehensible decision? On what basis has this limitation been decided? Is a further revision of the Royal Decree of 14 September 1984 establishing the nomenclature of health benefits in respect of compulsory insurance health care and allowances envisaged in order to allow disabled children with cerebral motors to benefit again from the long sessions of physiotherapy to which they were previously entitled?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u79	Mr President, Minister, on 10 July 2019 a KB was published that changes the reimbursement modalities for kinesi therapy for patients with cerebral parese or cerebral paralysis. There is a lot of concern in the area of care providers, patients and patients' parents about the possibility of reducing the number of reimbursements for young CP patients. Cerebral parese is a complex problem. The condition requires intensive and lifelong follow-up and guidance by a team of experts, in order to minimise the impact on the patient in terms of small and coarse motor skills. It does not seem immediately clear what the most appropriate therapy for this condition is, because healing is usually not possible and it is mainly about reducing the consequences. In the Netherlands, there is the Spastic Cerebral Parese Directive in Children to determine the most optimal treatment strategy. This Directive is based on the available robust scientific evidence and was drawn up in consultation with rehabilitation doctors, patient associations, physiotherapists, neurologists, paediatricians, logopedists and the medical knowledge centre. Madam Minister, do we have such a directive in our country? If not, what is your opinion on drafting it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u80	Mr President, a detailed answer is needed to provide all the questioners with the necessary information. With regard to vaccines, GSK Vaccines obtained a European marketing authorisation for Bexsero vaccine on 14 January 2013 through the centralised marketing authorisation procedure. This vaccine has been marketed in Belgium since March 2017. According to GSK, 112 units were sold to Belgian pharmacies from 17 March to 19 July 2019. Data on patients (number, age) are not available as such in Belgian databases. In addition, the number of Bexsero injections given depends on the age of the patient. The following figures are therefore deductions from sampling data from pharmacies. A total of approximately 48,000 patients have been vaccinated since the launch of the vaccine. In 70 per cent of cases, Bexsero is prescribed to children under six years of age with the highest incidence of the disease, representing approximately 32,000 young children. In 30% of cases, Bexsero is prescribed to young people over six years of age, or about 16,000 patients. In order for the type B meningococcal vaccine to be reimbursed, the firm responsible for this vaccine must submit an application for admission on the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products to the Commission for Reimbursement of Medicinal Products (CRM). The pharmaceutical firm GSK, which is responsible for the Bexsero vaccine in Belgium, submitted such a claim to CRM in 2018. As part of this file, CRM made a negative proposal by deciding not to include Bexsero in the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products. I followed the CRM proposal. The addition to the vaccination schedule depends on the Regions and the Communities. I invite you to contact them in order to obtain information on the procedures in force for the addition of vaccines in their respective vaccination schedules. Finally, I have just consulted the latest opinion of the Higher Health Council (SHC) dated 29 August 2019 on vaccination against meningococcal type B. The CSS does not recommend vaccination against this type B meningococcal disease as part of the basic vaccination schedule of the CSS for the following reasons: Currently, there is a low incidence of the disease. It is necessary to administer the vaccine early at the age of two months, at the same time as the routine vaccine because the first incidence peak occurs before six months. The high risk of fever is associated with this regimen, and the prophylactic administration of paracetamol is recommended. The inclusion of type B meningococcal vaccination requires a high degree of acceptance by parents and vaccinators, as this results in three injections each time with paracetamol in one visit; The CSS is concerned that the maximum coverage of other vaccine-preventable diseases under the basic vaccination schedule may decrease if three injections are given; The vaccine has a low cost-effectiveness, i.e., a high cost for a rare disease; There is no collective immunity, i.e., the vaccine is protein and has no effect on portage in adolescents. The decision I made in this case is in line with the CSS opinion of 29 August 2019. The Council also commits itself to regularly reassessing its position on the basis of available epidemiological data on effectiveness and portability. I am committed to following closely the evolution of the CSS recommendations with regard to vaccination against meningococcal type B. I come to Mrs Samyn's questions about cerebral paralysis. Appropriate treatment is also provided for in Belgium. There are, among other things, the cerebral paralysis reference centers that some hospitals have developed. There are also multidisciplinary brain paralysis reference centres that also have a diagnostic mission. It is true that they are working on referrals from the person investigating the child. That's done by Child and Family, a GP or a pediatrist. On the other hand, these reference centres are responsible for the periodic multidisciplinary follow-up of patients and for the coordination of the treatments indicated for a patient with cerebral paralysis. The centres can also apply or prescribe certain treatments that can be done elsewhere, for example when it comes to kinesi therapy or speech therapy in the vicinity of the patient's place of residence. For the treatment of the effects of cerebral paralysis, the nomenclature of medical benefits in kind, in addition to the kinesi therapy and logo therapy already mentioned, offers a number of possibilities. The treatment indicated for a patient may vary considerably from one patient to another. These include treatments with supportive braces, ortheses, plaster and splints, possible neurosurgery procedures and any necessary orthopaedic procedures. The latter are usually to muscles or tendons, but sometimes they also concern corrections of bone abnormalities. Treatment with medicines may also be possible. In some cases, injections into the muscles or salivary glands with botulinum toxin A may be considered. Patients with cerebral paralysis can also visit the general centres for locomotor and neurological rehabilitation. These are the so-called 950 centres, whose figures refer to the three first digits of the RIZIV identification number of the rehabilitation centres concerned. In these rehabilitation centres, patients up to the age of 18 years can follow multidisciplinary rehabilitation. If necessary, this can be done daily. The rehabilitation offer transferred to the Communities and the Regions by the Sixth State Reform also offers a number of possibilities. For example, some of the centres for outpatient rehabilitation also offer a multidisciplinary rehabilitation programme for children with cerebral paralysis. There is therefore also a wide and appropriate treatment offer in Belgium for children with this disease. I come to adapting treatments to the latest scientific guidelines and data. Treatment should always be based on evidence-based medecin. This should also be the starting point for any revision of treatment schedules. That's what happened for the reimbursement of kinesi therapy. Since 1 September 2019, Article 7 of the Nomenclature of Medical Benefits in kind has been amended concerning the reimbursement of long kinesitherapy sessions for persons suffering from cerebral paralysis occurring before their seventh birthday. This work took place in the context of a revision of the nomenclature by the RIZIV. They've taken a long time, and a lot of advice has been written about it. These specific benefits are now also accessible to persons over the age of 21. We've expanded the patient group. Before, it was up to 21, now it's extended to any age. For patients who are less than three years old, the benefits in kind may be attested once a day, i.e. every day of the year. There are no restrictions on this. For older patients, however, there is a limitation on the number of long sessions reimbursed, which means one-hour sessions, per calendar year. The number depends on the Gross Motor Function Classification System, a score of the patient, based on a scientifically based method. The greater the dysfunction, the more paid-back long sessions per calendar year are possible. For patients with the highest score in the Gross Motor Function Classification System, this means 150 sessions of at least 60 minutes. In addition to the number linked to that score, patients can receive 30 reimbursed long kinesi therapy sessions based on a report from a cerebral palsy reference centre. Of course, the usual sessions of 30 minutes on average are retained in the nomenclature. There is another exception for heavily dependent patients over three years of age. For that group, health insurance per year covers a daily physiotherapy session, half of which may last an hour, and that is lifelong. As usual, the adaptation of that measure will be monitored and evaluated by the relevant bodies within the RIZIV and, if necessary, adapted to better scientific studies or more recent scientific data. Those revisions really involve serious work; I always see when that starts and ends. In the Netherlands there is different work. The guidelines are probably drawn up in the same way, but the Netherlands does not know RIZIV, but eight individual health insurance companies. The mechanism in the Netherlands is different, as these eight health insurers do not review the directives separately. There must be a single directive on which health insurance companies can rely for the reimbursement or non-reimbursement of treatment. However, you know that in the Netherlands there are considerable differences between the different health insurers in terms of reimbursement of treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u81	Thank you, Mrs. De Block. For replicas, try to be short enough because time is moving forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u82	Minister, thank you for your additional information and clarification. Could you just tell me whether the opinion given by the Higher Council of Health follows a new study and therefore new results or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u83	I can have the advice on which it has been based looked up for you. That's public advice. We can send it to the chairman of the committee and it can be delivered to you. We can give it to you. That said, we get so many opinions. But if a notice was given on August 29, 2019, normally, it must take into account the studies already published, otherwise there is no point in giving an opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u84	Thank you for sending me this document.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u85	Madam Minister, several therapies are paid back, but this may not be communicated very well to the parents in question. It is not an isolated case, it is an isolated case. Some people even want to move to the Netherlands, because the therapy is refunded there. I've heard your views on that. Over the past few weeks we have noticed how socially moved Flanders is, with the various SMS and benefit actions. Social fabric is extremely important in society, but the government has a very important task to take care of those in need and the most vulnerable in our society. It is not normal for people who both go out to work and make a good living to organize a benefit to give their child all the opportunities it deserves. Sometimes it is even more drastic and they even consider going to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u86	A lack of information is a matter, but that is the responsibility of the sickness funds. Those texts shall be communicated and communicated. I assume it's complicated for people to extrapolate to their personal situation, but also the physiotherapists and health insurance funds are aware of that. Excuse me, but everyone has to take responsibility for this. If there are any misunderstandings about this, they must be resolved. Apparently there are misunderstandings, because you don't think the children will be treated anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u87	No, I do not think that the children will be treated anymore, but that certain techniques or treatments are not yet known to us and will not be reimbursed. I refer to newspaper articles from the last few weeks and months. Certain treatments are not reimbursed or too little, and their costs are enormous. Then there is some miscommunication and disinformation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u88	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. But I didn't really get the answer to the question I asked. She seemed very clear to me. It was a question of whether we were going to go back to the physiotherapy sessions covered before. You have given a whole series of explanations related to a whole series of scientific studies, but the question asked is in relation to the experiences of people who today no longer have for their children a refund for recognized long-term sessions. The concern is really there. The question was whether a new revision was possible or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u89	The revision that has been made is budget neutral, but it is based on scientific studies. It seemed that there was the possibility of expanding the group of patients after 21 years as well. But for children, as I told you, there are differences depending on the severity of cerebral infirmity, or age (before or after 3 years). A lot of changes have been made. But for those who suffer from more serious harm, this remains possible every day. I can give you the answer. It's a little complicated, I admit. But this has been done according to the scientific data available to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u90	It is therefore important to know the new classifications and nomenclatures so that the persons concerned can check whether they are penalized in relation to the old provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic022x.u91	Madam Minister, I am certainly in favour of encouraging treatments based on scientific evidence, but at the same time we must continue to adopt an open attitude towards new treatment options and encourage continuous and thorough consultation between the reference centres so that they can exchange experiences. It is also important to actively involve patient associations so that there is direct communication with them.
