ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that the discussion of point 8 be inserted after the discussion of points 11 and 12: 8. the draft law amending the Act of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, the Act of 17 June 2016 on concessions and the Law of 13 August 2011 on public procurement and certain works, supply and service contracts in the field of defence and security, Nos 3538/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that you insert the discussion of item 8 after the discussion of items 11 and 12: 8. Bill amending the Law of 17 June 2016 on Government Procurement, the Law of 17 June 2016 on Concession Contracts and the Law of 13 August 2011 on Government Procurement and Certain Contracts for Construction, Supply and Services in the Fields of Defence and Security, Nos. 3538/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: 19. the motion for a resolution on the use of big data in health care, No. 3685/1 This proposal was adopted by the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions under Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure. 20. the bill (Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Olivier Maingain, Eric Van Rompuy and Benoît Dispa) introducing a provisional digital service tax (DDB) on the revenue from the supply of certain digital services by the "digital giants," No. 3485/1. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this proposal be rejected. 21. the bill (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) amending the coordinated laws of the Council of State in order to grant associations a right of appeal in defence of collective interests, No. 465/1. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this proposal be rejected. 22. the legislative proposal (Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Mr Emir Kir, Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Mr Nawal Ben Hamou, Mr Eric Thiébaut) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, and introducing a ban on the detention of unaccompanied or unaccompanied minors, Nos 3045/1 to 4. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this proposal be rejected. 23. - the draft law on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, Nos 3554/1 to 12. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Rita Bellens) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance in order to provide a regulatory framework for authorised authors, Nos 3583/1 and 2. 24. the proposal (Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Karin Temmerman, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Olivier Maingain, Mr Francis Delpérée and Mr Marco Van Hees) to revise Article 7a of the Constitution in order to anchor climate objectives and principles, Nos 3642/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: 19. the motion for a resolution on the use of big data in the health sector, No 3685/1. This proposal was adopted by the Science and Technology Advisory Committee under Art. 76 of the Regulation. 20. The bill (Ms Vanessa Matz, MM. Olivier Maingain, Eric Van Rompuy and Benoît Dispa) on the creation of a provisional tax (TSN) on the products generated by certain activities of digital giants, No 3485/1. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this proposal. 21. the proposed law (MM. Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet and Gilles Vanden Burre) amending the coordinated laws on the Council of State with a view to granting associations the right to initiate a collective action, No. 465/1. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this proposal. 22. the bill (Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Mr. Emir Kir, Mrs. Gwenaëlle Grovonius and Nawal Ben Hamou, Mr. Eric Thiébaut) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens and prohibiting the confinement of unaccompanied minors, Nos. 3045/1 to 4. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this proposal. 23. - the draft law on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, Nos. 3554/1 to 12. - the bill (Ms. Rita Bellens) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to provide a regulatory framework for mandated policyholders, Nos. 3583/1 and 2. 24. the proposal (Ms. Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet, Karin Temmerman, MM. Ahmed Laaouej, Olivier Maingain, Francis Delperée and Marco Van Hees) to review Article 7bis of the Constitution in order to anchor the climate objectives and principles, Nos. 3642/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mrs Kitir has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u3	Mr President, for the legislative proposal No. We have tabled amendments on the job deal, on which we would like to ask the Council of State's opinion. In the summer agreement agreements were made and fortunately the worst is no longer in place, namely the reduction of unemployment benefits, but also the proposal before us today has a lot of negative consequences for workers. Think of the minimum wage for young people, which will ensure that young people will all start with less social rights, even if this government claims not to. Also think of the further extension of the training clause, especially in the context of bottleneck occupations. For these reasons, Mr President, we have amendments which we would like to submit to the Council of State for its opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u4	Mrs Kitir, I see that your question is supported by a sufficient number of Members. I therefore accept your question. I shall therefore take up this question and ask myself for the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u5	Mr President, it can be assumed that Mrs Kitir's request is supported by sufficient members, but within what period of time will you ask for the opinion? After all, that is important to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u6	That is my next point. You know that one last plenary session will take place on 25 April. I have not read the points you have tabled, but I suggest that we take the golden middle course again, as we have done in a recent past. I will therefore ask the Council of State for an ordinary opinion, i.e. stricto sensu within the normal period, but with the request to give it to us in good time so that we can deal with it. That is what we have done in the past. Our relations with the Council of State are good enough to ask for this opinion to reach us in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u7	Mr President, I understand that Mrs Kitir is asking for the opinion of the Council of State, but I do not know who supports this question. Are there voices or signatures? Can you count on 50 members? Well, that's the usual way of doing things, isn't it? Excuse me for asking for that information, but that is my right, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u8	That is entirely your right, Mrs Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u9	Mr President, I understand Mrs Kitir's request. On this social issue of the deal jobs, there is something to drink and eat. However, there are potentially positive elements that it is important to achieve. I am thinking in particular of training and net compensation for young people's wages. That is why I will not support the request for referral to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u10	Is anyone still asking for the floor on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u11	Mr President, I hope that this request will be voted on by name. Indeed, I do not have the impression that 50 members are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u12	Mr Clarinval, this type of vote is normally taken by sitting and lifted, but since you ask for it, we can proceed to a nominative vote. For technical reasons, I would ask you to wait a moment. Those who feel that an opinion should be requested from the Council of State are voting in favour. Everyone else is voting against. At least 50 Members must vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u13	Consequently, no opinion will be requested from the Council of State. Accordingly, the opinion of the Council of State will not be sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u14	I have received amendments to the draft law on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 3554/12. I have received amendments to the draft law on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 3554/12. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee for the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). We have agreed that the meeting of the Committee on the Interior will take place after the end of the oral questions in the Father Damian room. After discussing these amendments in committee, the draft law will be discussed in plenary today. The discussion of the draft will continue in plenary, after consideration of these amendments in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Steven Vandeput, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Benoît Dispa and Georges Gilkinet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr David Clarinval) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to lift the penalty for failing to comply with the condition relating to the remuneration of the manager, No. 2920/1. I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Ahmed Laaouej et Frédéric Daerden, M. Luk Van Biesen, Mme Griet Smaers, MM. Steven Vandeput, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Dispa and Georges Gilkinet, Ms Meyrem Almaci and Mr David Clarinval) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 abolishing the penalty in the event of non-compliance with the condition of the amount of executive remuneration, No. 2920/1 [[.]] In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Finance and Budget Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Finance and the Budget (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u15	Mr President, we have tabled an order motion, which everyone here will receive. I think even parties that are against staffing can listen! Two days ago, a committee meeting was held at which it was decided not to give an additional contribution to the Labour Party or PVDA, which in itself is totally undemocratic. After all, we have won the votes. It is very hard to see that the N-VA and Open Vld are completely opposed. However, the N-VA has more than enough money. After all, that party sleeps at EUR 37 million. However, it has a problem with the fact that a party such as the Labour Party gets a small amount of money. She may be afraid because the PVDA is rising and she doesn't want us to have enough money to campaign. I would like to inform the N-VAs immediately that we will be campaigning anyway. We're not afraid of you. However, we have a right to this money. Ladies and gentlemen, for me this was a discovery, there are not only Members voting in this committee. There are experts, too. And it was they who turned the vote against the PTB's allocation. The very simple question we ask today on a point of order is whether the PTB can receive its variable portion of the staffing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure oblige me to read out the order of business of Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees. Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. In view of the decision of 26 March 2019 in the "Committee on Control of Election Expenditure and the Accounting of Political Parties', the following order of order is made:"In view of the decision of 26 March 2019 in the "Committee on Auditing of Election Expenditure and the Accounting of Political Parties' not to grant the PVDA part of the variable part of its contribution; - having regard to the opinion of the chairman of the committee that, in this particular case, the final decision on the granting of the grant is not part of the plenary session; - having regard to the fact that the result of the vote in committee (7 against 5, 4 abstentions) is not at all representative of the composition of the Chamber of Representatives because only the members of the N-VA and Open Vld voted against granting the full dot while the members of the Committee of the CD&V, PS, sp.a. and cdH voted in favour of the full allocation and the members of the MR abstained; - having regard to the fact that small parties do not have the right to vote in committee and that Ecolo-Green has not been able to take a decision on the grounds of absence; - having regard to the decisive vote of two politically appointed experts, - having regard to the strikingly sharp communication of several members at several meetings of the 'Commission for the Control of Elections and the Accounting of Political Parties': 'a shameful charade', 'a sad spectacle', 'discrimination of some parties', 'an unjust situation', 'a democratic rule of law unworthy'; - having regard to the law on the financing of political parties of 4 July 1989, which expressly states that the Chamber of Representatives grants the funding to the political parties; - having regard to the law on the financing of political parties of 4 July 1989, which sets out the powers of the 'Commission for the Control of Elections and the Accounting of Political Parties'; - having regard to the fact that that list does not include the competence of the provision and the calculation of the amount, and that the Audit Board therefore has no decision-making power in the matter of the remuneration of the PVDA; - having regard to the fact that the Council of State has repeatedly indicted 'the imperfection of legal protection' in the 'Commission for the Control of Election Expenditure and the Accounting of Political Parties'; - having regard to the comprehensively reasoned opinion of the Court's legal services of 2015, which states that the PVDA is entitled to a donation in which the votes obtained by the PVDA must be taken into account throughout the country for the determination of the amount; - having regard to the fact that the PVDA is nothing other than the PTB, and vice versa, with letters referring in two country languages to the same party with a single head office, a single head office, a single programme, a single study service, one accounting, etc.; - having regard to the judgment of the Brussels Court of First Instance in the Défi case in a case similar to that of the PVDA; - having regard to the fact that the amount for the payment of the full amount to the PVDA has already been entered in the budget of the Chamber in recent years; - having regard to the communication of the then majority parties during the summer holidays 2017 that the PVDA gets 'equal' in the party financing file; - having regard to the imminent dissolution of the Chamber, The authors of this motion ask the Chamber to give its opinion in full power in plenary, as should be the case in a democratic rule of law. They ask the plenary to vote on a dot in which the votes obtained by the PVDA are taken into account throughout the country for the determination of the amount." "- Having regard to the decision of 26 March 2019 taken in the 'Committee on Electoral Expenditure Control and Political Party Accounting' not to allocate to the PTB part of the variable part of its allocation; - having regard to the position of the chairman of the committee that, in this specific case, it is not for the plenary to take the final decision on the allocation of the allocation; - in view of the fact that the result of the vote in committee (7 to 5, 4 abstentions) is absolutely not representative of the composition of the House of Representatives since only the N-VA and Open Vld members of the committee voted against the granting of the full allocation while the CD&V, PS, sp.a and cdH members of the committee voted in favour of the full allocation and the MR members of the committee abstained; - in view of the fact that small parties have no right to vote in committee and that Ecolo-Groen has also not had the opportunity to speak because of his absence; - having regard to the casting vote of two experts who have been the subject of a political appointment; - having regard to the particularly virulent communication of various members during several meetings of the Committee on the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties: 'a scandalous comedy', 'a sad spectacle', 'a discrimination on the part of a few parties', 'an unfair situation', 'indignation of a democratic State governed by the rule of law'; - having regard to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties of 4 July 1989, which expressly provides that the House of Representatives shall grant political parties the allocation; - having regard to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties of 4 July 1989, which limits the powers of the Committee on the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties; - in view of the fact that the competence to fix and calculate the allocation is not included in this list and that the Supervisory Board therefore has no decision-making power with regard to the allocation of the PTB; - in view of the fact that the Council of State has already repeatedly denounced the 'imperfection of legal protection' within the 'Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties'; - having regard to the opinion of the Legal Services of the 2015 Chamber, which is reasoned in detail, stating that the PTB is entitled to an allocation and that the votes obtained by the PTB throughout the country must be taken into account in determining the allocation; - since the PTB is nothing other than the PVDA and vice versa, these acronyms refer, in both languages of the country, to the same party with a single leadership, a single headquarters, a single programme, a single study service, a single accountancy, etc.; - having regard to the decision of the Brussels Court of First Instance in the Défi case, a case comparable to that of the PTB; - since the amount corresponding to the allocation of the full allocation to the PTB has already been included in the House's budget in previous years; - having regard to the communication made by the parties of the former majority during the summer holidays 2017, according to which the PTB obtained 'gain' in the party's funding file; - in view of the imminent dissolution of the House; the proposers of this motion request the House to speak in plenary session on the basis of its full powers, as it is in a democratic State governed by the rule of law. They ask the plenary to vote on an allocation based on the principle that the votes obtained by the PTB throughout the country will be taken into account in determining the allocation." I hereby declare the order motion admissible. I am submitting a proposal to this House. I believe that if the Chamber wishes to give its opinion on this matter, it should have a document showing our discussion in the Audit Committee on the financing of the parties last Tuesday. I propose that this motion on the implementation of the supplementary staffing for the PTB – and I assume that it also applies to the PP – be placed on the agenda next week. In this way we will first have a document and we will be able to give our opinion on the substance of the matter next week. Are there any objections to this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u17	Mr President, I want to share two points of reflection. Just before the plenary, the services informed us that there was going to be a report and that this report should be submitted to the plenary. The services have thus informed us of the need for a vote in plenary. You point out that it is contrary to what you, as Speaker of the House and Speaker of this committee, said two days ago in committee. All members of the committee present may testify to this. You said in a very positive way: "It will not go into plenary". You will understand then that we have this very strong impression of being driven by boat for four and a half years. With regard to access to information, the report of the Chamber's Legal Service has already been distributed. On four occasions, there were motions and debates. It seems to me that all the cards are on the table to be able to vote, especially since there has already been a political vote in committee. Experts are not present today. I think everyone is ready to vote to see if the PTB is entitled to its staffing. After four and a half years, is it not time to stop this debate, to put the cards on the table one last time? All the elements are here. I would point out that a court decision clearly indicates that there are no conditions in the Regulations for endowments today to be present on both sides of the linguistic border. That's not true! The Chamber's legal service is in the same direction. The discussions have already taken place several times. Is it not time, ladies and gentlemen, to simply move on to a vote in plenary? I am asking for the opinion in this Chamber. It seems to me that having this debate today is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u18	Mr Hedebouw, three elements of reply. Firstly, you are absolutely right that it has been a long time. That's the fact as she is. Secondly, as far as my own position is concerned, as I included it at the committee meeting last Tuesday and as it will be in the report, I have based myself on the opinions I have received on this matter. If I get a different advice today, I will not be stubbornly persevering. That is not an expression of a personal opinion either, but then I will follow that advice. If it is only now that it is now clear that it is up to the whole Chamber to speak on this matter, it will be so, but we are going to do so on the basis of a document, so that everyone can express their views with knowledge, including those who were not present in committee, as happens with any proposal and any draft: we are based on a report from the committee. As far as the experts are concerned, they are plenipotentiary members of this committee. This is a decision that the House itself took in the previous legislature. So that's the law. We are not going to talk about the function and role of these experts. We are going to discuss the substance of the right you have or do not have to do so. My proposal is to put this on the agenda next week. I ask the House's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u19	Mr President, I do not think it is the intention to re-examine the committee's debate here last Tuesday. That control committee has been given tasks by law, including decisions on the financing of political parties. We took a vote last Tuesday. I think it went well. As chairman of the committee, you were not allowed to vote. After that, you said that, in view of the outcome of the vote, this dossier did not have to go to plenary. There has been no response from any of the members of the Audit Committee. My question is therefore on the basis of which article of the statutes of the supervisory committee we should re-examine this debate, in a gremium which I do not think has been given that task by law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u20	I would suggest, Mrs De Coninck, that we do not have to discuss this issue. I stand by my proposal to move the debate on all the relevant documents, including the opinion that the final decision on the financing of political parties should be taken by the Chamber to next week. I stand by my proposal that next week should be dealt with as a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u21	Mr President, I would like to raise two points. A first point is a very important political fact. You have just noticed that the N-VA is simply afraid to discuss this in plenary. For this reason, the N-VA argues against a plenary session. Members of the N-VA, if you want to enter into the discussion, just allow it. A decision has been taken by a small committee with four experts, but here, in plenary, a democratic debate can take place. However, you do not want to have that discussion. You even argue and lobby the President of the Chamber against a plenary session. It is a disgrace from a democratic point of view.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u23	No, Mr Jambon, that is democracy. You want to silence our party by denying her money. That's outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u24	Mr Hedebouw, excuse my interruption, but the views are well known. I would ask the Court's opinion to deal with this point next week so that we have the texts at our disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u25	Mr President, I had two elements. You have taken a stand. You must therefore answer the Member who asked a question. The colleague of the N-VA has asked what the elements are. As President, you propose that there should be a debate in plenary. Mr President, I would like you to confirm that there will be a vote on the allocation of the PTB in the plenary next week, not a debate on a report whose interpretation remains undecided. The question is very simple: can the PTB receive its dues? Are you undertaking to put this vote on the agenda for next week's sitting?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u26	The opinions I have so far made it clear that a decision must be taken in plenary. Does everyone agree that we will deal with this next week? [[Assent]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u27	Mr President, the question of precisely where this competence lies must be clarified. According to the law on the financing of political parties, this power lies with the Audit Board, which is composed each time during the first session of a legislature. The experts have been added. It's all laid down by law. This was approved at our first session in October 2014. We only agree with the debate on this subject in plenary if it is possible under the statutes and under the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u28	That is all the more reason to move this issue to next week's agenda. By then, we will receive an opinion from the Legal Service. The subject will first be discussed in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u29	We're not gonna get screwed! There are two things...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u30	Mr President, it seems to me that you have proposed that the House take a decision. We have decided, unless some want a vote, but it seems to me that there was a broad consensus to deal with this issue next week. It's over!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u31	This issue will be dealt with next week. Mr. Hedebouw, you'll have time to come back next week. We shall now turn to the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u32	Prime Minister, the three trade unions voted on Tuesday on the draft interprofessional agreement for the period 2019-2020. This means de facto that there is no IPA approved and binding for that period. However, the social partners have been given time and space to reach an agreement. So now it is up to politics to take responsibility. Your outgoing government in current affairs may ask for a mandate from Parliament for this. As I said here two weeks ago, the N-VA is prepared to take its responsibility in Parliament to support the working deal of the Michael I government and to secure the economic recovery in our country. N-VA wants to support your minority government in approving the pay margin of 1.1 % above the index. There is scope for this, for example through the Michel I government's policy. We also want to support the full use of the wealth envelope, but we would ask that it be for the benefit of those who need it most. I am talking about the lowest pensions and the lowest benefits for disabled people. By the way, that was already agreed in the Summer Agreement. We also, of course, ask once again and with great emphasis that your minority government finally implement the other agreements made under Michel I. Quite specifically, this means that your Minister for Work Kris Peeters must now finally publish the approved KBs on raising the boarding age for the SWT and runways. It was already incomprehensible and actually unacceptable that they have been lying in the drawer for a few months to give the social partners the opportunity to deviate from this, to annoyance and frustration of your own coalition partner Open Vld and your own MR Minister Bacquelaine. Since Tuesday, however, that last bad excuse has also been removed. There really is no reason to wait another day to publish those KBs. To our surprise, however, the opposite is true. You, together with the VBO, asked the government yesterday after the consultation whether they would like to support the easing of the bridge pension and runways. Sorry, it can't get much more absurd and embarrassing. What exactly does your government intend to do in the next few days? I am curious about your answer and I am actually even more curious about Mr Lachaert's question and your answer to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u33	Mr Prime Minister, over the last few days we have seen a lot of studies on our labour market. There was a first study by Professor Baert. Now there's a study from Randstad. This morning we read that the social secretariats are also looking at what results our government can produce. The government can indeed produce a positive result in terms of jobs. That's an analysis being made. Twenty-four thousand jobs have been added. These are largely full-time jobs or at least four fifths for an indefinite duration. That is in itself a positive bilan, but of course there is work to be done. That's what it's about, of course. In our coalition agreement there were a number of things that were not implemented today. A different career model had to be created which would take less account of seniority and age. The question was asked to the Group of Ten to give an opinion on it, a question repeated several years ago. Also for the SWT and the runways a clear route was fixed in the coalition agreement. For the SWT restructuring in 2017, we had to have reached the age of 60 years. That didn't happen. The overall bilan is positive, but if we really want to move forward in labour market policy in our country, then politics must take back its primacy in this area and it must also dare to take decisions. Under Michel I, two KBs were indeed approved in the Council of Ministers. We had that discussion here a few weeks ago. In the meantime, we have seen IPA collapsed and shot down by the socialist union. The question is what happens next. With a government in current affairs and therefore not in full competence, one cannot ignore the need for a parliamentary debate on this issue. What is the intention for the ABVV? We hear that pressure is now being put on the ABVV to support a large part of the story. What is your intention in the IPA story for the coming period?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a genuine political hostage taking of the interprofessional agreement (IPA) by the FGTB. A month ago, in this same forum, I would recall that the MR would fully support the IPA concluded by the Group of 10. I was pleased that the social dialogue was still working in that country and that it was working well. As a reminder: an increase in non-indexed wages of 1.1%, an increase in minimum wages of EUR 1 billion for the welfare envelope, i.e. an increase in the lowest allowances, small pensions, support for single-parent families, employability measures (with overtime, travel costs), training measures, pre-pension measures; in short, a package of social and purchasing power measures. A month later, the FGTB, whose political agenda is no longer to be demonstrated, took the workers hostage and blocked the AIP. The silence of the PS is also calling today in this regard. We saw Mr Vertenueil wandering around the corridors of Parliament near the socialist offices. It's a direct testimony. That's the truth. The political agenda of the FGTB takes precedence over the defence of workers. He was in the hallway. It's random and it was right in front of your door! It's total chance! I hope he signed the lobbies register. Be careful! [[Laughs]] Mr President, there are only a few hours left at the FGTB to be consistent. She has accepted this proposal from the Group of 10 and we therefore call for her sense of responsibility by unblocking one billion of the welfare envelope for the weakest of us. Mr President, I will have only one question: what are the results of the mediation initiated by the government and the timing of this exit from crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, the competitiveness of companies, the purchasing power of the people who work and the social peace are crucial to our future. It is clear that social dialogue was crucial in the government agreement of the Michael I Government. I am pleased that in this legislature it was possible to approve an IPA two years ago and then fully implement it. It was now the second time that the social partners have negotiated an IPA. One month ago, we understood that the preliminary agreement had been approved by the leaders of the Group of Ten, including the FGTB and the ABBV. A deadline of one month was provided for the consultation of the grassroots. Two days ago we took note of the various official positions of the members of the Group of Ten. So we learned, two days ago, that two parties around the table did not approve of this draft interprofessional agreement. Together with the Ministers for Social Affairs and Employment, we immediately convened a meeting of the Group of 10 in order to comply with the law, since it provides for the possibility for the government to mediate. This has been done in due course, in line with what Parliament has supported. We proposed a salary margin of 1.1%. The mediation was rejected by the FGTB and the ABVV. Which brings us to the procedure described a month ago. It is possible for the government, even for a government in current cases, to take a royal decision on the pay margin of 1.1 %. There are two important elements. Firstly, whether or not there will be a unanimous opinion from the social partners on the welfare envelope? There is still some doubt about that question at the moment. There is indeed an important responsibility in the hands of the FGTB and the BBBV. Without a clear signal and a clear choice of the social partners, there is a problem and a substantial difficulty, which contradicts the will of the broad majority within Parliament to enable and release the wealth envelope for those for whom the envelope is the most important. Finally, there are collective agreements for which unanimous opinions are required in the National Labour Council. We therefore look forward to hearing the nature of the opinions that will be delivered, probably in the next few days. I remain exactly in the procedure that was described a month ago. First, with respect to the loonmarge, it would be possible for the government to validate this wage standard. Secondly, for the welfare package, we must examine the formal proposals to be submitted to the National Labour Council. Thirdly, with regard to the CTCs, whose binding character must be determined automatically if a unanimous opinion is given, we will see what the possibilities are. I had a brief conversation today with the leader of the FGTB. I understand that they will have an important internal meeting tomorrow to determine their position and I hope that we will have more clarity in the course of next week. In short, we are trying to stay coherent. The social calm, the competitiveness of companies, the margin of pay and the purchasing power of the people who work are particularly important. We hope that we will have more clarity in the next few days. In any case, in current cases, the government is prepared to accept its responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u36	Prime Minister, if you are a little consistent with your earlier statements and with more than four years of Michel I policy, then you are now carrying out what was decided between the summer of 2018 and the end of November with the government in current cases. You will simply publish the royal decrees and come to Parliament, and there will certainly be a majority for it to give technical implementation to the 1996 law and to confirm the wage standard. The labour market needs these structural reforms. Not only does Parliament know this, but the experts have also published this with great conviction and clarity over the last few days. It is time for politics to assume its responsibilities, take the decisions that are necessary and no longer slave to the debacle of the Group of Ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u37	Prime Minister, the problem is not the implementation of the big whole of IPA when it comes to the wage standard. We agree that wages in our country should increase for the people who work and that the envelope for that part should be fully used. We also agree that we are increasing the welfare envelope for the benefits of the sick and pensioners and that the proposed budget of EUR 700 million is being used. This is not the subject of discussion. Mr Spoorsen has just said that the Group of Ten is going to replace those politically elected, who will re-enlist on 26 May. That's a problem, it's a concept error in the system. Specialists will continue to appeal to us that we do not reform enough in our country to get enough people working. That is the commitment, not just of this dossier, but in general. Labour market policy must be implemented by policy-makers and not by people who have not been elected, which means that we must have this kind of debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u38	Prime Minister, we sincerely hope that the steps taken will allow the FGTB to have a break, to change its position and to return to the original agreement. If, unfortunately, this was not the case, we ask that the government in day-to-day affairs move forward, take on its responsibilities and conclude this interprofessional agreement, even if the FGTB does not agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u39	Minister, in 2010 a book by Jan Denys was published containing the pitfalls of the labour market in this country. Recently, he recreated that analysis. In his own words, that was a depressing occupation. Last week he presented the results in a study by Randstad, with the significant title "The sadness of the Belgian labour market." This study is cutting off the Belgian labour market policy. The conclusion is: "The traditional pain points of the Belgian labour market cannot be solved. All pain points identified in 2010 still exist in 2019. The gap with the rest of Europe will not be closed. Sometimes the gap is even worse. In addition, new pain points are emerging." The author himself was surprised that the balance was so pronouncedly negative. That is a very painful conclusion for a Michael administration, which, as it were, has made its existence a cause for economic and social recovery. It even put the Community into the freezer. And let us just say that Community is one of those pitfalls. We are the country with the greatest regional disparities in unemployment. The annual transfers of billions from Flanders to Wallonia are not so effective, because the study clearly shows that the gap between the regions is still growing; or, as Jan Denys put it today in De Morgen, "Our country continues to drift apart. You can ask yourself: do we do the right thing the right way?" That is exactly my question to you today, Minister. Isn't it time to turn the wheel? Is it not time to take a different approach, since we are at the end of the legislature, for example, to think of more powers for the regions? What do you think should happen so that in ten years' time we do not have to write another bad report?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u40	Mr Pas, last week the annual report of the National Employment Service was presented, but you did not ask any questions about it, probably because it was too positive; I will come back to that. I received Randstad's study last Tuesday night. According to this study, all good things are due to the economic situation and to companies, while the bad things are due to the insufficient efforts of our country's governments. I've seen studies like this before. The first thing I want to underline is that the Randstad study runs until 2017. You quote from a study in 2019, but it is already two years behind, as the study only uses figures until 2017. I can understand that, but it does mean that it does not include, for example, the recent figures of the RVA or the National Bank. As with any study, the experts of the FPS Employment have been asked to look at the Randstad study and to provide me with the findings as soon as possible. Allow me to highlight two concrete elements of this study. The Randstad study calls the low proportion of flexible and atypical work a serious pain. For Randstad I can understand that, but is it the intention that we achieve much more night work and temporary jobs? Is that really a goal to be pursued, is that really a bottleneck? You can argue that we may need to do so in order to boost the employment rate. Allow me to give you Sweden as an example, which has about as much atypical work as our country and at the same time scores better in the level of activity. Another pain point, according to Randstad, is that the Belgian labour market is locked up because of the high level of employment in the public sector. However, according to the OECD figures, we are on average in this respect. Moreover, employment in the public sector in Belgium has fallen. If Randstad calls that a pain point, then that is not correct or that study does not take sufficient account of the data. The unemployment rate in Belgium is currently 5.8 %, while that rate was 8.6 % at the start of the legislature. Unemployment expenditure fell by 2.5%. The number of SWTs, some of which make a big point, fell by 40% during the current legislature. Fifty-five-plus-five find more work. I therefore believe that other studies should also be taken into account. The annual report of the RVA says that 55% of newly created jobs in recent years are due to the measures taken by the federal government. That has also been announced, but you did not ask any questions about it. No Member of this House has, moreover, welcomed that good result. Some knew, some didn't know and some didn't want to know. Mr President, I will conclude. The FOD WASO will examine the study. I have invited Mr Jan Denys, athletic as I am, to speak about this as soon as possible. I hope that all those who have some expertise in the labour market will read the study and, secondly, I agree that there are a number of problems that are completely wrong. The following studies, including those from Randstad, should, as you ask, take into account a number of elements and rightly underline the positive aspects. Let's stop discussing the number of SWT'ers; that record is turned grey and the number of SWT'ers is 40 % lower by the way. Moreover, there is no question of limiting unemployment over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u41	Minister, you referred to other studies, including those of VIVES. I can recommend a very interesting study by VIVES on the transfers. All the studies and all the objective figures show that progress has been made. No one denies that, not even Randstad's study. The essence is that we are still behind in Europe today. All Michel I parties, who are so euphoric about job growth and economic growth, must be aware that we are lagging behind in Europe in terms of job creation and economic growth. With us that is the lowest in Europe. We're not catching up, and that's the biggest pain point you haven't gone through. The analysis of all pain points in a European context makes it painfully clear that Belgium has not made real progress in any area of the labour market. The fact that the Michael administration was unable to reverse the tide was not only the conclusion of the study. You are clearly not to be expected to change the way we do things. I did not receive an answer to my fundamental question. It is therefore quite clear that there is no need for additional autonomy to put things in order, even if it is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u42	Mr President, Minister of Finance, throughout the legislature, with several colleagues in the Finance Committee, I have questioned and questioned your predecessor, Mr. Van Overtveldt on the means that the government had or was not providing for the fight against tax fraud, tax justice and the proper functioning of the FPS Finances. Your predecessor's answers were always reassuring, in fact falsely, because they were immediately contradicted by the comments, feelings and appreciations of the field officers whom we met regularly, particularly in this Parliament. These falsely reassuring answers are today totally contradicted by a full-scale survey carried out by the National Union of Public Services (UNSP) which has just issued a newsletter – I would say a donkey's hat, a note of 2/10 – to the government, but above all which has just taken stock of the legislature with regard to the management of the FPS Finances. Objectively, this record is disastrous. There are no other words. According to 75% of the officers interviewed (the survey covers 5,000 people), the quality of service provided by the FPS Finances has deteriorated. For 81% of agents, the fight against tax fraud has also deteriorated. In addition, 58% of staff say they would no longer apply for FPS Finance under current conditions and 62% would not advise a relative to do so. Finally, 91% of agents do not feel supported by the department's top management. These figures speak for themselves. What a waste! What a desolation when one remembers the prestige that was that of the Ministry of Finance last century...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u43	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u44	It was long before you, Mr. Reynders! I was rather thinking of Mr Maystadt, who was probably the last finance minister appreciated by the agents of the department. It was a department of authority; it is now a disaster department. This is what emerges from this survey. We are tempted to establish a parallel with the state of justice which is under the same conditions of dysfunction. Minister, the question I want to ask you is the following. In what condition will you leave the FPS Finance to your successor? You have little time to act, but do you at least intend to try to speed up the recruitment of agents that was announced by the end of last year? Will you take in extremis some steps, if only to establish the situation of your department so that your successor can meet the challenges? This is in any case a very strong expectation of FPS Finance officers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u45	Mr Minister, it seems from an internal survey that officials are complaining about a staff shortage in the administration of the FPS Finance. They are talking not only about a shortage of staff, but also about a heavy workload. The officials also say that the pressure on labour and the shortage of staff means that they can no longer guarantee the provision of services to citizens and that they cannot fight tax fraud in the way they want. I read in the survey that seven out of ten officials feel that they cannot carry out their duties properly. That's quite a lot, I think. Minister, we fully agree with the policy pursued to promote more digitisation, including in the FPS Finance. We are also in favour of more data mining in order to achieve simplified taxes and declarations. We are also in favour of greater use being made of modern services, which the citizens are also asking for. Digitisation and modern services are beneficial to the fight against tax fraud. Data mining does indeed increase the chances of getting caught, and then the right control capacity can be used. But, of course, there must be sufficient staff to carry out the basic tasks of a well-functioning service. Hence my questions, Minister. First of all, what is your view on the FPS Finance Internal Survey? Do you find the complaints justified, or do you not find them justified? Secondly, what do you think of the path to digitalisation? Everything going according to plan? Does it need backup? Thirdly, is there sufficient commitment to the internal retraining of staff with a view to digitisation and the desired policies in the FPS Finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u46	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, I will not speak about the last century, I will speak about this Parliament. Since the beginning of the legislature, public services have been considered a variable for budgetary adjustment. Your government has reduced endowments to public services, has no longer replaced pensioners, has planed their entitlements. This is true in most departments, particularly at the level of finance, where the malaise is more than perceptible. As my colleagues have mentioned, a more than representative survey was conducted, since a quarter of the staff spoke. It shows that 91% of them no longer have confidence in their management, that 75% say that the quality of services to citizens has deteriorated, that more than 60% would not advise a loved one to apply for the service of finance. That's what I'm talking about. Their working conditions are very poor. And we're talking about agents that collect taxes, fight tax fraud, finance public policies; in short, without them, the state no longer turns. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, my question is simple: what are you answering these thousands of agents? Where are the hundreds of agents to be recruited for finance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. It is true that in February 2019 the UNSP carried out a survey via its website, aimed at finance staff. There were 5,000 answers. Of course, the representativeness of this survey must be seen. The FPS Finance also organizes a survey of its staff. He does it every two years. More than 50% of the workforce responded. It is noted that the results for 2018 are slightly better than those for 2016. Mr Dispa, you say that the UNSP explains that 75% of finance officers believe that the quality of services to citizens has deteriorated. I'm trying to use existing data. For example, in taxation, the latest known figures, which are 2017 show that 73% of citizens have a positive feedback compared to Tax-on-web. This shows that there is still a huge divergence. When a Tax-on-web survey indicates that more than 70% of people are satisfied, it's pretty positive, I think. Contrary to UNSP's assertion that 91% of officers do not feel supported by their hierarchy, the SPF survey shows that the majority of officers feel sufficiently supported: 79% of respondents say so. The survey also shows that 71% of officers are proud to work in the FPS Finance, 70% are satisfied with their function. It seems to me that the FPS Finance investigation, which overlaps with the testimonies of more than 10,000 people, is more representative than that carried out by a certain union. With regard to staff reductions, it is true that the FPS Finance has done so, as have other FPS. But there are also recruitments. Of the 1,877 recruitments planned in the 2018 personnel plan, 419 were completed and 317 are pending. We are trying to use other methods of recruitment because we find that Selor's methods often lack a lot of flexibility. As for the level of training, within the FPS Finance, 107 467 days of training were organised last year. This means 5.7 days of training per staff member. That's a low grade. I am aware of that. It should be higher. The FPS Finance survey thus contradicts the figures of that one union in a reasonably convincing way. I am aware that more training is needed in the process of digitisation. The FPS Finance is responsible for this, but I think it is absolutely necessary to make an effort and to step up in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u48	Minister, I do not want to make you bear excessive responsibilities, since you have recently been in charge of this department – in addition, within a government in day-to-day affairs. Besides, you're not here for a very long time. Having said that, I would like you to take advantage of the time you have to meet other FPS Finance agents than the only high-level managers. Of course, they can prepare some kind of technocratic answers to convince you that everything is fine. Please go and meet with the field officers and the officials of the union in question. It's not a big word to be a unionist. These people have things to tell you, which come from the numbers of the survey and, above all, from their experience. After hearing them directly, I think you will revisit your position on the state of the FPS Finances. No, it's not all right. The situation has really deteriorated for several years. In the end, I feel you are very liberal – it is undoubtedly, of course, a compliment to you. It also means that you pay little attention to the proper functioning of the administration, that you do not care much about bringing money into the state's coffers, and that you are, in essence, a supporter of a weak state. This is unfortunate, because we need a strong FPS Finance. To do this, a real reinvestment is necessary, especially in the staff of this Regalian department.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u49	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that a number of key recruitments are still in the pipeline, which may have to be slightly simplified or facilitated for the administration. I have stressed in my question that we are in favour of the comprehensive digitisation of finance and the simple transparent services that our citizens are also asking for. However, everyone has to be with us. You yourself pointed out in your answer that there is apparently still not enough attention to education and training in the FPS Finance. I would therefore ask you to make more use of this in order to get everyone involved. If we want to succeed in digitisation and transformation, everyone must be able to participate in the service. We would therefore like to ask for more attention to be paid to training.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u50	Minister, I will call your answer a little simplistic. Finally, you question the investigation. You admit, however, that only 400 officers were recruited out of 1,800. So you recognize this underinvestment. Minister, citizens want tax justice. Citizens want everyone to pay their fair contribution to the state budget. This government has underinvested. This government did not provide sufficient resources for finance officials to do their jobs. You confessed by saying that there were only 400 of the 1,800 staff recruited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u51	Deputy Prime Minister, the tax conciliation service is working well. It is a remarkable service that everyone welcomes. It allows thousands of cases to be terminated every year, thus avoiding a backlog of cases. Businesses, as well as taxpayers, are very happy with this statutory service. It is composed of four people. Unfortunately, a recent decision of the Conseil d'État had just annulled the appointment of the two French-speaking members, not because of the selection procedure to which they both met brilliantly, but because the designation order did not contain a reason for the non-designation of the other three candidates. This seems a little surprising, but that is the meaning of the Council of State's ruling. This is really a problem, because this service must be run by colleges. As the college could no longer function, the tax conciliation service was out of order. I therefore have two questions for you. In routine cases, is it possible to submit to the Head of State a new reasoned order, as requested by the Council of State? If this is not the case, is it possible to keep the two officials concerned in office, as long as the new procedures are in place?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u52	Mr Piedboeuf, I agree with you on the proper functioning of the tax conciliation service. A tax service must have an efficient conciliation service, in order to try to find solutions and to have a service behaviour in relation to the taxpayer. Following the cancellation of the Conseil d'État which you referred to, concerning two members of the French linguistic role of the Collège du service de conciliation fiscale and in view of the requirement to respect linguistic parity within that Collège, my department is currently examining, from a legal point of view, the regulatory possibilities for the continuity of services. Indeed, in the current situation, this service is completely shut down. One of the possibilities envisaged is, with the agreement of the Council of Ministers, to propose for the King's signature the temporary appointment of two members of the French linguistic role. Of course, a call for applications leading to the appointment of two regular members, for the same period of five years, of the French linguistic role of the College is under preparation. I therefore hope that I will be able to submit a dossier to the Council of Ministers in the very near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u53	Minister, thank you for your attention. This is obviously fundamental for taxpayers and businesses. But it is also fundamental for the State, since this service was established by law, its civil liability can be incurred if it is not fulfilled. Thank you, therefore, for paying all your attention to the re-establishment of this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u54	Mr President, Minister, the F-35 issue is again in the news, this time with new information on security. As a reminder, the "market of the century", as it is called, has already caused a lot of ink to flow. Indeed, these fighter planes purchased by your government involve two generations of Belgian military and taxpayers. We are talking about the modest amount of 4 billion investment today. An independent research group, report in support, today reveals that this dear F-35 would be dangerous, not only for pilots, ground troops but also for populations. Indeed, the accuracy of missile fire is not there. Cracks appear, which calls into question the lifetime of this device. The computer system would be easily hackable and, finally, development costs would already have increased by $200 billion. For its part, the CBO, the very official U.S. Congressional Budget Office, which is looking at how to reduce U.S. debt, recommends suspending the purchase of the very expensive F-35s in order to achieve significant savings. Minister, do you intend to deal with this new information as a matter of urgency? Do you have any termination clauses? What are these clauses? If this new information is confirmed, would your government minority in day-to-day affairs be prepared to consider canceling this century's contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the government made its decision, the Prime Minister had this compelling argument to justify the choice of the F-35: the best value for money. It is true that even before the Prime Minister expressed himself, the one who was then the dominant boss of the government coalition, Bart De Wever had declared Urbi and Orbi, as a great connoisseur of military armament, that the Rafale could not have his chance, that it was not a good plan, that it was a bad apparatus that did not prove itself. However, today, an independent United States panel of experts is giving a rather challenging report. And it cannot be said that it is the jealousy of European industry towards Lockheed Martin, because it is not European experts who say so, but American experts. Personally, I am not an expert in armaments, but I dare believe this group of experts, which seems to have some credibility, according to the sources of information that can be collected. This group of experts is producing a rather interesting report, as my colleague has just said. I expect, of course, that the services of the Belgian army which analysed the offers have every guarantee as to the feasibility of the choice made by the Belgian Government. Nevertheless, the possibility of submitting this report should be reserved to independent American experts for critical analysis. This, by requiring the selected supplier to add its technical comments and answers. I am prepared to accept the adversarial debate. At the very least, pending more certain conclusions and prior to confirming the commitment of certain expenses, there should be assurance that the contract negotiated by the government includes a suspensive clause or a waiting clause. I therefore ask the government to inform us of the follow-up it has given to this warning coming from across the Atlantic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u56	Mr President, Minister, on 13 February this year I questioned you on the basis of a series of reports on technical defects in the F-35. Now a new report has appeared from an independent American watchdog. This report has been brought to the attention of the House and the content is quite right, Minister. Let me give you a list. The entire project runs through the price ceiling, with a price tag of EUR 200 billion higher than planned. The technical defects are also not minor. First of all, the heart of the plane, the software, the great argument to choose the F-35........................................................................................................................................................................................ Secondly, the on-board weapon does not shoot exactly but with a deviation to the right. Thirdly, the 100 remaining defects, according to the report, endanger the lives of the pilots. Last but not least, the device does not pass the durability tests; it cannot possibly fly the 8 000 hours guaranteed by Lockheed. My question to you is double, Minister. Firstly, can you provide a report from your defence staff responding to this criticism? Secondly, has the time not come to stop the ongoing procedure? The longer we wait, you explained to me on 13 February, the further we are in the proceedings, the higher the penalty clauses. I would therefore ask you to stop the procedure. That way, we will get rid of that flying Fyra at the lowest possible price.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u57	Minister, "the best purchase from the point of view of value for money", it is by these words and in this forum that the Prime Minister justified what some call the market of the century, which commits our country for several billions over several generations of Belgians. The discussions on the subject were long and passionate and the decision was delayed. The government has made a choice, which my group has strongly criticized. It is an American choice at the time of defence Europe, a choice blinded by Atlanticism up to the point where your friends from the N-VA are going, a choice that seems, as we have repeatedly denounced, to be made on the back of the Belgian French-speaking industry. The promises of economic benefits seem to be glamours. Finally, this is a choice for an uncombatable aircraft, as appears to be indicated by a new independent US POGO report. This report reveals many failures for the F-35s on life, computer system, missile accuracy and I pass it. Above all, there would be failures that seem to endanger the lives of our pilots, while that was the main argument of your working group to justify this choice. Minister, how does your government react to this umpteenth report of serious failures? What's the status of the replacement file? What answers do you give to the more than legitimate concerns of the Belgian industrial sector with regard to this issue? Do you already have any idea of the additional costs for our country that could be generated by this programme, which has already been ten years behind schedule and costs 200 billion more than expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard of independent reports, watchdogs and organisations that have spoken out. The report mentioned in the press is the 2018 annual report of the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, which was published at the end of January 2019 on the Internet – which is accessible to the general public – and which is transmitted to the US Congress and the Ministry of Defence. This service reports directly to the Ministry of Defence. The Director in question is appointed by the President of the United States and is confirmed by the President of the Senate. To put things back to all the defence specialists who express themselves: it is therefore a department of the Ministry of Defence which publishes these comprehensive reports on the Internet. What exactly is he doing? It analyses all major defence acquisition programs. If you have the curiosity to go to the website of this Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, you will see the evaluation of all programs, as every year, of American Defense with all the criticisms that the Department may have on a number of equipment, in discussion with the administration. I would also say that it is one of the strengths of the American offer that has been made to us because there are few countries that publish so transparently the remarks of their Department of Defense on the equipment that is in use. It is true that the F-35 is a complex program that is still developing, as you said. I would remind you that there is not yet one available to the Belgian army. I'll go back. It is generally accepted that there will remain a list of points to be improved throughout the life cycle of the programme, as is the case with other current weapons programmes. Thus, in 2017 and 2018, and this was also included in the programs and remarks of the same service, we made further improvements to our F-16s in Belgium. For years, they have proved their reliability. Most of the problems raised in the U.S. official report available since the end of January are not applicable under the F-35/A configuration, which will be acquired by Belgium. In addition, this type of device will be equipped, when delivered in 2023, with the most up-to-date hardware and software, including cybersecurity. I would point out, because I have heard comments about the very ability to fly on this aircraft, that the F-35 already has more than 180,000 hours of flight time on its meter and has already carried out more than 100 operational missions in theatres of operations. The type of aircraft which, according to the study, would not meet the life of 8,000 hours is not the type of aircraft that Belgium has purchased. The ALIS stand-alone logistics information system is indeed a support system for the operational and technical-logistical management of the aircraft. It has yet to be improved. There are currently a number of procedures to ensure proper functioning. In fact, this year there will be a liaison officer of the Belgian army who will be present in the United States to participate in these assessments and to respond to a number of criticisms. So I would say that at this time there is no basis for questioning the government's purchase decision. The prices are also fixed in this purchase decision. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you about the progress of the ESDP measures. Various contacts have already taken place with all the players involved, at all levels, with the manufacturer Lockheed, Pratt & Whitney and the Belgian companies, in collaboration with the FPS Economy and Defence. Last week, a large number of Belgian firms also signed an intention to cooperate with the American manufacturer, which shows that there is confidence and that progress is being made. I am prepared to provide you with a copy of the study of the United States Department of Defence, but I repeat that it has been available on the Pentagon website since the end of January. The study is available to everyone. To read them, no effort is needed other than a click on the internet. That goes for all of the DOD's programs. Mr. Chairman, in considering the quality of the analysis of all military programs and provided by a service, although appointed by the President of the United States and confirmed by the Senate, I believe that the same thought should be given to how we intend to accompany ours in the future. In any case, I am pleased that a press article published yesterday gave you the opportunity to consult this document available on the Internet since the end of January.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, your enthusiasm seems contradicted by the fears expressed by various colleagues and the recognised authors of this report. The Department of Defense is very concerned and provides us with information questioning the security of the programme in which we are involved and, therefore, the opportunity of this market of the century. It was already devoid of transparency and had been decided in haste, while being extremely expensive. It was already inconsistent with an integrated European defence, reflecting a vision more beneficial to our small country than investments in 34 Belgian fighter aircraft. He now appears to be dangerous. As you know, the Greens have always opposed this market. If this information is confirmed – but I mean you don't take it into account, because you don't think it exists – then you'll have to do everything you can to get out of it. Finally, if we withdraw from this contract, Minister, the billions thus released could be used for many other things: for example, the climate and social emergency. I am also thinking of more timely investment in defence. I will conclude by inviting you, if you lack any ideas, to come to see us or to listen to the citizens who are still on the street today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u60	Minister, knowing your speed, I have no doubt that you have read it as soon as it is published. You may even have received it before it was published on the site.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u61	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u62	Thank you. That's the question I'm worried about. Indeed, if you have had it exclusively, perhaps by the Embassy's services, I have no doubt that you have had time to ask the services of the Belgian army to analyse it. That's what I asked you to do. Was there any analysis by the Belgian army services of this report? Is there any confirmation of the fears? Is there confirmation of the objective data contained in this report? Indeed, you yourself stress the quality of the work done independently – which is true – by an authority in the United States. What matters to me is not knowing who read it or who didn't read it. As I told you, I'm not an arms expert. So I am not going to pretend that this report is well founded or not. What do you want me to say? What matters to me is to know how far the Belgian army is checking such a credible source of information? But to that question, I did not get an answer. I therefore wonder whether the Belgian army services have read this report carefully and whether it can be concluded that there are any fears to have. I wonder what the consequences are? This seems to me to be an element of prudence when it comes to a market of this magnitude.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u63	Mr President, Minister, your defence was really weak. Your defense stated that the independent watchdog is linked to the Department of Defense. That's your argument. However, I note that the information provided differs between Belgium and the United States, for example. Mr Minister, we are dealing with serious problems here. The aircraft in question has been under development for 18 years and is at Block 3. It is unusual that after 18 years of development, the independent service still has to address more than 100 problems, which are not even minor problems. That service also points out that the price is no longer under control. Minister, the Americans have concluded from this that the number of F-35s they would order will be substantially reduced. They concluded that they are now fighting with Lockheed Martin on who will bear the additional costs that will result from the continuing technical problems. For your information, Minister, I would like to point out that before the purchase, the Netherlands had decided to place a budgetary fence around the plane. However, it has had to be recognised that the budgetary fence is not sustainable: the aircraft will cost much more. Mr. Secretary, you've already received two warnings. However, apparently you are also packed by the Defence Staff or by the Chief of the Air Force. After all, the full report of the Chamber will state that on 13 February 2018 and on 28 March 2018 Members of Parliament also pointed out the many existing problems. The longer we wait, the higher the price will be, the harder it will be to get out. Worse still, if we are stuck with that flying Fyra, we will remind the many citizens of this country that the problems are your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will tell you that it is not necessary to be an expert to understand all the waste that this dossier represents. Incidentally, I would point out that, since the Prime Minister refused to do so, you yourself did not answer the core of my question. Your promises of staggering savings and returns seem far away: 34 aircraft for almost 4 billion euros! Four billion euros for a project that does not support Europe's defence, 4 billion dollars spent without guarantees, as we feared, for our industry and especially for the Walloon industry. Maybe 4 billion euros for planes nailed to the ground! We said it and repeated it! We have denounced the procedure and its lack of transparency, but in this and other cases you have preferred to give in to the Community pressure of the N-VA. Finally, Minister, in this matter, the Prime Minister is not the only one who is a mirage. This is also the case with all the interest and attention you have paid to Belgians, and Francophones in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u65	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would like to ask you about a tragedy that has gone largely unnoticed. During the night of 22-23 March, 160 Peuls from the village of Ougossagou, in the centre of Mali, mainly women, children and old people, were brutally massacred, beheaded, skinned, burned alive, thrown into wells. This killing barely made a few lines in the papers. But this is not the first massacre. This is taking place against the background of a very significant destabilization in Mali, with tens of thousands of displaced persons, people in dire need of food aid, a conflict with various components; there are still jihadist groups, inter-ethnic tensions and land claims. We are present, through MINUSMA, this stabilization force established following the Algiers agreements of 2013, at the end of the conflict in northern Mali. We are trying, along with others, to move towards peace in this country. The least we can say is that it does not work well. The situation is destabilizing. There is tomorrow an important meeting of the Security Council, chaired by France. I guess as a member, we're going to participate. Mr Minister, what will be our proposals to ensure that this cycle of violence, of unspeakable massacres, stops, that we can find the way to peace? Isn't it time to re-evaluate MINUSMA's mandate? It is to be renewed in June. Is it not time to change our strategy and give ourselves the means to achieve peace in this country and to prevent these killings from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u66	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, this massacre has not gone unnoticed. I reacted as early as Sunday to the massacre perpetrated on Saturday in a Peul village in central Mali. I have asked, and we are contributing to it, for an investigation to quickly determine who the perpetrators are and to prosecute them. There is no question of leaving impunity to anyone in such a case. Without anticipating the conclusions, one can of course only worry about the presence in the region, in the centre of Mali, of self-defence groups, which qualify themselves as such, acting on an ethnic basis. The defence and security forces have been unable to assist them. We will continue to combat this phenomenon of impunity. We do so both in bilateral contacts and in multilateral forums. The Security Council has just organized a visit to Mali. Our Permanent Representative has, of course, participated. The situation will be discussed this Friday in the Council. Belgium will express its concern about the deterioration of the situation in the centre of the country and, again, about the need to reject the stigmatization of an ethnic group, in particular the Peuls, which is currently under way. In order to do so, the implementation of the peace agreement must be stepped up. You're asking what our country's commitment is. Of course, we will intervene on this issue in the Security Council. Within the Benelux framework, we have already allocated EUR 1 million for the MINUSMA Trust Fund to support the International Commission of Inquiry for Mali. The Commission is mandated by the Council to shed light on crimes and other serious violations of law throughout Mali. It has been investigating a number of events since 2012. Of course, we ask that it also investigate recent events. More broadly, as you know, our commitment is based on a comprehensive approach. While the stakes sometimes differ from place to place, we react with a capacity to fight against armed groups and trafficking and to restore justice and the rule of law. We saw him on Tuesday in Niger, with the death of 12 civilians following an attack by Boko Haram. Work is still to be done in much of the Sahel. We will continue to strengthen our diplomatic presence on the ground and to contribute, through our military contribution, to actions against armed groups. However, I would like to stress that we will continue to support the efforts of some actors on the ground to find a political solution. We will of course only emerge from the situation which unfortunately exists on the ground by means of a political solution. This requires that our development cooperation also be present to support all development efforts, within the framework of this political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u67	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, I am indeed pleased with your efforts to address this extremely serious and dangerous situation. The safety of the Peuls, Malians and ours are also played there. Impunity must be avoided in the region. I am pleased that we were involved in supporting this committee of inquiry. You have not talked about it much, but we also need to review the way we act on the spot, and our overall strategy. Indeed, peace is receding, it is not moving forward. The means developed must be reviewed. In addition to these various components, we must, through our cooperation, provide the humanitarian aid that the population urgently needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u68	Mr. Secretary, yesterday's Pano broadcast on sexual abuse in Jehovah's witnesses was shocking. For example, it was painful to see how children grow up in almost social isolation. They may have little or no contact with the outside world. There are no extracurricular activities or birthday parties, but they do have to go door to door. Even worse is the way in which sexual abuse is handled in the organisation. There are no reports to the police or the justice department. This must not be done by the organization, under penalty of exclusion. They deal with it through their own internal court, not worthy of that name. For example, one must have two witnesses to prove certain facts. In the case of paedophilia, this is, of course, completely impossible. That is unworthy of a rule of law. The report also showed that the names of many of the perpetrators are known and kept up-to-date at the headquarters in Kraainem. Minister, that has come to light in the reportage and I am afraid that important evidence on the ground could be lost. The first complaints were received in Belgium in September. The federal prosecutor's office recorded the file in January and will conduct the investigation. Mr Minister, I know this is difficult in an ongoing dossier, but can you comment on the state of the matter? Is there a risk that evidence will be lost? Secondly, following sectarian organisations is an important task in a democratic rule of law. With us, that is a matter for the security of the state. However, last year's activity report showed that this task was actually neglected. That is what the former Chairman of the Committee I says. That is, of course, unacceptable. I would have liked to have heard your reaction to that. Can this be corrected so that the succession of sectarian organizations becomes a priority once again in the security of the State? Finally, what other measures will you take to ensure that victims who leave will also receive appropriate support and assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u69	Mr. Secretary, last night the Pano report brought out the abuse of Jehovah's witnesses in a very confrontational manner. That is the subject we have discussed here in the working group on the question of the IACSO, which wanted to come forward with a number of facts from its report. That happened behind closed doors because the investigation is still under way. The many complaints about sexual abuse in the Catholic Church also raised the issue in other sectors, including sports and youth. According to the organisation, there are only three complaints from Belgians in the Netherlands, and very few here, makes it very difficult to come out with such facts. But that seems to me to be peculiar to the closed system of sectarian organizations. During the crocus vacation I happened to read Children of Heaven. That's the parallel story of three girls getting out of a cult. It wasn't about Jehovah's witnesses, but about the fact that getting out of such a closed system is so incredibly difficult. Mr Van Hecke, I have already heard the Minister answer your questions on the radio this morning. I think it is important that complaints are filed after the Pano report. I see that the site of the VRT refers to reclaimedvoices.org, where one can report complaints. Reference is also made to Tele-Onthal. In Flanders there is also the hotline 1712 for the follow-up of complaints. Minister, it is important that there are complaints, that there are testimonies so that we can continue to work. Do you know, first of all, the system of complaint submission? Can this be done in a coordinated manner, so that something can be done effectively with the complaints and so that anyone who wishes to lodge a criminal complaint is informed of the way in which that should be done? Secondly, more generally, Minister, how do you see the further approach of sectarian organisations, including Jehovah's witnesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u70	Minister, child abuse in the family, child abuse in sport, child abuse in the church, child abuse in the witnesses of Jehovah, every time I see everyone startled when such facts come to light. Every time we're scared: so many victims, so long covered up. Actually, I don't understand. When are we gonna wake up? Child abuse is everywhere. It's really everywhere, and it's especially thriving in power structures and especially in power structures hanged by some kind of belief, with little g or capital G, hanging from gurus, from descendants of some god. Unfortunately, perpetrators may feel almost untouchable for decades. Organisations cover pots to keep the faith in their institution pure, although it is as rotten inside as it can be. They create their own courts, which can make judgments according to the institution and which do not take victims into account. How many more times will we startle? Or do we finally wake up and act, all of us, by never looking away from child abuse ever again, by making our children resilient and not shielding anyone from the consequences of his horrible acts? That too is happening too often. Mr Minister, perhaps we can also take preventive action from the Justice Department instead of acting reactively again and once again setting up a hotline or expressing tough language to the perpetrators? Given the limitation periods, they are long gone. Ladies and gentlemen, will we continue to demand victims to take the initiative to intervene? Does it have to come from them? After years of trauma and imposed silence, should they have the unlikely power to come out? Shall we keep asking or wake up and get to work preventively? Minister, what can be done in this area from the point of view of justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that people in Jehovah's witnesses are suffering from this phenomenon, which has been known to us for some time. I am being asked about prevention, but before that I would like to say that justice is primarily focused on repression. There are two years on guilty failure to report such facts by adults. In the last parliamentary term, we have increased the limitation period to 15 years from the age of majority. In other words, I know the child victim has to come out himself, but before the report, the victim has until his or her 33rd year of life. In the Committee on Justice, I have always said that, in my opinion, such crimes are subject to discussion. It can be considered in a subsequent legislature. However, we all know that the issue of proof is not the easiest one, especially if we extend the limitation period to immortality. We equip the organization IACSSO again with additional staff. This is unrelated to the facts that we are discussing today, because according to the staff plan, four full-time equivalents are added. That organisation shall function properly. Reclaimed Voices, to which Mrs Becq refers, is a private Dutch organisation. In Belgium there are two victim organisations for the victims of sects, namely AVISO in Wallonia and SAS in Flanders. In the framework of IACSSO, these victim organisations are supported to be a hotline. It is true that in 2015 the National Security Council adopted an action plan on State Security, in which sectarian violence was not among the three main priorities. These three priorities were counter-intelligence, counter-terrorism and cyber-threat. It is true, as I said this morning, that, now that we are being pushed back into the facts again, we need to look at this again. I will also do what is necessary for this. However, we immediately passed on to the public the facts that IACSSO was rubbing under our noses. I have no choice, and I said that this morning, but to have faith in the federal courthouse and to remain silent. There's a time when people don't talk. Everyone's freaked out about Pano's report. However, we have not been alarmed in the cabinet, we have known this for a while. We have done what is necessary, we have done what a Minister of Justice does in such circumstances. I'm confident the federal prosecutor will handle this properly. But, ladies and gentlemen, our indignation is more than justified. I am incredibly unhappy about it, but let us think above all about how and at what level we can approach it more preventively than we are today. I am willing, and I have said it many times, to speak of immorality, but proof is difficult. I can only say that the internal elderly, as they are called, who cover up this cover-up, are punishable and their behaviour is extremely reprehensible. So if anyone thinks they're gonna get away with it, at least I'll do everything I can to try and get him prosecuted. I can tell you that. I was as disoriented as you were, but that's all I can say about it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u72	Mr President, Minister, it is important that we draw good lessons from past experience. We already have experience. There's the abuse in the Church. It has lasted for decades and decades the ulcer has eaten before it is cracked open. Then it was really dealt with and it came into the actuality. They also knew a long time ago about abuse in sport, but only recently, due to a number of revelations, that file really came up. We must learn one lesson from that. If we get signals that something is going wrong, we must not make the mistake of the past, but we must act as quickly as possible. By "we," I mean the whole government, Justice in the first place. It is true that such crimes are sometimes difficult to prove. The evidence is very difficult to provide, but just in this file there are indications that there are evidence, which one often does not have in similar cases, where nothing is on paper. That is why it would be a pity that those evidence elements would disappear. Finally, as far as State security is concerned, it is indeed important that it be reactivated. I do not call for this to be given the highest priority, but it is an important task that has been neglected. It must again be included as a full-fledged task, with sufficient people working on it and who, when they see abuses, can pass that on to the Justice Department in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u73	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is indeed not easy. Actually, we're all responsible. If I hear you talking about prevention, I'll follow you immediately. We must know and pass on the signals. That is what we are trying to do today within the Flemish Community, not so much in the federal government. The only problem I hear is that in organizations like Jehovah's witnesses, people aren't always recognizable. They do not go to the OCMW, they are not necessarily detected in schools. This makes it very difficult because abuse often comes to light only when special youth care is faced with other situations in these families. That's what the hatch prevention is about. I believe that good cooperation with the Communities is also necessary from the point of view of justice and the handling of complaints. We are talking here about complaints, about detecting organisations and monitoring them, as Mr Van Hecke has just said. The working group can also take this as a recommendation. There is also a need for a framework once the people have lodged a complaint or left the organisation. They must be helped and supervised. This also requires cooperation between the Justice and the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u74	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Of all the traumas a child may experience, child abuse is one of the most profound, especially if it is followed by years of oppression, disbelief, misunderstanding and cover-up. It makes a human being vulnerable for the rest of his life, and it also makes it difficult to enter into relationships. I insist that we are far from there and that society must deal with it differently. We must do more for the people who have experienced it, but also for the children where it threatens to happen every day. Mr Minister, I should like to apologize for what I have to say to you. I hear you're very disoriented about the people who covered it up with Jehovah's witnesses, that it's an omission of guilt and that it should be condemned. I am sorry to have to say this, but we have recently had the funeral of a cardinal who has been proven to have covered things up, such as the Vangeluwe case. Yet he was carried with much grandeur for grave. I find this poignant, because holy people do not exist. So let us stop treating them like this, especially if they have committed such acts. Maybe that could be a signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u75	Minister of Justice, on 17 May 2018, the language law on court cases was amended here, on your initiative. That law is toothless. As you know, that law is no longer a matter of public policy and therefore the courts cannot apply it of their own motion. Moreover, the person claiming infringement of that law must prove damage to interests. Interest damage is a very relative concept. That law was passed here by the N-VA, CD&V and the Open Vld. Mrs Wouters and I then said that this law would be a disaster and that Dutch-speaking matters, especially in the Flemish border, would be dealt with in French. You replied: 'It is an unrealistic scenario which is only theoretically conceivable'. Theoretically? No, Minister, it has already been put into practice. I gave you the judgment of the Brussels family court concerning a family living in Zaventem. The family court ruled, based on your law, that the case should be dealt with in French. In that case, the defendant is Dutch-speaking, Minister. This is a child who is a school student in Dutch, in Kortenberg. The previous correspondence in the case took place in Dutch. All the documents in the case are written in Dutch. For example, these are tax returns and school certificates. As a icing on the cake, another child of that couple had a procedure before the Dutch-speaking family court in Brussels. The family court therefore decided without justification and without commenting on all those elements that the case could be dealt with in French, because there was no evidence of any damage to the interests. Minister, according to your law, it is the plaintiff who determines the language of proceedings in Flemish Brabant. In the Flemish outskirts, French speakers are served in French. The law of the N-VA, the Open Vld and CD&V is therefore a complete disaster. What stupidity, what stupidity to touch that monument, the 1935 language law. Then complain about the laceration of the Flemish edge and sell straws as "being Flemish is in our DNA," but it's obviously not in your voting behavior. Minister of Justice, I have added the verdict to my question. Where is your repair law that you promised at some point?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u76	Mr Vuye, since the law of 19 October 2015, the nullity of a procedural act or the sanction of non-compliance with a period prescribed under penalty of nullity can be ruled only if the defect or irregularity has affected the interests of the party claiming it and that nullity is covered if it is not proposed in limine litis for any other means. The Constitutional Court approved that reform in its judgment of 31 May 2018. Next, the law of 25 May 2018 that you have violated, among other things, equated the violation of the language rules with other formal defects. It follows that the sanctioning of formal errors in language legislation is subject to the principles applicable to other procedural rules. Those principles are usually expressed with a few French and Latin adagia, I assume that you have less objection to the Latin language than to the French-speaking.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I am sorry, but I have rarely been able to get rid of that in the past, so I am not going to be able to express myself on a specific matter. On the one hand, if the parties consider that the court does not correctly interpret the concept of damage to interests, it is for the courts to rule on that; on the other hand, as regards the jurisdiction of the French-speaking or Dutch-speaking court of Brussels on the issue of jurisdiction, there is no doubt that the division of jurisdiction which determines the division of jurisdiction between the courts and courts should be sought not in the nullity procedure, which relates to the validity of proceedings, but precisely in that division of jurisdiction. The rules of jurisdiction are independent of the relative or absolute nullity of an act and are independent of the interpretation of the concept of damage to interests. The amendments made to the sanctioning of the formal rules in 2015 and 2018 do not affect the rules of jurisdiction. It is up to the judge of the facts, at first instance and on appeal, and ultimately to the Court of Cassation to rule on that jurisdiction in an individual case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u77	Mr. Secretary, of course you're going around the pot beautifully. You entered the term "interest damage" into that law. The majority of Michel I approved this. You said that the criticism of Mrs Wouters and myself was based on a theoretical scenario. We are now demonstrating, within the year following the adoption of your law, that it is not a theoretical but a practical scenario. You should have known this! You'd be much better off hitting mea culpa and getting a repair law passed, as you promised in the Justice Commission. N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld should have known this too! The Flemish Interest and we voted against it. Mr De Roover, I see that you are now remorseful. A proposal for a repair law of the N-VA will be put forward at the beginning of the consideration. You are once again following my group. We submitted this a long time ago. I already promise you that we will be asking for the urgency to deal with your bill in due course. We will also support this urgency. Whoever comes to understanding and repents may have a future. I fear only that your understanding and repentance will again be completely absent on 27 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u78	Mr Minister, I have just heard a number of colleagues, Mrs van Peel and Mrs Becq, quite rightly outraged about child trauma resulting from child abuse. Mrs van Peel may be right to say that these could be the most horrible traumas. Although there may be a more gruesome trauma, namely a child who dies of starvation, who dies far from his country, who dies of neglect, who dies because an arm is amputated and there is no adequate care. Mr Minister, I heard you say that there is never a long way to go in this matter. Three Belgian children between one and a half years and four years have died in recent days. These children were sheltered in a Kurdish camp under American-Kurdish control in Al-Hol. The youngest child of one and a half years has died of hunger. According to international aid organisations, Child Focus and others, there are 51 Belgian children in that same camp. Our security services are talking about two hundred children. Minister, how much is the life of a Belgian child worth in those circumstances? When will the Belgian Government assume its responsibility, as the international organizations ask, as the Kurdish leaders ask, as parents ask, as many Members of Parliament ask. When will the government actively return those children? I hope that the government sees the Belgian children mainly as babies, toddlers, children, but not as future terrorists who prevent you and your government from repatriating them. I hope for positive news, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u79	Mr President, Mr Bonte, together with Minister Reynders, I am pleased to be able to give you the government's clear position on this matter. It has been decided to bring back children under 10 years of age and, on a case-by-case basis, children over 10 years of age, provided, of course, that their parents agree. It is not the case that repatriation will only be organised if the children are offered at a diplomatic or consular post. That is not possible in Syria. The government is therefore actively working on the repatriation of children in the Syrian camps. Many contacts have been made to this effect, but the existing delicate situation does not allow much to be said about it. After all, that would work counter-productively. The various departments work together to obtain as accurate a picture as possible of the number of children of Belgian nationality or who can claim Belgian nationality, their identity and their location. This includes contacts with various Belgian and international associations or organisations. Forming a precise image remains difficult and becomes even more difficult with the fall of Baghouz. To this end, some 30 children were called upon to be provided with assistance on their return. At the moment, it is said to be about 50 children, but that number is absolutely not final. The recent death of a young child of a Belgian mother seems linked to the fall of Baghouz. The Kurdish government has confirmed that the child died in Asakir's hospital from injuries sustained during fighting in Baghouz. Even if we had managed to organise repatriations to Belgium for children in the camps, this would not have been enough to avoid this incident. That is a provisional conclusion based on provisional information. We know that living conditions in the camps are worsening. You referred to France. This week I was with colleagues from a number of other Western European countries. It concerns five orphans, which makes it easier to convince international organizations because the mother is not around. France is also a military presence on the ground. We hope to be able to unblock the situation on the ground soon. Given the quality and experience of our diplomatic structure, that is certainly possible. It is a commitment that we have taken and must honour. These children are not responsible for their parents' crimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u80	Minister, the information we get from the media, but also from other sources, shows that every day counts. With the evacuation of Baghouz, the Belgian families and especially the Belgian children in the camp Al-Hol have indeed been put on edge. It is obvious that it is difficult and complex to have a good picture. Every day counts, however. I remember the discussion following a resolution which we tabled together with a number of political groups six months ago and through which we called for a more active repatriation. Then you gave about the same answer, that the case was difficult and complex and that you didn't have a good picture. I note that Child Focus has a lot of information about the children, about who it is. I also note that journalists reach Belgian families and children in the camps. I also note that we know at local level of 29 Belgian children from our city. I'll transfer the names to you. I understand all the technical and practical objections raised, but I do not understand why these arguments are being used not to actively repatriate like other countries. I really hope for a change in the attitude of the Belgian Government. Again, every day counts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u81	Madam Secretary, I would like to present today the story of Inge, a story that I received by e-mail and which has also been published on social media. Inge was diagnosed with metastatic cancer four months ago. I'm going to tell you about Inge, who informs us through social media and email that she has widespread cancer, which was diagnosed four months ago. Inge tells us that last week she received an invitation for control and a reintegration process. Inge still fights, gets chemo, is weakened, has headaches, is tired, thinks about how life will go on, thinks about how it will get through. And then she gets control and an invitation to talk about a way to get back to work, about adapted work. Madam Secretary, how can such decisions be made? You're a doctor. You know how hard it is to fight cancer. How can such a decision be made? After chemotherapy, we're exhausted! We're fighting the disease, we're focusing on ourselves and we're looking for a future. Then they tell you we have to get back to work! How can we go on like this, Madam Secretary? What's the worst part? While you have put so much pressure on all the long-term sick, with the idea that you would reduce the number of sick, the balance is that we have gone from 343 000 long-term sick to 415 000 long-term sick in Belgium since the start of the Michael administration. So 71 000 long-term sick people have been added. We bully them, we push them back to work, we destroy them and yet there are more and more. I have questions, Madam Secretary. Behind those figures, behind the euros, there are people. Has it ever occurred to you that your policy cannot go on like this and that one should leave a sick person alone? They need enough power to get through. Do you not think that, as a minister, as a doctor, you should stop such a policy, because you bully them too much, and that you should help the long-term sick on the contrary? Do you think it makes sense that your policies lead to such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u82	Mr Hedebouw, what you are describing here is not the policy I have drawn up. I have drawn up a policy to give people who still have the opportunity and the will to go back to work in a gentle way that is also effective. If, in the case of Inge, there is an invitation at a time when she is still receiving chemotherapy and is still fighting her cancer, then a mistake must have been made. It will be sufficient to send a documented message. It happens that there are such mistakes, that one rolls out of a computer and that there is not enough information about the condition that one has and the struggle that one is in. That is not the policy, however. The policy that has been outlined aims to give people the opportunity to return to work gently after overcoming their illness. This is even stated in the memorandum of 'Come on against cancer', which is important for cancer patients and ex-cancer patients. The organisation considers the follow-up and facilitation of reintegration pathways and the awareness of employers for a possible resumption of work to be positive. So what you're quoting here is not possible. But I wouldn't make that a show. I never said there could be no longer long-term sick. I'm a doctor and I realize that not everyone can heal. It is not obvious for everyone to undergo treatment. So stop making a caricature of it, you've done enough already.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u83	Madam Secretary, your policy is caricature. The stories I quoted are all real stories. The sickness funds shall also submit them. I don't need to describe to you that the pressure is increasing. There have been thousands of similar stories from long-term sick people who are simply bullied. You say that a resumption of work is a possibility, but that is not correct, because those who do not resume work and therefore say no are sanctioned by a reduction of the benefit by 5% to 10%, while those who do not already have much. For those who earn 6 000 euros per month, 5 to 10 % is not a problem, because then the loss is about 600 euros, but on a small benefit 5 to 10 % makes a big difference. Madam Minister, you are well aware that 70% of the cases are simply excluded by the employer. So there's no heart in your policy. You think only of the pennies, while I think of the people. That's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u84	Mr President, Minister, 'close to our competitiveness'. Those were the harsh words of the top woman and CEO of Melexis, Françoise Chombar. She said this in response to the new postponement of the 5G auction. 5G is needed to roll out new technologies in our country. We discussed this a few weeks ago. Minister, I remember you calling this a vulgar penny issue. I talked earlier about the power of the standstill. Let it be clear that there was a little hope again this week. Opinion maker Bart Haeck walked a new path in De Tijd, proposing to deposit the proceeds into a blocked account. In this way, the whole issue of the elections can be lifted and then looked at how the proceeds can be distributed. In other words, sell now, put the money in a blocked account and later we'll see what's possible. He even suggested reducing public debt with it. We Liberals cannot, of course, oppose this, because today's debts are tomorrow's taxes. Minister, I am very interested in your opinion on this. Here's one more thing, though. If everyone agrees that 5G is important to our economy, why is it not possible to quickly auction that 5G frequency? Who could be against that and why? Mr Minister, I am incredibly looking forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u85	Mr President, Mrs Lijnen, thank you for this question. Indeed, we have every interest in accelerating the roll-out of 5G in our country. This arrival is crucial for our economy and our business. It is also important to be able to offer additional services to consumers. A Ericsson report estimated that the roll-out of 5G represents an additional €7 billion for GDP by 2026. This also applies to the entire IT sector and not only to telecom operators. However, we also see that 5G requires large investments from operators. Already they have to invest without a clear business case or a earning model. They are therefore concerned about this. The roll-out of 5G is slowing down. They're waiting for more certainty. I share the analysis I could read in a report by Minister Muyters of the Flemish Government. It says literally: "If one waits for the infrastructure to be installed in other places, the first cases with companies have been set up and the profitability has been shown, we will soon be five to ten years ahead." That is the essence of the problem. We therefore need to do a number of things effectively. The Flemish government has tried to reduce the investment risks by setting up a Flemish 5G company, but that proved to be completely unworkable, even after lobbying the three existing operators. It's absolutely not legally possible. There is a problem with competition and technologically it is not possible to put three operators on the same system. So it was a stillborn child and it also caused part of the delay. Afterwards, operators tried to lobby to auction only a small part of the 5G frequencies, only the 6.5 GHz band, but this would allow them to invest much slower. When the auction is divided into two pieces, two months apart, because Europe obliges us to organise a different auction more quickly, the fourth operator, who has to create additional competition, will be de facto kept out of the door and the slow pace of investment can be maintained, while we just need an acceleration in the pace of investment. This also requires more competition. We need to ensure that extra players are added, so that the roll-out of 5G can give a push in the back. Finally, I was told that the roll-out and auction had to do with the Summer deal, including the degressivity of unemployment benefits. As long as that part of the package had not been implemented, the other part, in particular the roll-out and auctioning of the 5G frequencies, would not be possible. This would lead to unreasonable demands in terms of money and finance, which has led to this blocking. I repeat my plea and I stand by it: organize the entire auction quickly, put the money in a blocked account and leave the political games ahead after the elections. In any case, then, we have a policy that allows for economy and investment and no longer threatens to block the economy and our industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u86	Thank you for your very clear answer, Minister. You've shared a lot of information with us. Our group can only fully agree with you. Let us proceed as quickly as possible to the conclusion of the 'Bart Haeck' agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u87	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u88	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Els Van Hoof, Dirk Janssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u90	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u91	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a more specific statement on the measure in favour of care provided by pharmacists, because it represents a great step forward. The bill establishes an honorarium of availability for pharmacists who participate in organized daycare services. It won't be billed to patients, but to INAMI. That is the importance of this text. As soon as the Act comes into force, pharmacists will no longer charge patients for medication prescribed by a physician, whether refundable or non-refundable. Up to now, they could pay up to five euros per package. In short, once again, the patient's interest is taken into account. So this is a win-win. These provisions are also positive for pharmacists, who are valued in their role and work. In addition, patients will no longer have to pay when they go to the on-call pharmacy, if their doctor – as I said – has prescribed the medicine. The availability fee has been considered at around 65 euros. This amount, calculated with the sector on the basis of an average, satisfies the interested parties. This reform has been the subject of concerted action and was, in fact, long overdue. It will reduce the cost to the patient and improve accessibility. We can only rejoice in that. This much-awaited progress is, at last, there! Other measures relating to proprietary medicinal products and prophylactic provisions relating to poliomyelitis are more technical, but are also important. On these points, I refer to the debates we had in committee, which were once again very constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u92	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u93	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3504/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3504/3) The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u94	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u95	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers, Damien Thiéry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Dirk Janssens, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall very quickly mention three points in the bill under consideration: the Federal Council of Pharmacists, the new concept of advanced practice nurse and the provisions on foreign doctors. The creation of a Federal Council of Pharmacists embodies a measure of the pact with pharmacists. It was long-awaited by the sector. Today, we take into account pharmacists' requests. Ultimately, the profession of pharmacist was the only health care profession that did not have a separate advisory body. It was therefore entirely logical to create this Council. It will have to decide on all aspects relating to the profession of pharmacist and the development of pharmaceutical care. The concept of advanced practice nurse is a novelty. This is a new category of complex nursing that will be specified in a royal order to follow. The Federal Council on Nursing has already issued an opinion on this issue in May last year. Let me quote a short passage from the text in order to illustrate the concept as such: "The advanced nurse is an expert in a specific field or in responding to the needs of a specific group of people and in managing complex situations. The Advanced Practice Nurse acts in all areas where complex situations are encountered and where additional skills are needed to deliver quality, evidence-based care and a systemic vision of care." The measure will, of course, be implemented in full consultation with the Federal Council of Nurse Art, but also with the Higher Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners. This consultation is important. The proposal also lays down stricter rules for foreign doctors who have completed their training outside the European Union and who wish to practise their profession in Belgium. The aim of this amendment is to ensure that care providers who have graduated outside the European Union have the required level of care to ensure the best possible quality of care. In particular, the proposal provides for the possibility of setting a quota for doctors and dentists who have graduated outside the European Union. The proposal also allows highly specialized foreign doctors in a particular field, because of their perfect expertise in this field, to practice their profession for a limited period of time in our country. Thanks to this provision, a specialist surgeon can come to our country to perform a very complex operation on a patient suffering, for example, from rare cancer. Finally, the law aims to clarify the conditions that a doctor from a non-EU country must meet in order to be able to receive training in Belgium on a particular medical technique or expertise. These were the three elements that I wanted to highlight today in the context of this bill, which has been debated at length in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u98	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we have pointed out in committee, several elements of this text which makes a series of amendments to the Health Professions Act raise questions. Among these, the introduction of a visa quota for doctors from a non-member country of the European Union in the context of a shortage – we keep reminding you of this – to which there is never a comprehensive response, to the detriment of patients but also of our hospitals. I will also mention the changes in access to clinical training for non-EU foreign doctors who, in our view, have only one objective, namely to restrict access to such training. Finally, if we fully support the creation of the advanced nursing profession, it should have been part of a more comprehensive reform of nursing practice. There is an increasing number of issues and concerns in the sector, particularly regarding delegation of acts and training, and it is damaging to be unable to clarify this situation. In view of these elements, and as we did in committee, we will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u99	Mr President, we supported several articles of this bill, including the one on access to the exercise of medical art in Belgium for doctors from non-EU countries. It should be recalled that in this area, a very small number is concerned, since the vast majority of the hundreds of doctors and dentists who settle in each year and automatically obtain an INAMI number are from the European Union – not from neighbouring countries but from further on. In this regard, Madam Minister, your or your successor's responsibility will be to make a royal decree on the basis of the law that I introduced a few weeks ago and which we voted for. On the other hand, and know that I will focus primarily on this matter, there is a real concern in this bill. As much as I have pleaded, for a very long time, for the advanced practice nurse, the way in which you present him is really problematic. The reason for this is that you miss out on a comprehensive reform, particularly with regard to the nurse in general care. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I must note that while I asked you about the famous royal decree on the basis of which you are transferring nursing acts to the aides-carriers, you made us a great mystery in committee by telling us that you did not know where this royal decree was. I can use your terms, they're as you said in the report. It was still big shit! There was a lot of amateurism and denigration towards Parliament. But the truth is that this royal decree has come out today. You managed to put all the nurses on your back in a teaspoon. Frankly, I understand them. Bringing things in little bits as you do, without having a concerted approach with the first concerned (nurses) and without taking into account the whole part of general care nurses, is totally unacceptable. I will conclude with the promises you made to all the representatives of the nursing profession. You have absolutely failed to fulfil these promises of consultation, especially in relation to these reforms. Frankly, I find it particularly regrettable and disrespectful for those nurses who, I would remind you, both at home and in hospitals, are working in a largely inadequate environment today. It is enough to look at the European averages. It is a great weakness and a great failure of your ministry over the past five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3526/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3526/4) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in 的proposal for a law amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health care professions". The title in French has been amended by the commission in the proposal for a law amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 relating to the exercise of health care professions ". The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u103	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ine Somers, Damien Thiéry, Nathalie Muylle, Dirk Janssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u104	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u105	Mr President, Madam Minister, I shall speak here quickly on the amendment we have tabled with Mrs Lijnen and Mrs Van Hoof on the establishment of a cannabis office. In our view, this is an extremely important step. Of course, we are targeting therapeutic cannabis, cannabidiol. The legal basis for extending the competencies of the AFMPS for the organization of cannabis cultivation and the establishment of a cannabis office is foreseen. More and more countries recognize the use of cannabis as a medicine or for medical purposes. Cannabis for medical use has been receiving attention for some time, as studies demonstrate the potential added value of cannabis compared to conventional drug therapies. In our country and under this legislature, the drug Sativex, based on two extracts of cannabis, has been authorised in Belgium in the treatment of symptoms related to moderate to severe spasticity due to multiple sclerosis. This is a very convincing case since we found that, for some patients for whom conventional treatments were not working, Sativex, however, provided constructive and effective treatment. What we are doing today is a rather limited step. That's right. But it will allow at least a fully regulated and controlled crop and distribution to the pharmaceutical sector, as well as to any other dangerous raw material. This is, of course, not legislation intended for recreational use. We are well in the therapeutic field. Nor is it a matter of delivering medicinal cannabis to whom it would be requested. It is not even a question of accepting new medicines or other indications. This is also part of another process that provides the necessary scientific guarantees. It is therefore simply a matter, I insist, of organising a cannabis culture in Belgium for the purpose of scientific research and therapeutic interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, I rarely speak, but I want to do so on the basis of an amendment. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the work that is being done in the field of therapeutic cannabis in particular. I have introduced an amendment because I think that in cannabis policy in general we are living in an unbearable hypocrisy. You know that legally, cannabis remains completely banned in Belgium except for therapeutic cannabis when we vote earlier. His detention and culture, even at very low percentages, were punished. In 2005, the College of Attorneys General issued a circular, according to which personal use of cannabis, in particular, by a major person gave rise to a violation and that was to be the lowest level of prosecution policy. The current government, the minister, has made a royal decree that reinforces opacity. This order authorizes an end to this system that could have been described as tolerant. We are in an extremely blurred situation and we are complacent in hypocrisy. What is the reality? You know that today there are many offices (European, Belgian or foreign) that study cannabis. In our country, there are no less than 1.5 million respondents who report using cannabis. I don't know if you realize: 1.5 million citizens! The vast majority are young people. To acquire cannabis, these young people are thrown into the arms of mafia and criminal circles. I do not hide from you that this is not just a political issue. It's a moral question. It is unbearable to think that our young people must project themselves into criminal arms to acquire cannabis. In addition, the quality of products supplied by resellers is poor. All the analyses indicate that. It includes, for example, crushed glass, solvents and other very harmful products, which is totally unacceptable. The state, on the whole, uses a lot of means of repression: the police, the justice system, the prisons... But my experience as a mayor makes me say that when we call on the police, it intervenes in a place A. Of course, for a few days, this place is no longer frequented by dealers and dealers, but 500 meters or 1 km further, we find exactly the same trade for a simple reason: the demand is considerable. It is also said that the profits to criminal circles in our country would be in the range of 500 million to 1 billion a year. These are astronomical sums. Madam Minister and ladies and gentlemen, in order to defend this amendment, I simply want to refer to other countries. In Canada, for example, the current government has liberalized. The Liberal government can be catalogued as an open Liberal, since it has, among other things, raised the pension age to 65 years. Uruguay has also liberalized, as has the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, several American states and the Netherlands. It is urgent that our public authorities take control of the phenomenon and develop a policy that is beneficial to our citizens. Statistics show that in the most advanced countries I mentioned, there is no increase in cannabis use. It's even the opposite. It can be seen, with 40 years of decline, that average consumption in the Netherlands is below the European average. In the past, we have made arrangements for alcohol and tobacco. I don't see why we wouldn't make arrangements for cannabis as well. Our political and moral responsibility is engaged. I think we need to step in and allow cannabis. How? Very quickly: you know that there are more and more social cannabis clubs that are being created. Many are quickly discovered by the law enforcement community – the police or the judiciary. But across the country, hundreds and hundreds of people come together to work and see what we can do. I think we can work with these social cannabis clubs. They can grow and sell, under the control of a Belgian cannabis agency, which would itself be controlled by the Federal Medicines Agency. It would certainly not be without conditions. I already hear the comments: "Of course, it is the door open to debauchery. Everyone's gonna start smoking cannabis on the street." That's not the case. Sometimes I think some people would do it better, but I don't think that's the case. The conditions would be a legal ban on the sale of cannabis to minors. This would be a refusal to banishment; the prohibition of places suitable for consumption; the obligation of permanent quality control; traceability of the whole chain from the producer to the consumer; and the authorization of production and consumption in a personal capacity. The State would benefit significantly in terms of taxation and taxation. This money could be used to carry out real national prevention campaigns, indicating the effects of cannabis. Finally, if we approved this amendment, there would be a considerable reduction in the use of police officers, magistrates and judges. There would be more room in prisons. I have no doubt that colleagues will be attentive and will vote. I did not say how they would vote, but I hope it will be positive. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I invite you to step out of the hypocrisy in which we find ourselves and to take our young people out of the claws of criminal and mafia circles. I look forward to tonight's vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u107	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal aims to set up a public office under the control of the FAGG. This agency, the cannabis agency, will have to guarantee the full organisation of the cultivation of medicinal cannabis. The cannabis agency will have to provide the permits of the land on which it may be grown and the permits of the growers who will grow the medicinal cannabis. Through such legislation, we finally make it possible to grow medicinal cannabis in a legal way, under the strict control of the government and within the contours of evidence based medicine. For example, we respond to a real demand from the medical world and patients. Colleagues, more and more countries recognise the use of cannabis for medicinal purposes. Many studies prove the potential added value compared to classic pharmaceutical solutions. Madam Minister, as early as 2014, a working group in the FAGG focused on the issue of the medical use of cannabis in Belgium. This working group then concluded that there could be added value. It is important that these are specific cases where traditional medicines have little or no effect. Medical cannabis will have that, and in many cases can improve the quality of life of many patients. As far as public health is concerned, this represents an important step forward for many people. This will also have a huge impact on innovation and the economy. Belgium will be able to become a pioneer. In addition to leading work in biotech, a new axis is being developed here, especially the cannatech. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you and all your staff very much. You know it or you don't know it, colleagues, but Minister De Block's cabinet was almost finished with the text. However, due to the fall of the government, it was not possible to continue. That is why we in Parliament have taken the initiative to lay the legal basis for the creation of the cannabis agency. Many employees of the cabinet, the administration and the FAGG have contributed to this. I would like to thank them for their commitment to this. Together with us they write a piece of history that is important for many patients and for our country, both in terms of innovation and our economy. They, together with us, can be incredibly proud of that. I would also like to thank all the colleagues who have supported this proposal in committee, as well as all the colleagues who will be supporting it in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u108	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to intervene briefly on this proposal to establish the cannabis agency. This is very important to my party. Together with colleagues Lijnen and Thiéry, I have therefore tabled the amendment to set up the cannabis agency in the womb of the FAGG. The creation of the cannabis agency is a first, important step in allowing medicinal cannabis or better, the therapeutic use of cannabinoids. This has nothing to do with the legalization of cannabis, which is not at all the issue for us and which can never happen. CD&V will always be committed to the quality of life of people, especially those who are seriously ill. The medical use of cannabis or the therapeutic use of cannabinoids can mean a world of difference for these patients. We want to help create the legal framework and encourage scientific research to help these patients. For this, the cannabis agency, thanks to this bill, is of crucial importance. What is this agency supposed to be for in the end? The cannabis agency at the FAGG will be responsible for monitoring the production of cannabis for medical and scientific purposes. There is still a great deal of need for medical and scientific research into the therapeutic effects of cannabis-based medicines. Today there is Sativex, a spray that is refunded for MS patients. Many clinical studies have shown that the medicine is also good for ALS patients. Because of their condition they benefit more from a spray than from an oil, which they find difficult to swallow. It is therefore very important that Satifex becomes refundable for various diseases. Now that we will leverage the cannabis agency, I hope that several pharmaceutical companies will apply for it. It is very important for symptom relief in pain and severe muscle contractions. This may also delay disease progression. Those medications have proven very clearly that they can give the patients some comfort again. They sleep better and get appetite again. It is therefore important that we quickly market medicinal cannabis for that group of patients. This requires a cannabis agency at the BFSA. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to support the Minister's proposal on the cannabis agency. Many patient groups testified that they were illegally fetching cannabis oil in the Netherlands, because other medicines do not offer enough comfort. I do not think that is a good thing, because self-medication is never a good thing. Therefore, it is necessary that we quickly receive medical scientific research with clinical tests to ensure that there is a tailor-made product for those patient groups. Then they won't take the wrong doses and we'll stop them from getting sicker by misusing cannabis oil. The ultimate goal is to market medicines and make them available in Belgium. Certain doctors-specialists can then prescribe cannabinoids for some therapeutic treatments and pharmacists can obtain them in their form with recognition by the BFSA and use the raw materials for majestic preparations. The medicines should then become available to all patient groups for which clinical studies have shown that medicinal cannabis is the only medicine that contributes to their quality of life. That's the future for us. For us, it is a step-by-step approach. The first step is the creation of the cannabis agency. Any step we can take to improve the quality of life of seriously ill people in a safe and scientifically based way must of course be taken. I would like to thank all those who contributed to this, including the Minister and her cabinet, which allowed us to table the amendment. I would also like to thank the ALS League. She made the move for my motion for a resolution, which in the end was not dealt with, but which was in the spirit of the legislative proposal. For the ALS League, it is important that we do not mix the debate with the legalisation of drugs. She doesn't want to be associated with drug users. She wants to be known for her plea for medicines that are not accessible today, while increasing the quality of life. So I would strongly urge that today's debate on medicines should not be mixed with the legalisation of cannabis. That is why we cannot accept the PS amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u109	Madam Minister, I will begin by addressing the therapeutic cannabidiol component. As much as we do not support the legalization of cannabis, we support the advances in the therapeutic use of cannabidiol. Moreover, the latter already exists in Belgium. Indeed, some seem to believe that it is this bill that will allow the use of therapeutic cannabidiol, but it already exists with Sativex. Moreover, Madam Minister, it is quite interesting to note the lack of availability, apart from Sativex, of therapeutic cannabidiol for Belgian patients who suffer from refractory epilepsy or certain types of severe chronic pain, particularly oncological, for which other analgesics are not effective. This lack of availability in Belgium raises questions. In my view, this issue should have been handled for some time. Indeed, this reduced availability of medicines in neighbouring countries has led, and probably has facilitated, to the establishment of a wide range of small businesses that sell cannabidiol without compliance with current legislation, which is obviously a problem. We therefore support this part of the bill. However, the rest of the bill raises a number of questions as the exact scope of the various articles is difficult to assess precisely. It includes potentially negative pitfalls. And, as I said in committee, I regret above all – I have opposed this article – the very clear increase in an existing tax for pharmacists, hospital pharmacists and veterinarians. I absolutely cannot support this additional taxation for pharmacists. I am opposed to this operative part of your bill. For the rest, given my favourable position with therapeutic cannabidiol, we will abstain from the entire device.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u110	Minister, we will abstain from this bill because we believe that the strategy is not sufficiently clear. To argue that if a sector requires more self-control, it is normal for it to bear the cost, it seems to us a little short as a reasoning. We are thinking above all of the consequences for small compendia. However, I would like to point out that we appreciate the creation of a cannabis office. As I had already pointed out on the occasion of parliamentary questions a year ago, we regret that the Royal Decree of 15 June 2015 formally prohibits the distribution of cannabis for medical purposes in Belgium. Only Sativex can be used in the treatment of aggressive pain due to multiple sclerosis and is only reimbursed in this case, and in case of delivery by the hospital pharmacist on prescription from a neurologist. However, there is an increasing number of voices in favour of use to calm pain, for example in the case of fibromyalgia or cancer. According to some publications, it also has anti-epileptic properties. Therefore, we want to reform the use of medical cannabis on the basis of scientific data and in particular on the basis of developments abroad. Several countries, such as Germany, Austria, Finland, Italy and recently the United Kingdom, allow this. France is also studying the question of the treatment of pain refractory to accessible therapies, certain forms of epilepsy, in oncology support care and palliative situations. We support the chapter of the bill that establishes a cannabis office and will follow with interest the outcome of all of its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u111	Are there any other colleagues who would like to speak? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u112	Mr President, I would like to comment very briefly on the fact that Mr Di Rupo had written an amendment which was somewhat in the wrong place. His amendment concerns the legalisation of the use of cannabis and is therefore actually part of the Committee on Justice and not within the framework of legislation relating to the competence of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. I believe it is advantageous to create the possibility of having a product grown under the control of AFMPS, stabilized, of which one is certain of the dosage, to relieve patients who need it and according to indications that are evidence-based. I am not in favour of the amendment to the PS because it is something to be discussed in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3519/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3519/5) The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal to amend provisions concerning the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products as well as the establishment of a cannabis agency." The title has been amended by the committee to propose legislation amending provisions for the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and on the establishment of a cannabis office". The bill has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u115	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u116	Sustained: the amendment and Article 26.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u117	Articles 1 and 2 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u118	Article 3 is amended to read Articles 4/2 and 4/3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u119	Article 3 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u120	Articles 4 to 25 shall be adopted as well as Annexes I, II, III, III/1, III/2, IV to IX.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u121	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u123	Mr President, I refer to the comprehensive written report. We had a nice discussion at first and second reading. I think colleagues have had enough time to read the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u124	Mr President, today we are voting on the quality of the healthcare professions. There are a lot of good things in this, but there is also something very important not to mention, in particular the language requirement. How can we adopt a quality law for healthcare professionals today if the language is not included in it? That is something that I and my group do not understand. Everyone agrees that language is important in a good relationship between patients and caregivers. Who doesn't agree that people should know the same language, especially caregivers and patients, to have a good relationship? Doesn't anyone agree? I find it strange that our amendment and the language requirement, which we have been asking for so long, should not be incorporated into the law. I went to look back. I also find the discourse scandalous. In 2015, at the beginning of the parliamentary legislature, we already informed the Minister that the influx of foreign healthcare professionals was problematic and that language requirements had to be addressed. My first parliamentary presentation on this matter dates back to 2015. At that time, the Minister replied that she would still be sitting with the Inter-Ministerial Conference in which nine competent ministers sit. How is it possible to ever get anything decent out of there? I was told that there was a protocol signed there that would allocate the transposition of the EU Directive 2013/55, in particular to the federal level. At that time, the Minister assured me that he would deal with the problem of language skills. Meanwhile it is 2019 and the design is ahead, but it is still not in it. We found the delay a disgrace at the time. I have asked several parliamentary questions on this since 2015, both in the hemisphere and in the committee. Since nothing concrete came out of the bus, we have also put forward a legislative proposal on the subject ourselves. This happened in mid-2017. At that time we were even assured that our proposal would indeed be supported and even incorporated into the WUG Act, which, of course, did not happen. We have tried to table an amendment, but we have also found that the other parties do not support it and therefore do not support it. It is a real disgrace, especially since the arguments cited are misconceptions. However, the Minister, who is supposed to know the law well, refers to the Constitution, while the Council of State has made a very clear statement on the Article 30 in question, which cannot indeed impose the language, but rather the language. I quote from the Council of State's opinion on Article 23, the current Article 30: 'It is to be read that the Constitution does guarantee the use of the language and does not oppose the establishment, as in this case, of conditions of professional activity in the interest of public health which concern only the knowledge of one language or another'. That seems very clear to me. I also just asked who cares about language and who doesn't. When I asked who doesn't care about language, I didn't count fingers in the hemisphere, so I assume that everyone thinks it's very important that caregivers and patients know the same language. That reading of the opinion of the Council of State makes it very clear that language and language skills are two separate legal entities, and that is why we have written our legislative proposal as follows: it seeks knowledge of the language and does not impose its use, so that it would indeed pass the test with the Constitution. In addition, a language test for healthcare professionals from outside the EU is already in place today. So we do not see the problem there either. There are also examples of the application in other Member States. In Ireland and the Balearic Islands, a language test has been imposed on the local language. It would also provide a solution to the large influx of doctors and healthcare professionals from abroad. One in five doctors, one in three dentists and one in ten nurses come from abroad. For the first categories, it is totally irresponsible for us to impose an entrance examination ourselves, while allowing the influx from abroad without any condition for quality, such as language skills. You know that in our legislative proposal and in our amendment we ask for the knowledge of the language of the language area in question, which implies that our Dutch-speaking patients in Flanders are helped in Dutch, but also that Walloon patients are helped in French. Another argument you cite is that a patient always has a free choice. That's right, there's a free choice of caregiver, but of course it doesn't apply in emergencies. Just as one is in need, in an emergency, knowledge of the language is particularly important. One must be able to express what is going on so that a healthcare professional can quickly identify the needs and make a correct diagnosis. That's just vital. The last reason you always cite, while the law on the rights of the patient stipulates that the language requirement must be met, is the cost. I still haven't seen the cost. Moreover, for the N-VA, human life is worth more than some principles about facilities municipalities and misdemeanours about the Constitution and the Council of State. For us, a human life is worth a lot. We think language skills are very important and we think it is very important that caregivers and patients understand each other so that lives can be saved in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u125	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as my group did in committee, today it will abstain from this text, which aims to ensure safe, quality and interdisciplinary care for the patient. We support the objective of this bill. But we believe that there are still too many gaps. I will not be too long today as we have had ample time to discuss the various elements in committee. This text on the quality of care practice, which we were waiting for, should have been a small revolution for the benefit of patients above all and of care professionals, of course. But there is no revolution! While we can certainly point to some improvements, it is interesting to see the gap and even the obvious reverse between the original texts and the bill that is finally introduced. For example, I am thinking of the elements to be included in the patient file, "Possible incidents during the delivery of health care(...)", which have disappeared from the final text. A small element that could have been a real step forward in terms of patients' rights with this impression of too much latitude left to care professionals at all levels. You do not set any clear objectives in terms of competence and training related, for example, to communication, health inequalities, literacy as part of the portfolio. Finally, you only plan to characterise the patient if it is relevant, which remains very unclear. You are planning a necessary framework of benefits without determining any requirements in this regard. You let healthcare professionals fully manage the continuity of care through emergency and transfer procedures, again completely indefinite. You plan a quality control and practice, organized by the practitioners themselves. But it is difficult to see a real commitment to greater transparency and independence, with this impression also of an obligation vis-à-vis the highly calibrated and measured health professionals; with sanctions that are rare and following very untransparent procedures. We deeply regret that. In our view, this text only adds an additional layer to the current legislation. New legislation alongside the Patients' Rights Act, the Care Professions Act 2015, the Hospitals Act, and the Royal Orders relating to the various orders. In short, it is a multiplication of legislation, which in no way tends to increase transparency for patients or professionals. Like the Council of State, we still do not see the value of having opted for ad hoc legislation, even though you could have improved and strengthened existing legislation. As the Council of State also points out, you are creating new supervisory bodies, whose roles will not really be known how they relate to those of existing bodies. This comes to create an incredible nebula. In general, therefore, in our view, this text is far from being a significant step forward in improving quality and practice, and therefore for patients. On the other hand, I would like once again to justify our group's opposition to the amendment tabled by Mrs Fonck and adopted in committee concerning the differentiated reimbursement of health benefits for midwives, kines, nurses and paramedics, depending on whether or not the claimant is in agreement. We see it as a real danger for patients. We are not the only ones who share this view. The insurers gathered in an intermutualist college shared with us their concerns about the likely consequences of this change. Like us, they believe that, while the stated objective of the measure is to improve the financial accessibility of care for patients who are now less reimbursed when they consult an unconventional care provider, there is a fear that the professions concerned will be deconcentrated. The final impact of the measure, precisely on patients, could then be quite negative and the opposite of the objective sought. As formulated, the amendment does not offer any guarantee in terms of the level of agreement and therefore no financial guarantee to the patient who will probably pay more for his care in the future, if the number of uncontracted providers concerned becomes more important. As has also been pointed out by insurers, the current legislation marks the differentiated reimbursement mechanism in order to protect patients, particularly the most vulnerable, socio-economically and in terms of health. Indeed, the reduction in the reimbursement rate for uncontracted providers applies only in the case of a sufficient number of contracted providers to ensure access to the care concerned. Furthermore, the 25% reduction does not apply to beneficiaries of the increased assistance. In addition, it is accounted for in the maximum amount to be billed, in order to protect patients who accumulate significant health care costs. Like mutualities, we believe that the authors of these amendments are wrong and that it would be more useful to open a debate on our system of agreements and conventions with all the actors concerned, by considering the whole issue. We will have to do so with the common ambition of ensuring the accessibility and price security of patients and the high quality of our health care. In conclusion, I confirm our group's abstention from the whole text and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u126	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today we are taking a very important step with this draft law on the quality of health care practice. I have already said it in committee; we have started this legislature with the ambition for three large yards. As far as hospitals are concerned, we have tried to tackle hospital funding in particular. We have taken a very important first step in this respect with the introduction of low-variable care. A while ago, we also approved the legislation on hospital networks. This too was a very important basic piece of legislation, which partly places the responsibilities on the Communities and has to achieve cooperation between hospitals in the next legislative period. The re-evaluation of the nomenclature is a more difficult issue. We all know that, Madam Secretary, but that is not your responsibility. Here in the hemisphere there are people who have been difficult to make progress in the previous two legislatures in this area. Finally, I would like to raise an important point, the revision of Royal Decree No. 78 on the organization of care professions in our country. There are many needs in this area. After all, the care, the activities, the care professions, the training courses are changing rapidly. There are also new needs and the new healthcare professions that respond to them also want to get a place in that greatly changed healthcare landscape today. All this lies at the basis of the legislation we are going to vote on today, which is a first important step in the organisation of that care landscape, including provisions relating to the establishment of a practice and the establishment of watchkeeping services. We therefore support the proposed text. Today, however, we are in a completely changed landscape, for example on the exchange of data between healthcare providers and patients. There is also the impact of GDPR legislation. In the light of this, the design of pedestal law regulates this in connection with the consent of the patient and the care provider, but there are also many actions outside the relationship between the care provider and the patient. For example, other people, such as social workers, decide on the scaling-up of people with disabilities, for example in residential care centres. We were afraid that restrictions would apply in this area, a fear that we shared with different bodies, but the extensive discussions and the various readings of the text brought clarity. The Minister was able to give sufficient guarantees that quality would be preserved. I should like briefly to express a purely political position on the last point raised by Mr Senesael. These are the amendments adopted on kinesi therapy. It is quite clear to us: we are very strong in favour of convening. For us one may even evolve towards maximum convention, but then one no longer speaks of convention. In any case, we are opposed to partial convening. We really want healthcare professionals to sign agreements, but we want to encourage them with positive rather than negative incentives. For us, the patient should not be punished for the choice made by the care professional, all the more so because the patient does not always opt for a non-conventional care provider, as he or she arrives by referral from a doctor or specialist. Patients are paying more today. We do not consider them to be fair by reducing the refund by 25%. We believe that, through positive incentives, the government should ensure that as many healthcare professionals as possible are in agreement. That's possible. Look at certain healthcare professions. In the case of doctors there is a very high degree of convention, even though I must admit that the 25% measure has never been applied there. This is mainly due to the positive stimuli. We therefore believe that we should focus more on positive stimuli and that patients should not be abused in the story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u127	Mr President, many things have been said by Mrs Muylle and I am not going to repeat them. I would just like to remind you that we are talking about a project that creates a legislative framework. This is a comprehensive approach, but it is fundamental as it will ensure the quality and security of services. We adhere to it because, as we have been asking for four and a half years, it puts the patient's interest at the centre of the debate. Once again, setting up a framework to ensure the quality and safety of services will benefit patients first and foremost. It is important to report it. In addition, the text is part of the government agreement which provided that "the competences of health practitioners shall be reviewed and adjusted in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity assigning the tasks to providers who provide the required care with maximum efficiency and quality. Greater attention will be paid to the organisation of multidisciplinary collaboration". This is therefore a further achievement of this government. Which says multidisciplinary means taking care of the patient, i.e. the patient placed at the center of the debates. I would add that this bill in draft is a framework law that will require enforcement orders. I will not be much longer even if I want to go back to the comments made on the use of languages in the field of practitioners. We have had this discussion on several occasions in committee. We have concluded that the way in which we currently operate in Belgium, with the knowledge of one of the three national languages, allows patients to be treated in their language throughout our territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u128	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my group Ecolo-Green is very fond of the idea of this law. In fact, we think this is very good. This law will ensure a coherent legal framework of quality requirements, with a view to ensuring quality and safe benefits for healthcare professionals. In this law, you have worked out fourteen aspects in great detail. I am not going to go over them all, of course, but I would like to highlight a number of aspects in order to explain the positive position of our group. It is very important that these quality requirements apply regardless of the setting where a health professional is employed, whether in a hospital, outside a hospital, in a conventional practice or in a non-conventional practice. This is a very important positive point. Even more important to us, and that will not surprise you, is that this law also helps the enforceability of patients' rights and thus strengthens the law on patients' rights. Of course, my group is very fond of this, as this law was established under Minister Magda Aelvoet. Another very important point is the competence, the portfolio, visa-worthyness and sufficient training. This is absolutely a positive point. Furthermore, there is also the obligation to participate in permanences which, in practice, poses a problem in some occupational groups, with specific provisions for general practitioners. The guarantee of continuity is also anchored. In addition, it clarifies what practical information may mean and what the difference is with advertising and recruiting patients. Finally, there is also the register of practice. So no one can oppose the principles in the present law. The text does contain a number of tricky points. For example, in committee, we have had vigorous discussions on access to the file, on who is given access to it and on how information from a file can be shared. Madam Minister, supported by GDPR legislation and the Council of State, you have answered very well the various arguments of the field of work. That does not alter the fact that I understand the concerns of the field of work, especially since there are still a few things to settle through an inter-ministerial conference, which creates some uncertainty for the field of work. Transition and change generally raise some resistance. It is therefore also good that a sufficiently broad transitional period has been provided for. A dampening of my happiness in this law is Articles 85 and 86, which were adopted at second reading through an amendment. We have received from the National Intermutualist College a letter which I, as committee chairman, delivered to all Members. The College expresses very well what I said at the committee meeting. You know that I was the only one who voted against on that point. I would like to stress once again that we must move towards more convention rather than less. Only more covenanting ensures more tariff security for the patient. The system of differentiated reimbursement was intended as an incentive to convention and certainly not to deconvention. The differentiated system currently exists only for certain professions and it would be good if we could find alternative incentives. That method is good for me too, as long as we achieve a high level of convention. For example, why not make a tariff agreement between health insurance funds and health care providers binding, such as a collective agreement, and why not abolish the disconcerting part-time or part-time agreement for patients? I'll come to my decision. Our group is very fond of the draft law, but will abstain because of these articles, which are at the expense of the patient's tariff security and which implicitly encourage deconvention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u129	Mr. President, Madam Minister, there are some positive measures, such as those relating to continuity of care, the patient's records, the patient's control of people who have access to his or her file, etc. On the other hand, there are other points that are clearly problematic, namely how inspectors have access to the premises where health professionals provide care or how you entrust certain elements to the King. We have also tabled a series of amendments on the possibility for a professional to communicate information to another professional at the request of the patient, on professional information which must clearly state the status of the health care professional's agreement in order to guarantee information upstream. We have also tabled amendments on the explicit reference to telemedicine, which, as you know, is becoming an increasingly important issue. Finally, we proposed, to mention just a few examples, that the patient's data should be explicitly disclosed, requiring the consent of the patient or his representative, which is not the case in your text, especially when it comes to inspection by inspectors, even though they have direct access to the file. In addition, we have tabled an amendment to remove the difference in reimbursement according to the treaty status of physiotherapists, as several colleagues have already mentioned. We were able to make positive progress for physiotherapists, but also for midwives. It is a pity that the government has provided for this measure to come into force only at a later date. That being said, with regard to the letter from the Intermutualist Agency that we have received, but also the comments from some colleagues, I find it quite disturbing that the way of agreement is carried by a tool that punishes the patient. This is a paradox which is completely non-existent on the part of doctors. This punishment of the patient in terms of less reimbursement does not exist for doctors, even though, in a series of specializations, the conventioning is high, which is of course positive. As much as I am in favour of the widest possible agreement that is important in terms of patient tariff safety, so much the way in which this patient sanction is used to try to obtain a higher agreement is, in my view, a very bad way. Today, about 80% of physiotherapists are contracted. In my opinion, there won't be a lot of deconventions. Otherwise, there would obviously be similar deconcentration rates on the part of physicians and dentists, which is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, the most important thing is elsewhere. Rather than a policy of sanctioning patients, I am advocating for an incentive policy to contract out health professionals with positive measures. That is how we can continue to maximize the patient's tariff security. Minister, a series of measures could be taken to increase the agreement of health professionals. It's about this kind of incentive policy that I'm putting on. It was not implemented under this legislature. Moreover, let us acknowledge that the breach of trust with health professionals is likely not to encourage a significant agreement. Finally, on this text, I shall vote in favour of abolishing the sanction of patients. Conversely, I will abstain from the various other aspects of this bill. Indeed, as I explained in committee, we had a somewhat different approach. But you never know, I could vote in favour of your quality of care bill, if the patient amendments could be approved here in plenary. Mr President, it would have been interesting for me to vote separately on the operative part of this law. As I have just made clear, our position will be to abstain on the bill but to vote in favour of the amendments that I tabled in committee, particularly on physiotherapists and midwives. These amendments have been passed and are now incorporated into the bill. This will make it easier for us to do our job without a number of votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u130	Mr President, I did not intend to take the floor, but I would nevertheless like to endorse what Mrs Dedry said about Articles 84 and 85, which have been added to this draft by amendment. I would like to make the following reservations. In our opinion, maximum convention is one of the ways to guarantee price security for the patient. Adding these articles will remove an important incentive for the care provider to optimise tariff security. That is why we cannot accept it at all. As far as our general attitude to this draft is concerned, we shall abstain from the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important law because it creates a framework for better multidisciplinary cooperation between healthcare professionals. There is also the principle of subsidiarity in the definition of the various professions of care. This has been preceded by a lot of consultation, not only with all the actors in the field but also with the umbrella bodies of the patient organisations. After the start-up conference, there was a very broad survey of all actors. Anyone could react digitally at that time. I believe that there is an effective need for a framework for the practice of medicine in our country which does not operate under the same conditions as before. There is now much more need for new care professions and multidisciplinary cooperation. This law actually builds on the law on patients' rights, of which I was one of the proposers in 2002. In the first steps towards the reform of the health professions legislation, priority was given to the framework law. There will, of course, have to be a follow-up. We will then be able to better define the different division of tasks between the different actors in the healthcare professions, as Mrs Muylle said earlier. It is also important that quality is stated here and that it should be the same no matter where medical care is provided. Whether it is in a hospital, an outpatient practice or a private hospital, the quality requirements in practice should be the same. That's important to the patients. They obviously have a free choice, but they need to know that they will always be given high-quality medical care, whatever their institution. This quality law should be read as a lex specialise in relation to the law on patients' rights of 22 August 2002. In principle, it also lays down a number of rights for the patient. The objective is to improve the enforceability of the patient and its monitoring. It is right that patients' associations were asking for the draft framework law to be adopted during this legislature. Associations of doctors and nurses have also expressed their support for this Quality Framework Act. I would therefore like to thank the authors and all those who contributed to it. This law will enable an important step forward. I therefore call on the sector to work together to implement it. Mrs Van Camp, I have explained to you up to three or four times that your amendment is actually contrary to the allocation of powers. The issuing of the visa would be linked to the exercise of the healthcare profession in a given language area. In other words, the visa limits the exercise to a particular region or community. If a Flemish healthcare professional wants to be active on the entire territory, this will only be possible if he or she takes an additional language examination. The proposal implies that federal legislation waives the competence to determine the conditions for the exercise of a healthcare profession. This cannot, of course, be the intention, since this is contrary to the division of powers between the Federal State, Communities and Regions, as governed by successive state reforms. Undesirable effects in practice would occur. For example, the treatment of a French-speaking patient on Dutch-speaking territory should be subject to a visa certifying the knowledge of the French language and vice versa. This means that the care provider can only treat patients in the language of the language area, even if they are facilities municipalities. People are free to go wherever they want. They choose the healthcare provider who is powerful in their language. There's nothing wrong with that. With regard to Mrs Fonck's amendments on the convention rate, I recognise that positive incentives are needed. There are those positive incentives, Mrs Muylle. These are the benefits given to the care providers because they provide a tariff security, as Mrs Jiroflée says. They are therefore given a social status which is being built up and which is always getting better over the years. The positive incentive for kinesis is the social rate. The positive incentive for the patient to go to someone who's conventioned is about 84 percent of the kinesis in our country has been conventioned, so you won't have any trouble finding one in your neighborhood, is the fact that there is a higher refund. You turn it around, and that's really crazy, if I may put it that way. I can only say that the arguments in the letter from the Intermutualist Agency, which speaks with knowledge, are justified. It was often about convening, but that is only a small part that was wanted to be added by means of amendments. Those amendments should not actually be tabled in the Committee on Health, but in the Committee on Social Affairs, because it concerns a RIZIV power. There have been many amendments that have been tabled which have also concerned other legislation. There was just an amendment on the legalisation of cannabis, while the draft concerned the regulation of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. Anything's possible now, apparently. However, this must not undermine the great progress we are making in terms of quality of care, and that is what I am talking about: our patients must be well cared for and the quality of care must be the best possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u133	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3441/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3441/9) The draft law has 88 articles. The bill has 88 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u134	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 50 – Catherine Fonck (3441/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u135	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u136	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 3, 16, 19, 27, 28, 31, 33, 35, 38 and 52. Reserved: Amendments and Articles 3, 16, 19, 27, 28, 31, 33, 35, 38 and 52. Article adopted by article: 1, 2, 4 to 15, 17, 18, 20 to 26, 29, 30, 32, 34, 36, 37, 39 to 51 and 53 to 88. Adopted article by article: 1, 2, 4-15, 17, 18, 20-26, 29, 30, 32, 34, 36, 37, 39-51 and 53-88. ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u137	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2076: Catherine Fonck - 2710, Karin Jiroflée, Monica De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u138	I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these two motions for resolutions. I propose that you devote one discussion to these two motions for resolutions. The texts adopted by the committee shall form the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2076/3) (2710/4) The texts adopted by the committee serve as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2076/3) (2710/4) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u139	Mr President, of course I refer to the written report – but it is excellent. I shall speak briefly on behalf of my group shortly, depending on the other interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these few words – which will not surprise you – will serve to confirm our support for these two motions for resolutions. They commit this government and its successors to the right path, so that patients can obtain glasses or lenses more easily. Their cost is indeed a brake on many of our fellow citizens. According to a recent Test-Achats barometer, 26% of those in need of glasses still felt that their purchase was a very difficult, if not impossible, expense. It will not surprise anyone that our group fully supports the reduction of VAT from 21 % to 6 %. To this end, together with our colleagues in the Sp.a., we have tabled amendments on several occasions. Unfortunately, they were never able to obtain the necessary support. Yet health is clearly not a luxury product. Eye correction is a basic necessity for anyone who needs it, whether he is a child, a teenager or an adult. Finally, I repeat, access to our health care has been strained under this legislature, as evidenced by the two billion savings, of which a significant proportion has weighed directly on the patient's portfolio. They have also resulted in the inability to meet unmet needs. I'm thinking of glasses, hearing aids, or orthodontic and prosthetic treatments. It is high time to reverse this trend. I hope today that this government and the next one will hear the message and implement the recommendations contained in these texts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u141	Mr President, this is a resolution, which is coming to the end of the legislature. Even if there is a problem of accessibility, it is also important to know what type of reimbursement can be applied. We were looking at an approach that took into account the severity of cases. I have found that between the two proposals made here there is a fundamental difference: in one, we find the reimbursement of the mounts; in the other, we do not. It is well known that the reduction of VAT on the frame will depend on the price. It would therefore have been important to make this difference. She wasn't. It is known that the cost of the measure is around EUR 100 million. This is a resolution. The reason why we abstained in committee and will still abstain today is that we do not think it is right to make the expected changes in the sector happen quickly, when we do not know whether the budget will be released by the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the heading 'Hearing, seeing and laughing must not be luxury', we have been taking action on social media for two years. In the same context, we have submitted three resolutions on dental care, hearing and hearing aids and eye disorders over the last two years. We have done so because we are convinced that there is growing inequality in health care and especially in those treatments that are fundamental to living a decent life. A few weeks ago we could read in a Test Purchase study that in 2017 97 139 Flemings had to go to the OCMW before, in our eyes, very normal and obvious concerns such as glasses, go to the dentist, but also for example for school invoices. It is scandalous that, in a society such as ours, we must ask for help for this kind of thing, which is part of a dignified life. I'd like to give you a few figures. The latest edition of the Health Survey shows that 8 percent of households indicate that financial barriers have caused them to delay medical care, dental care, prescription medicines, glasses or mental care over the last 12 months. We think that is a sign that our health care is suffering from a number of unmet needs. In another study, a survey of our socialist mutualities, 24% of respondents said that they should opt for a cheaper alternative for financial reasons when it comes to health care and 6% even indicated that they would not buy glasses or lenses completely for financial reasons. In our consideration, another element is important for the patient bill, in particular the fact that only eight out of ten opticians are involved. The non-conventioned opticians will refund 25 %. This is the same system I was talking about earlier. We do not believe that this situation should continue. Our resolution on dental care and hearing aids was voted down in committee. However, the resolution on eye care and means of remedying eye defects reached the plenary session. I therefore hope that this resolution will be adopted so that a new government can get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue on several occasions. I would like to say again here how much eyeglasses or eye lenses are not luxury. This is about corrections, isn't it, minister? [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u144	I didn't mention the hearing problem, but the visual problem. I'm myself myopic. But that's not why I'm working on this case. This is a real handicap. This is a problem for children who are being tested as early as possible, and so much the better. In any case, it is a question of inescapable treatment, indispensable for any age of life. I would also like to point out that it is quite interesting to note that in our case the patient's cost is one of the highest in the European Union. Today, repayments are excessively light, as we must have a visual deficit of more than 8.25 diopters. Basically, it is necessary to be almost blind so that adults can benefit from mutual intervention. For children, interventions are planned earlier, but they are not sufficient to adapt the corrections to the evolution of myopia or other problems of visual deficit. This resolution has crossed the course of the committee. It will probably cross the course of the plenary session. Having said that, I heard my colleague from the MR say that a resolution may not be the best choice because we were going to make it look like we could change things before the end of this Parliament, and I would tell him that he had the opportunity to act by, for example, reducing the VAT rate to 6% on glasses, the day he did it for flowers and plants. In my view, it would still have been logical to think first and foremost of the patients who need glasses or lenses and for whom it is an unavoidable treatment of a recognized visual handicap and which can be particularly serious. You chose flowers and plants and refused to choose a first step in reducing the cost of glasses and lentils and improving accessibility for patients. That's too bad! So it is only a small step that has been taken today. Tomorrow, perhaps, we will be able to take a little more ambitious steps. I will give you an appointment shortly because I intend to return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u145	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u146	The vote on the proposals will take place later. The vote on the proposals will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u147	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karine Lalieux, André Frédéric, Laurette Onkelinx, Daniel Senesael, Fabienne Winckel, Nawal Ben Hamou.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u149	Mr President, I am referring to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a further important step was taken on 12 March in the Committee on Public Health to improve access to female contraception and to strengthen women's right to dispose of their bodies. Thanks to the socialist bill, we will allow more women to have free access to contraception. Our fight isn't from yesterday. In fact, already in 2004, Rudy Demotte, then Minister of Health, had allowed free contraception for girls under 21 years of age if the doctor prescribed the cheapest contraceptive. Then, a new step was taken when Laurette Onkelinx, also Minister of Health, made sure that those under 21 years of age no longer have to renew the application annually to benefit from the free pill. On 12 March, a further breakthrough was achieved in the Health Committee. I thank all my colleagues. We have indeed received the support of all the parties in this Parliament, with the well-known exception of the N-VA, which I regret. I'll talk about it in a second. We have obtained that free access to contraception is extended to all women under the age of 25. I don't understand how we can be against this! This free access will also concern the next day's pill, which will be extended to all women, regardless of their age. The objectives of this bill are the same as in 2004: to improve access to contraception and emergency contraception, with the aim of reducing the number of unwanted pregnancies and guaranteeing women the right to free disposal of their bodies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the PS Group, access to contraception, and therefore full health care coverage, should be extended to all women. But for budgetary reasons, and because we are reasonable with the state budget, as a first step, we extend the measure only to young women under the age of 25. Why are you under the age of 25? There are two important reasons. On the one hand, it is the increase in poverty among young people. The latest barometer of social integration shows an increase in the number of young people under 25 dependent on social integration income. They were "only" 22,675 in January 2016, compared to more than 43,600 today. In two years, there has been an increase of almost 20,000 young people under the age of 25 who have access to social integration income. We know that many of them are women. On the other hand, although this is not directly related, according to the latest available figures, which unfortunately date back to 2011, it is found that about 40 per cent of the 4,000 women aged 20-24 who used abortions did not use contraceptives. You know how I regret – and again there was a negative vote in the Health Committee yesterday – that this country has still not decriminalized abortion completely and truly. We have had lengthy debates on this subject here. In these lengthy debates, those who did not vote for the total decriminalization of abortion, i.e., N-VA, MR, CD&V, cdH and Open Vld, all said that access to contraception and the next day's pill needed to be strengthened to avoid abortions. I see the N-VA says yes. I do not understand why she voted against this in the Committee on Health. But here, one doesn't replace the other. Indeed, we are responding with this bill to those who voted against the actual decriminalization of abortion. How much will it cost, minister? This will cost €6 million, according to INAMI figures. This is little compared to the 26 billion in the annual health care budget. Admit that $6 million, even for Mr. Van Rompuy, it's cheap! It is also very little, Madam Minister, in view of the gifts you regularly give to the pharmaceutical industry, since the slate left to health care is 600 million euros. It is also very little in view of the significant savings you have made with regard to the health care budget: EUR 2 billion under this Parliament. There is therefore no reason, Madam Minister, to block this bill which, I would remind you, has been widely voted on in committee. Unfortunately, there was no reason to table an amendment, signed by the MR, the Vld and the CD&V, which wished to make the implementation of this measure conditional upon the adoption of a royal order. In the meantime, Madam Minister, and I regret it, you said that you would not take it under this Parliament. In fact, Mr. Reynders doesn't understand why. Because, Mr. Reynders, even in day-to-day business, we can take this kind of royal decree! Because, Madam Minister, you have done so, for another policy, which we support. You have released €5 million from the health care budget to combat obesity. But what you can do for the fight against obesity, you can do also for women's access to contraception. Minister, I will ask you only one question. Do you intend to make this order before the end of the legislature? It's a stop, it's done very quickly and you can do it. Madam Minister, I ask you to do so, otherwise this vote will not be a reality for women for a long time. In terms of women's rights, certain rights that were thought to have been acquired are still being challenged. I think that we have missed the opportunity for a real decriminalization of abortion under this legislature. For my group, it is obvious that every woman must be able to dispose of her body. It is an inalienable and imprescriptible fundamental right. We are making a breakthrough today and I ask the Minister of Health to take this step with us without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Lalieux has already said, the N-VA is against this bill. I will try to explain our attitude, with all the nuances that this file deserves. The N-VA does consider prevention to be important, but we also consider the division of competences in this country to be important. For us, it is clear that this bill is tailored to the Walloon family planning centres. Please note, I welcome the growing understanding in Wallonia that prevention is important and essential for good health care. Only it bothers me a little that, as soon as it comes to prevention, cherrypicking is done. The French Community is usually the worst pupil of the class when it comes to prevention. We should think about vaccinations, including HPV, but not just HPV. On the other hand, there is a great commitment to prevention if the bill can be transferred to the federal cashier. Repayment of medicinal products is a federal competence. Consequently, this prevention is carried out diligently in the French-speaking part of the country. Regardless of how you turn it, both contraceptive pills and the morning-after pill are medicines. And drugs have side effects. Hormonal preparations are not sweets. For example, there is an increased risk of clotting, especially when hormonal preparations are taken in combination with smoking. It is therefore irresponsible for us to distribute these resources without medical supervision, without the guidance of a central figure who knows and succeeds the patient's file, such as a general practitioner. Our group does not believe in a free story either. Someone has to pay the bill. Let this bill just forgot that bill. Besides, it bothers me that it's a free story for everyone. The majority of women in this age group do not need this intervention at all. The budget would be much better spent if only the weakest in society were taken into account. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the former coalition partners have gone along with this. They did do a little trick, though. They tabled an amendment to allow the execution date to be determined by a royal decree. That actually makes the law an empty box. Its implementation may thus have to wait until the end of the day. The N-VA group fits for a symbolic free story, a month before the elections, as a nice bonus and a certain form of clientelism. We will therefore not approve the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u152	Mr President, of course we will support this proposal. Of course, we are very much in favour of improving the accessibility of contraception for young girls and the next day's pill. It is true that the cost of contraception and the next day's pill should in no way be a brake on our young girls. On the other hand, in committee, I have put a great deal of emphasis on the concepts of education and prevention. We note that young girls are not always aware of the different methods of contraception. They don't always apply them in the right way. These are elements that really need to be taken into account. I have even pointed out that it may be interesting, in the context of school education, to consider the creation of additional courses or information which would probably limit the use of the next day's pill. In the current situation and with a view to such complementary courses, we will support this proposal very constructively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal extends the free provision of contraception to all women up to 25 years. So far, women under the age of 21 have only been able to do so. Hope in the longer term is, of course, the refund for all women. In addition to contraception, all women, regardless of their age, would now have free access to the morning-after pill. In particular, low-income women benefit from this measure. In this way we improve a little more equal access to contraception and make young women less dependent and more boss over their own body. We very much welcome that from our group. This is, as far as we are concerned, mainly a social measure, and he has our full support in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u154	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, sexual and reproductive rights are human rights that all women should enjoy. Yet, as with many rights, some women enjoy them and others do not. This is due to reasons related to their education or socio-economic situation. Access to contraception is an integral part of this. However, it is a matter of allowing every woman to freely dispose of her body, i.e. to plan her pregnancy, to decide whether and when she wants a child. Since 2004, an INAMI intervention has been planned to provide free contraceptive pills for girls and girls under 21 years of age, provided that the doctor prescribes the cheapest contraceptive. For the others, a specific intervention is also planned, but they still have a personal share to pay. In 2013, this intervention was extended to other contraceptive methods, oral pills combining estrogen and progestogens, intravaginal rings, IUDs, pills the next day, with the exception of condoms. If this progress was necessary, the current law does not respond to reality. First, the cheapest contraceptive method is not necessarily the most effective or the most suitable for the needs and body of the woman who uses it. Second, the age of 21 is well below the average age of most abortions. At the time, this limit of 21 years was justified by the proportion of adolescents who did not have contraceptives and who used abortion. Today, statistics show that the average age of women using abortion is 27 years and fairly stable. That is why my party is in favour of this bill increasing this age to 25, while stressing that this should be a first step towards free contraception at the age of 27. It is also apparent that more than 40 per cent of women who use abortion did not use contraceptives in the month prior to pregnancy. This is due not only to a lack of information but also to a growing precariousness among women, so that financial and other barriers to access to effective contraception must be removed. The age limit for the reimbursement of the next day's pill is also not justified since the cost of an IVG drug is almost entirely covered by INAMI, regardless of the age of the patient. In addition, it is a method of contraception taken in an exceptional manner and which allows women facing unwanted pregnancy to interrupt it in an urgent manner, in accordance with their right to freely dispose of their bodies. Indeed, free contraception alone will not solve the problem of unwanted pregnancies. In addition to this, it is necessary to encourage the federated entities to continue their work of prevention and information, by implementing these activities with the general public, target audiences and also professionals, mainly with the generalists, as regards the various means of contraception. Research, development and information related to male contraceptives should also be promoted in order to ensure equality between women and men in the use of contraceptive methods. I hope that all the gentlemen here will agree. As the European Parliament stressed in its resolution of 6 June 2002, access to contraceptives must be pursued at different levels in a comprehensive manner. This requires States to provide comprehensive information on effective and responsible methods of birth control, to provide free contraceptives and sexual health services to disadvantaged groups, and to promote the use of emergency contraception at affordable and informal prices. To this end, this bill deserves our support, although we regret that the majority amendment leaves the government to decide on its coming into force. I doubt, indeed, that this current government in day-to-day affairs sees women's freedom to dispose of their bodies as a budgetary priority, especially after maintaining criminal sanctions against women who are aborted out of time. Of course, the expansion of the reimbursement of contraceptives and the next day's pill has a cost. However, it must be borne in mind that this cost is derisory in relation to the societal cost of unwanted pregnancies and abortions that could have been avoided had it been taken upstream to remove financial and educational barriers to access to contraception.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many Members of Parliament agree that contraception is an essential condition for women's sexual freedom. In fact, the committee accepted a draft extending the reimbursement of certain contraceptives up to the age of 25 years and the emergency pill regardless of age. One thing makes me happier than the other. I would like to point out that an effective contraceptive will make the emergency pill little necessary. There is something to be said about this: Mrs Capoen has already taken note of this. To Mrs Lalieux I can answer that I can only issue the royal decree if the procedure is followed, which means that the budget must be available. On my question, RIZIV calculated the budgetary impact immediately when the proposal was submitted. At the moment, we do not have the necessary budget. The healthcare budget follows a different circuit. The post will therefore have to be entered in the pharmaceutical budget of the RIZIV before the Royal Decree can be issued for entry into force. Such a royal decision, which is outside the budgetary framework approved by the General Council, also requires a discussion in the Insurance Committee, and this will be done. Only when that is done can the royal decree be published. In the meantime, we have also taken measures to make it easier for patients to obtain intrauterine implants while they are in hospital. It is important that the hospital pharmacists can deliver these implants, so that the patient does not have to go home first and then come back to the hospital for consultation. The number of consultations in this context would also be limited by this measure. That decision will be published. The Belgian contraception policy is followed by Sensoa. Last month, the organisation congratulated us on our strong general and structural reimbursement measures and on the special arrangements for very young people and vulnerable groups. The proposed measures are therefore a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u156	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u157	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3439/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3439/5) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u158	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u159	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Dirk Janssens, Damien Thiéry, Nathalie Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u160	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u161	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u162	Mr President, today we are voting on a measure to tackle the shortage of medicines, a question that has been going on for a long time. I have just spoken about the language requirements in the law on the exercise of health professions and, if you look closely, we are actually in the same scenario here. In 2015 I checked it out for the first time I asked for figures after a case on this subject. There are more, for drug shortages are a huge problem, which affects both patients and pharmacists and has a huge amount of extra work to do. I have also asked questions about this from the beginning of the legislature and raised the problem, and you have sent me there with a bunch of things. You said that you were working on it and that you would solve it and that there would be a working group. A working group was supposedly working on proposals from 2014. After all these years, one proposal comes out of the bus, which means the export ban. We did not, of course, wait for that proposal, but we ourselves developed a well thought-out approach, a comprehensive approach, which really requires the problem. In this light, the proposal before us is totally inadequate. It is incomprehensible that this is the only thing you come up with. The number of drug shortages is increasing and registration is incomplete and insufficient. We have had hearings with the whole sector, the various stakeholders and scientists working on the issue. From this point of view, together with everyone else, we have written ourselves a bill that guarantees a comprehensive approach and that commitment in various areas, in particular: prevention, tackling and evaluating. We want to avoid the problem by guaranteeing security of supply. Especially for vital medicines, this must be possible or even imposed in order to protect the population. In addition, there is a notification today, but it is as leaky as a sieve. The causes are also 'other', so today we do not know exactly how many drug shortages there are, let alone why. Of course, the fact that the reason should be better recorded has everything to do with the fact that it is only then that we can act. If a drug shortage is caused by a case of force majeure, such as a factory fire, then there is no need to act. If it really is about will, for example foreclosure, or because a player thinks he can make more profits on the patients' hood, then action must be taken. We call for fines to be imposed in such cases. In the Netherlands, too, this was decided after the Thyrax case in which hundreds of thousands of Dutch people were disturbed because they could no longer get their thyroid medication. Fines and all additional costs should be charged to those responsible. Our bill provides for this. We are assuming the principle that our people and our patients must be protected. Not us, our social security or our patients have to pay for the additional costs that are the fault of a third party. Our proposal also includes a better registration. This registration should also be included in the list of pharmacists and the official software. In this way, our pharmacists will be better aware of the deficits so that they can respond more quickly. In addition to a fine approach, our pharmacists should also be supported so that they can offer easier alternatives. This frustration is shared today by pharmacists and patients. In addition, there should be an export ban for players who continue to pose problems. That proposal for a unilateral export ban is before us today. We provided this as a stick behind the door for players who pose permanent problems. We believe that this is a proportionate measure. Finally, there is also the evaluation. You are proposing a unilateral measure imposed on wholesalers. All other players are spared. All other causes are not addressed. Only the wholesalers-distributors and.. additional problems.. all wholesalers-distributors. This reminds me of your measure to read the eID at home care. For a few rotten apples, an entire sector is hit. This is a sad business for players who are doing well today. You are going for unilateral measures to put out fires, while we had a global approach on the table, supported by the whole sector. We also note that no other Member State has adopted such a total ban imposed on the entire wholesale distribution sector. We really wonder whether the ban will pass the test of the European Court of Justice. When we look at the European Commission's explanatory memorandum on the ban on medicinal products, we have serious doubts about this. What does she write? Een exportverbod kan "as long as such restrictions are justifiable as appropriate, necessary and proportionate". That provision has already been completely ignored. It also specifies that it should be limited to "pharmaceuticals for which a shortage is likely or certain." We had included in our legislative proposal that only the rotten apples would be dealt with effectively and that an entire sector would not be endorsed because of a problem for which that sector may not be responsible. We therefore expect this to be challenged legally. We will abstain from the proposal. It is to the credit that at least a proposal has come out of the bus, which is better than nothing. However, we fear that, after the legal challenge of the measure and bearing in mind the Commission's explanatory memorandum, the proposal will not last long. As a result, our patients and our pharmacists will remain in the cold again because of you, which is particularly unfortunate. We'd have liked it to be different.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u163	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have supported this bill in committee and will continue to support it today but with little enthusiasm. However, we are not mistaken that the measure envisaged in terms of restrictions on the export of medicines for public health reasons is insufficient. It alone is not a comprehensive response to the problem of the current shortage of medicines. On March 7, the press still reported 428 medicines in need: aspirin, painkillers, antibiotics, antihypertensive drugs, etc. A real record of shortages that puts the health of patients at risk. Because if there are sometimes treatment alternatives, this is not the case for all medicines. The lack of information and transparency on the causes and timing of re-supply is also of great concern. With regard to exports, it must be recognized that they are far from being the main cause of these shortages. It will therefore be necessary to provide for balanced implementing orders to that effect. It is well known that the vast majority of drug shortages are due to problems related to the production or supply of raw materials, and are therefore directly the responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry. For our group, further responses could have been provided by the minister to effectively address these shortages. But for this, and as we keep repeating, we should have wanted to work for patients by addressing the main causes of shortages, those that are the responsibility of the pharmaceutical industry and not walk hand in hand with the pharmaceutical industry to protect its interests, as this government has done. For our group, further progress will have to be made in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u164	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our concern is the patient, the patient's interest. And it is again the patient that I want to highlight today as in virtually all the interventions that have been made in relation to the bills that have been made in recent times. The patient's interest is paramount in the unavailability of medicines. It is precisely to address a problem that the patient is confronted with when he or she is with his or her pharmacist that we are here. In fact, we must realize that if this unavailability affects the pharmacist of course, it affects the patient first and foremost. A few retroacts. Initially, we were dealing with a bill that was then transformed into a bill introduced by my colleagues Dirk Janssens, Nathalie Muylle and myself. I would add that this project, which has been transformed into a proposal, is also the result of work carried out for two years. He was not sufficiently recalled during the discussions. The sector was represented, for once, in full: Pharma.be, Febelgen, BACHI, APB, OPHACO, the Belgian Association of Hospital Pharmacists, the National Association of Wholesalers-Partitioners of Pharmaceutical Specialties and insurers. I guess everyone knows. There are two main causes for the unavailability of medicines: unavailability in the strict sense or quotas. Mrs Van Camp touched a word about the unavailability in the strict sense. This is, for example, a lack of production, the unavailability through an undertaking which no longer manages to supply, by default of production or for the sake of manufacture or even for concern as to the nature of the product delivered. As you all know, these products are subject to extremely important control. In addition to these strict unavailabilitys, mention should be made of quotas. This concerns a predefined stock by the producer of the medicinal products concerned. Deliveries are limited in order to ensure that the medicines produced here do not leave our territory for the benefit of other European countries. However, as the industry has pointed out on several occasions, we have found that quotas are disrupting the traditional supply chain of pharmacies and the continuity of care. The text under review is working on part of the availability solution – about 50% – but not just on quota. I agree with Mr Senesael: of course, this is a first step, but it will not be enough. We are therefore interested in the distribution wholesaler. I would point out – because we are not doing it enough, alas – that the latter must, first and foremost, comply with a public service obligation, including with regard to the provision of the medicine in pharmacy for the benefit of patients. It is specified that the distribution wholesaler can only supply the products to confreres, pharmacists or a hospital. Indeed, exports through a distribution wholesaler will now be impossible. On the other hand, this does not mean that exports themselves will become impossible. They may always be carried out through wholesalers licensed for this purpose. I had the opportunity to talk to some wholesalers who found that the measure penalized them. But, sincerely, if it is indeed taken in the interest of the patient, wholesalers who have received the export licence will of course be able to continue exporting. Where applicable, for some exceptions, alternatives are provided that are known to stakeholders. Minister, I won't be much longer. The purpose of the bill is to define strictly the role of the distribution wholesaler. It retains its right to be supplied by manufacturers of medicines and other wholesale distributors. In order to prevent medicines intended for the Belgian market from being sold elsewhere, it is intended that it can only deliver to pharmaceutical companies, hospital clinics and other wholesalers. As I said in the beginning of this procedure, priority is therefore reserved for Belgian patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u165	Mr President, let me make it clear that our group supports the principle of this bill, which we believe provides a solution to the unavailability of medicines, which, unfortunately, patients in Belgium are frequently confronted with. This unavailability may be due to force majeure, such as a production problem on the part of the manufacturer, but also to quotas. The manufacturer supplies wholesalers only the quantities that are strictly necessary for Belgian patients, for fear that the medicines intended for our country will be exported to other countries where the selling price is higher. The purpose of this proposal is to define strictly the role of the wholesaler-distributor. Although he remains subject to the obligation to be supplied by pharmaceutical producers and other wholesalers, in order to prevent the marketing of medicinal products for the Belgian market from being sold elsewhere, this proposal aims at allowing wholesalers to supply only to pharmacies, hospital pharmacists and other wholesalers. The Belgian patient is therefore given priority. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, we know that this bill is not perfect and that more needs to be done. For us, however, this bill is a first step towards reducing deficits. If this is to eliminate the outflow and shortages caused by intermediaries, then we must also work on the resposabilisation of producers. Health before profit, I've seen someone name it on social media. That's right. We will, perhaps with a fresh reluctance, support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the essence has already been mentioned by other colleagues. We support the bill that is on the table here for the following reasons. The main reason for this proposal today is that it gives us greater transparency. Is it ideal? Probably not. Will it solve the whole problem? Probably not. We also believe, like other colleagues, that all actors in this story should be responsive. I hope that this measure will be included in a larger plan, which will further address the inefficiencies. We too have doubts about the European review, but the communication of the European Commission was not unambiguous. It is likely that the sector will announce that after the vote it will follow a procedure which will show what the outcome will be. In any case, it seems to us to be a good idea to have transparency. There was a lot of information in the press that didn't add up. It is said that exports are not the cause. You also know that when medicines are unavailable, they are not on the list for 14 days. So everything that is not available in the short term is not yet in the figures. It is good that we can measure and know this. So we don't know the real reason today. It is not ideal, but for us this is an important first step which we certainly want to support. Madam Secretary, we are concerned, and many companies with us, about clinical research. An addition has already been made, but some vigilance may be built in. I hope you will continue to listen to the specific concerns and needs of the companies active in clinical research. There is a great deal of reference to the pharmaceutical industry, but important here is also the support of the pharmacists themselves. They also support this first important step.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u167	Mr President, I can keep it even shorter than Mrs Muylle, because most of it has already been said. I agree with the positive elements. Unavailability has been a problem for ten years and is constantly increasing. With this bill, we can largely offer a solution. It is irresponsible that the patient's health should be compromised for profit. This clearly involves a shared responsibility of producers and distribution. Since they are unable to assume that responsibility together, the public authorities must intervene in the interests of health. That is clearly not an infringement of the free movement of goods, as some retailers claim in the media. We will support this bill. We are pleased that the domes of pharmacists consider this bill to be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the title on which the question is a positive one is aimed at preventing the unavailability of medicines. And it must be noted that many patients are regularly confronted with drug deficiencies when it is a chronic treatment. I am therefore in favour of the title. However, when we look into this bill a little bit, we have to ask ourselves questions that pose a real problem to me, minister. The first question relates to the fact that the text under consideration was not submitted to the Council of State. I also have questions about European law. I really believe that the Council of State could have validated, made changes aimed at strengthening this text or criticising it. The failure to submit this text to him is therefore a problem, because I am not sure that it complies with European law. That is the first aspect of the method, but also of legal certainty! I would now like to turn to a second aspect. Of course, there is a need to be very clear about patients affected by parallel shortages and exports. These exports cannot and must never lead to shortages of medicines in Belgium and no patient should be affected by them. When we look at the missing drug lists of the Medicines Agency and the PDB, we are quite surprised to see that, at the end of 2018, almost half of the missing drugs were generic drugs. These medicines are generally not exported as they are available at much lower prices than in many European countries. In addition, about 100 of the missing products were hospital products only available in hospitals. They are therefore not exported either. For a few hundred medicines that are very rarely prescribed, this is also a problem of packaging. On the basis of these various elements, Madam Minister, I fear that the mechanism you are putting in place will bring little or no solution to the problem of unavailability. What about compliance with European law? Very clearly, I think the Council of State should have been consulted? What about effectiveness in relation to the goal pursued? In addition, other measures should have been taken on the issue of unavailability. I also have questions about the impact not of the big industrialists but, more particularly, of small wholesale exporters. When we look at the range of medicines that were unavailability, it must be noted that the majority of them are not exported. So there are problems at the source. Madam Minister, you've got your shoulders shrunk. I'll give you an appointment in a year or even in six months. I think it will then have to be noted that nothing has been resolved with regard to the unavailability of medicines. Therefore, I will not support this text. I think we're missing the essentials. The situation is really problematic for the patients concerned. This happens almost every week. Madam Minister, while working groups had been set up and had made a whole series of ambitious proposals in this area, you did not follow them. We remain here with a proposal that, beyond the title, risks being legally fragile and not effective on the ground. I am afraid, therefore, that progress for patients will unfortunately be null and void. We will not support this text. We are looking forward to examining, in a second phase, the effective measures to be taken and also the risks associated with legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u169	As my colleague Dedry said, we will support the text. We believe that it is a first step in the right direction. The problem is acute, urgent, and we believe that much more comprehensive measures will have to be put in place afterwards. We have consistently argued for a mandatory licensing mechanism. It is also necessary to look at the practices of large firms that either organize the shortage by playing on competition between different states, or work on tight flows by having relocated to other countries to maximize their profits. We find ourselves in a situation where stock ruptures occur. As soon as there is a small problem in the supply chain, a drug is no longer available. The medicine is not like any other product. Patients depend on it, whether it's their life, their health or their comfort. There is an urgent need to put something in place at different levels of the chain, and not just at this one, but we will already support this first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u170	Mr President, Mrs Fonck is gone, but I will honour her rendezvous, because I know that this is a good measure. Mrs. Van Camp is gone, too. I do not think she was present in committee, otherwise she would know that this is not a full export ban for medicines. Export will still be possible, as Mr Thiéry said. These products can still be exported, only not by the wholesaler distributor, because their role is to deliver the medicines to the pharmacies, so that the patient does not experience any interruption of his therapy. Again, expert remains possible. This measure was indeed the result of the working group, which worked within the FAGG for two years. The Working Group has also proposed other issues for which no legal provisions were required, such as the website that is unique and where everything can be consulted, as a patient as well as a pharmacist, to find out which stock interruptions were announced and for what reason. These medicines that fall within the quota could not be found on the website because it was not a permanent unavailability, but for example a week, a week and a half or a few days. This was indeed reported to us. Mrs Fonck refers to the generic medicines, but these that were involved are not found on the website of the FAGG either. Therefore, the FAGG did not have any insight into the inability of the quota system and exports. That is exactly what we want to change through this bill, in such a way that a short-term but difficult unavailability is visible to both patients and pharmacists and must be reported. This should be interpreted more strictly and the FAGG should have a full view of the problem. We know in the field that unavailability, even short-term unavailability, is a real problem. In this respect, the pharmacist associations have developed a tool to enable pharmacists to order a quotad product directly from the firm. In a seven-day period, 281 products were ordered with this tool, with in the top five Clexane, a blood thinner; Combivent Monodose, against respiratory problems; Pulimicort, against allergies and respiratory problems; Depo-Provera, a hormonal preparation and Innohep. That is proof that it is an important factor and that it causes serious problems for the patient. The measure has been reviewed and is not contrary to the free movement of goods within the European Union. We have asked for an opinion from the European Commission, an informal opinion. Our proposal is entirely in line with the reports quoted by the European Commission. That's important. There will therefore be an increase in the obligation to supply and notify the pharmaceutical industry, because today they will have to report a stock breach of at least 14 days, but if it is shorter, they will not have to report it. The new rules will require them to report on this as soon as they are unable to comply with the delivery obligation for three working days. We are therefore taking a major step forward with regard to the inaccessibility of patients. Mr. President, I have an appointment with Mrs. Fonck in six months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u171	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u172	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3599/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3599/5) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip277x.u173	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Colleagues, as usual at long meetings, we need to reset the technical installation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 March 2019 at 7.45 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 28, 2019 at 7:45 p.m.
