ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u1	Colleagues, first of all, I wish you a happy 2019. I hope that you have started the year in a healthy way and that this will also be the case for the rest of the year. That you can achieve everything you want to achieve on a personal and professional level. Today, for the first time, we welcome Mr De Crem as Minister for the Interior in the Government of Current Affairs. There are a number of questions on the agenda that were put before the government's resignation. In the meantime, new questions have also been tabled. The Conference of Presidents only decided yesterday afternoon to raise oral questions again. The new questions will be dealt with in a forthcoming meeting. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees; Mr Van Hees;
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u2	Mr President, allow me to welcome the arrival of the new Minister of the Interior, Mr. De Crem, which I would like to congratulate. I would like to take this opportunity to wish all the members of the committee and all those who work there a wonderful year. I had put this question to Mr Jambon. That's obviously Mr. From Crem who will give an answer. According to the press, the authorities want to follow migrants with the signal of their gsm. The project requires a review of migrant flows by tracking the signal of their gsm. But in doing so, every citizen in the area will also be traced. It therefore raises questions. This is an idea of the Vias Institute, especially known for its road safety activities. In recent years, however, Vias has also been active in the field of social security. In an article in De Standaard on 24 November, the organisation explained that what is known as wifi browsers will be able to discover the unique code of a gsm, for example at the Brussels-Nord station. If this code then reappears on motorway or Calais car parks, the identity data can then be requested from the operator. In the newspaper De Morgen on 24 November, the spokesman for your predecessor Jan Jambon announced that this project was of interest and that it would be examined further by the courts. Minister, could you give us more details about this project, the legal vehicle that would be used to implement it, the progress of the work and the timing of its implementation? The professor of criminal law and privacy Gert Vermeulen (UGent) stated that this type of technique is suitable for monitoring large groups of people, such as for example to determine the density of the public on a shopping street, which has already been done in Antwerp or Amsterdam in the Netherlands, but not when it comes to individual users. Do you confirm this information from this teacher? What is your opinion on the matter? With regard to concerns about personal data, what answers can you give to these conclusions: "Even if the browser does not detect gsm numbers, but only generic codes, there is still and always a question of unique personal data, by which an identity can be associated with a group."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u3	Mr President, I also wish all our colleagues a happy New Year. Dear colleague Kir, in your question, you referred to an article published in De Morgen and De Standaard on 24 November 2018 on the use of wifi sniffers. It is a system developed by the Vias security institute that could be useful for effective detection of human traffickers by signaling their mobile phones. I also read that my predecessor's cabinet had responded positively to that possibility and had announced that it wished to discuss the issue in consultation with all stakeholders. I take note of this, as well as the fact that privacy experts have expressed great reservations about such a system. I can only conclude by saying that my administration communicates that no concrete action has been taken in this project. In addition, with respect to your last two privacy questions, I must refer you to Minister De Backer. In any case, I intend to follow this subject very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. I see you're particularly careful. You advise me to speak to the minister responsible for privacy, which I will certainly do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u5	I left some cookies here, and I want to say something about that. They're cookies from West Flanders from the Jules Destrooper factory. Many of them know them as baked butterflies. In West Flanders, we call that "luck." This is a cookie that is especially offered with a drink to wish each other a happy New Year. You may taste it, including the staff present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u6	Mr President, you forget to mention the Vandermarliere family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u7	Mr President, Minister, of course we have all been particularly aware of the steps for the Climate Plan. This is an extremely important subject. Moreover, it is well known that public authorities have an exemplary role in this regard. However, one in six federal police service vehicles is too polluting to travel to Brussels and Antwerp. These two cities impose low-emission zones, preventing polluting means of transport from entering their territory, as reported by the press on 8 October. However, the super-polluting cars and vans of the federal police are listed on a "white list", which exempts them from the fine of 150 euros in Antwerp and 350 euros in Brussels. According to the Federal Police, 550 overly polluting vehicles can be used in Brussels, and 250 in Antwerp. However, the police say they are determined to buy, in the future, cleaner, gasoline-powered vehicles – I don't know if at the time I'm talking to you, this fuel is still advocated because, after the debate we have had on diesel, some claim, today, that there would be no real difference between these two fuels – or even hybrids. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to ensure that, in the future, the car cart of the federal police is less polluting? What options will you prefer to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the low-emission zone is concerned, the data transmitted to Brussels Taxation do mention 550 exempt vehicles, in accordance with the regulations of the low-emission zones. In the low-emission area of Antwerp, there are 250 vehicles complying with the legal exemptions which are inscribed on the so-called "white list" of Antwerp. I am told that these vehicles are indispensable and legally exempted from the application of the rules of the low-emission zones but are, in fact, driving very little. Planning for the replacement of vehicles is currently under way. But I see that, as I speak to you, no specific budget has been allocated for the purchase of cleaner vehicles. It is for this reason that I continue to ask the federal police to consider options within the current budget while being aware of the need to work with the provisional twelfths. This is in line with the Commissioner General's willingness to invest in the innovation that Green Policy should be part of.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u9	Minister, I must admit that I am still hungry. I am very surprised that your predecessor – and the government in general – did not plan to replace the most polluting vehicles in his car cart replacement plan. This is quite surprising because it is still a matter of public authorities. At a time when people, businesses and everyone else are being asked to make pollution efforts, it is shocking to see that no initiative has been taken by the federal police to anticipate the movement. Minister, I invite you to work with your administration to develop a car cart plan for the federal police that provides for the regular replacement of these polluting cars. In addition, I am still hungry about the choice that will ultimately be made. I am also interested in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u10	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my best wishes. This question was actually addressed to your predecessor. I wanted to ask Minister Jambon again about this, after previous answers from him in plenary, on the basis of new elements. It's about this. A man who filmed an arrest of refugees in the station of Landen in early October was offended and pretty badly beaten by some police officers. The medical report of the victim and the footage that emerged from the incident tell a different story than what Minister Jambon brought to plenary on 4 November. He replied there that there was drunkenness or intoxication in the game, that the person was under influence. The medical report says it's about 0.2 promille. It is clear from the images distributed through social media that the person concerned did not immediately start screaming and did not try to avoid the agent, contrary to the arguments for the brutality of the police which Mr Jambon used in his reply. From the footage on Facebook, I hope you have also looked at it, Mr Minister, so I referred to it in my written record, we learn that the police inspector answers the question of the person concerned as to why he is being arrested as follows. Ik quote, "Because you're Wallon." That shocked me very much. You will undoubtedly be able to confirm that that is no reason to rob a person of his or her freedom. There is a complaint to the P Committee, which takes the facts seriously and forwards them to the court. A complaint was also filed with the King's Attorney. I would point out that the vast majority of agents work very hard every day for the safety of our people. It is a great pity that such incidents put the police in a bad light. That is why it is important to act quickly and vigorously in such cases and not to minimize the facts. Do you still support the statements made by your predecessor on 4 November that the man would have been under the influence and rebelled, or do you acknowledge that the answer was not correct and/or incomplete at that time, certainly after seeing the images? What is your response to the police inspector's question to the person concerned that he is handcuffed and arrested "parce que tu es Wallon," which is evident from the footage? I take it you find that unacceptable? Do you think that these new insights shed new light on the matter and ask for a different response? If so, what will you do with this? What is the progress of Committee P's investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u11	Mr Van Hecke, I think you know the answer that I will have to give, because it concerns a number of facts that have been reported in court, particularly with the King's Attorney and the Parliament's Committee P, asking for the matter to be examined. Both investigations are ongoing. You must understand that I really cannot answer your relevant questions. If opinions could be expressed at the end of these investigations, particularly those of the P Committee, I will not fail to do so, but I am unfortunately unable to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u12	I remember when you used to say, "I am the voice." That was a long time ago, from the time of BHV.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u13	Always with a good result.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u14	Now I don't hear much. You are not responsible for the actions of your predecessor, but he has given immediate answers and said things that turned out to be false.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u15	I don't want to end up in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u16	You're more careful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u17	Sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u18	Sometimes. Mr. Secretary, have you seen the video? You're nodding. In addition to the judicial investigation or the investigation of the P Committee, as a police inspector to the question of why someone is being arrested, answers "parce que tu es Wallon," what do you say as Minister of the Interior? Do you think a police inspector can give such an answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u19	Just that question that was recorded on image and sound is part of the research. I'm gonna wait and see if I can't make a preliminaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u20	All right, well, we'll definitely come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u21	If this still falls within our given time. Or do you assume that you'll still be here after the election?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u22	Mr President, I assume that someone from Green or Ecolo will still be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u23	Then you'll be able to pass on the relay stick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u24	Mr President, and also someone from Merelbeke. Then it's "parce que tu es Merelbeckois."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u25	Minister, my attention has been drawn to two recent articles in the French newspaper Le Monde about the well-being of police officers at work, particularly regarding the prevention of stress and the treatment of post-traumatic stress. Following the Paris attacks of 13 November 2015, two studies conducted by Santé publique France (SPF) and Université Paris-XIII reveal for the first time the extent of the psychological impacts and "post-traumatic health problems" caused by these events. The objective of these investigations, published on Tuesday 13 November, is: "Preventing and treating the negative consequences of such events" and "helping institutions to intervene after an attack to improve the care and preparation of their staff". I will pay particular attention to this second study on police officers, especially since the other article in the newspaper Le Monde, which drew my attention, reported that 61 French police officers and gendarmes had ended their lives since January. According to Catherine Pinson, head of the operational psychological support department of the National Police, the very nature of the police profession inherently entails significant psychological risks. She explains that police officers "are confronted with violent professional situations; they are sometimes assaulted, they have to use their weapons..." This can also "cause a phenomenon of professional wear and tear. They work in contact with people who are suffering, in a situation of deprivation, in the face of emotionally complicated things to deal with." In the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016, my colleagues wanted to "emphasize the professionalism of the rescue (...) which were led to intervene in an unsecured environment and confronted with war wounds never seen during an attack in Belgium and shocking, even for the most experienced" so that one of our recommendations was "to ensure that all the disciplines involved in such events benefit from psychological support organised by their specific organisation or, failing that, by a central point of contact". Unfortunately, stress and post-traumatic stress are not limited to such extraordinary events, but also occur throughout the police career for the reasons highlighted by the French police officer in her interview in Le Monde. Following a response from your predecessor last May, I would like to remind you that over the last five years, the StressTeam monitoring and support teams of local and federal police have intervened on 1,982 occasions. In 2016, the attacks in Brussels had a significant impact on the psychological debriefings resulting from this tragic event. Last year there were 153 psychological debriefings. The aim of these interviews is to avoid long-term psychological problems. These interviews must also take place within three days of the shocking event. Mr Minister, has an analysis been made in Belgium of the extent of the psychological impacts and post-traumatic health problems caused to police officers, whether as a result of the tragic terrorist events we have experienced or for all the other ordinary experiences? Has such an analysis been carried out, inter alia, as part of a possible evaluation of the psycho-social risk prevention plan of the federal police? What has been the follow-up to the recommendation of our committee of inquiry to ensure that all the disciplines involved in such events are provided with psychological support organised by their specific organisation or, failing that, by a central point of contact, in particular in the context of a possible new plan for the prevention of the psycho-social risks of the federal police? What about the additional resources granted to StressTeam? Committee P states in its 2017 Annual Report that the DGR/StressTeam Service and the CGWB (Federal Police's Internal Directorate of Prevention and Protection at Work) would be chronically understaffed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, thank you. With regard to the extent of psychological impacts and post-traumatic stress syndromes among police officers following attacks and critical events in the exercise of their duties, no specific analysis has been carried out to date. Nevertheless, the psychological support of front-line workers was the subject of a sub-working group of the inter-federal task force in the context of the attacks. It stressed the obligation of employers to provide psychological support during events such as attacks, but also in the daily practice of these professions. In addition, and in this spirit, the Integrated Police Coordination Committee composed of the Executive Committee, the Commissioner General and the three Directors General, as well as the Standing Commission of the Local Police, approved, on 18 December 2018, a note drawn up by the StressTeam within the Federal Police on the support that the latter can provide to the local police areas, as well as possible collaborations. The purpose of this note is to formalise what was done during the attacks of 22 March 2016 and during major planned events, such as demonstrations at risk. The GPI 79, i.e. the Ministerial Circular on Integrated Police of 21 February 2014 on the support of the StressTeam to local police areas, is and remains relevant. It will be composed from the beginning of 2019 of a section head psychologist, two administrative assistants (one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking), seven social assistants (three Dutch-speaking and four French-speaking) and ten psychologists (five Dutch-speaking and five French-speaking), including one seconded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) reaffirmed its request to the Belgian Government on 27 November last to ensure the continuity of its activities and its mission of protecting the population. The problem is well known: AFCN will lose much of its funding from the nuclear power plant operator in 2025. However, the Agency will have to supervise the decommissioning of the plants for several decades. At the same time, it will have to ensure the continuity of its many other responsibilities, in the fields of transport, security, nuclear safety, radioactive waste and industrial establishments, territorial surveillance and medicine. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? How do you respond to the Agency's appeal that was repeated on November 27, 2018? What are the leads on the government table to ensure the future funding of the CFFA?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u29	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Thiébaut, the AFCN Steering Committee has already begun to reflect on the Agency's long-term funding for some time. The purpose of this strategic exercise is to identify the Agency's key tasks, i.e. missions relevant to a security authority and how to finance them while taking into account external factors of influence, such as operator decisions or political decisions. You will probably understand that it is not possible for me, in day-to-day business, to pronounce me this January 9, 2019 for funding in 2025. Nevertheless, I hope to come back to this issue in the following weeks. In any case, the outcome of this reflection will be presented in a strategic note that will follow its path during discussions on the formation of a new government. But I am confident that your interventions and comments will be very helpful in writing this vision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u30	Minister, I thank you even though I have the impression that, in your responses in the coming weeks and months, you will often resort to the fact that you are in the business of day-to-day business. That's pretty normal. But to govern is to foresee. Even if it is true that 2025 is far away, as the Agency expresses its concern, you still have to mention it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u31	We will have an opportunity to discuss this together in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u32	Minister, a nuclear emergency planning exercise at Fleurus IRE was long planned. It was triggered on 20 November at 0500, in accordance with the established scenario. However, it was interrupted during the day, following the decision of the governor of Hainaut to activate a real provincial phase. Despite the limited playing time, this exercise was evaluated. What do you get from it? This would be of great interest to residents. Are there any other life-size exercises planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u33	Mr. Thiébaut, the exercise tested the alert and mobilization of cells and committees outside of office hours as well as the deployment of operational disciplines on and around the site of the National Institute of Radioelements. In this way, stakeholders were able to take ownership of the new reporting levels, the forms and the corresponding information flows. Given the rather recent nature of this exercise and the fact that the final evaluation - with the setback required for a weighted analysis - is still under way, I am not yet in a position to provide a comprehensive account of it. The new emergency plan of March 2018 provides for an annual exercise for the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants and for a two-yearly exercise for the other nuclear and radiological sites in Belgium. The scope of each of them is generally discussed at the time of preparation of their timetable and is further specified, in consultation with all stakeholders, at the beginning of the preparation process for each of these tests. As for their exact determination and timing, they will be determined with all the partners involved in the nuclear emergency plan at a meeting to be held at the end of this month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u34	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u35	Mr President, Minister, the French commission of inquiry into the safety and security of nuclear installations has advocated a series of measures for our installations. It recommends the following measures: to speed up the implementation of population evacuation plans in place of the current plans; to develop communication on nuclear risks; to implement full-scale evacuation exercises; and to plan specific response plans for the main risk sites. The Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety, to which I referred in my first question, took part on 27 November last in an interesting exchange of views with the AFCN on the advisability of applying in Belgium what the French commission of inquiry recommends. However, for the recommendations I have cited, AFCN declares itself not competent and refers to the Crisis Centre. Minister, could you give an update on the progress of these various projects in Belgium? What about the opportunity to apply these French recommendations at home?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u36	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, my speech will give answers to your very specific questions. It will be a little longer than the previous answers I have just given. A new unit, the International Crisis Management Cell (ICC), was created within the National Crisis Centre on 28 June 2018 by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The ICC is a multidisciplinary unit that, by working on the basis of existing processes at the Crisis Centre, will ensure the synchronization of national contingency plans with the procedures of the European Union and/or NATO in the context of national crisis management and resilience. Its task is thus to ensure the implementation and monitoring of civilian measures, in support of national resilience, on the basis of the seven basic requirements defined by NATO at the 2016 Warsaw Summit. Within this framework, this cell, currently at the embryonic stage, is working to solve the problem of population movements. With regard to information on nuclear risks, the nuclear risk website.be is the reference site for citizens and professionals. National information campaigns are also carried out on a regular basis in Belgium. The last one took place throughout 2018. Based on dialogue, the campaign has been divided into different information actions, but also at times of interaction with citizens, so that everyone better understands the risk as it exists in Belgium and knows what to do in the event of a nuclear accident or incident. As part of the campaign, collaborations were carried out with various media: radio, print and online. Through social media and networks, the Crisis Centre has carried out targeted awareness-raising activities. Live dialogue between experts and citizens was organised. A video capsule to raise awareness of risks and the right reflexes to adopt in the event of an accident was also broadcast on social media. As part of the predistribution of iodine tablets, the information brochures were made available by all pharmacies in the country as of 6 March 2018, as well as to cities and municipalities in a nuclear emergency planning area. This approach continued with information sessions, organized by the Crisis Centre in collaboration with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and the Federal Public Health Service, for health professionals such as general practitioners, gynaecologists and pharmacists. At the request of communal authorities, information sessions were also organized for the population so that coherent and comprehensive information could be reinforced through educational discussions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the nuclear emergency planning exercises is to test the effectiveness of the response structure in relation to emergency situations. The practical arrangements for a comprehensive exercise are defined by the Crisis Centre in consultation with all public and private actors involved in the nuclear emergency plan according to a specific methodology. The objectives are set in consultation with and by a set of partners and must take into account a range of constraints and the capabilities available to test them. Public participation remains a very important focus in the organization of nuclear exercises. All partners are thinking with the Crisis Centre about how best to involve it even more in future exercises. Finally, the Crisis Centre is currently coordinating with all the public and private actors involved in the nuclear emergency plan an extensive process of operationalization of the plan. The contingency plan is a framework plan that must be set out in operational procedures in order to operate optimally in case it should be triggered. In close cooperation with governors and local authorities, the updating of specific contingency and response plans in the emergency planning areas of the main sites is obviously an integral part of this broad operationalization work which is currently being carried out and which will be carried out in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u37	Minister, your answer is more complete than I have been able to receive so far, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u38	Minister, in another area, I recently discussed with your predecessor the issue of paying the twelfth month's salary to police officers from the former gendarmerie. This is a question that I almost know since I am also president of a police zone. Until recently, police officers from the former gendarmerie received their twelfth month's salary in early January rather than in December. It is a fairly well-known budgetary technique which allows, in one shot, to achieve an economy over a financial year. It would seem that, recently, this approach can no longer be implemented, which is certainly likely to improve the situation of the police officers targeted but which represents a significant burden for the police areas, whose budgets are now being finalized. Minister, what about it? Can you give us a picture of the current situation? Will there be a federal mechanism to assist police areas in dealing, if necessary, with this significant expenditure, which is beyond their control, as it is the result of a federal decision at the time? Will the areas be able to count on federal assistance in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the New Year's wishes I received from your area and to which I personally replied yesterday. Since 2017, the salary for December of paid federal police personnel, ex-gendarmes or members of the national gendarmerie or not, is paid on the last working day of December instead of the first working day of January of the following calendar year. For staff members paid in advance, nothing has been changed. They therefore continue to receive the December salary on the last working day of November. The December salary of locally paid term police personnel will be paid on the last working day of the year from 2020. In 2018 and 2019, the December salary will therefore be paid again on the first working day of January of the following calendar year, in 2019 and 2020 respectively. This transitional measure was specifically designed to allow police zones to gradually raise the necessary appropriations, as the change in the date of payment of the December processing required police zones to enter 13 months of processing in their police budgets. The situation was also discussed with the police areas, notably at the Police Services Negotiating Committee on 28 June 2017. As a result, there are no federal arrangements to assist police areas in meeting this budgetary burden. For pre-paid staff members, nothing changes. They therefore continue to receive the December salary on the last working day of November.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u40	Minister, thank you. Nevertheless, I would like to make you aware of the magnitude of this amount for certain areas. It is a pity that it is not possible at the moment to further spread this measure and to pay the amounts due in two or three fiscal years, in consultation with the unions. Perhaps you could play a role in helping areas in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u41	Mr Thiébaut, I will not hesitate to enquire about the situation in order to give it, if possible, a favourable follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a follow-up to a question I asked your predecessor on 16 May 2018. I then asked for a response to the findings in Amnesty International's report on ethnic profiling in the police. In this report, "You never know with people like you," half of the cops questioned admit that ethnic profiling happens. Your predecessor replied that there are statistics on the number of checks, but that this does not allow us to check whether there has been ethnic profile. The agents who spoke to Amnesty International said that there are no statistics. There are successful foreign examples of such a registration system. Your predecessor referred, among other things, to Spain and said he would inform his Spanish colleague to see how the system works and whether it could be a source of inspiration. I have a number of very specific questions. Firstly, what data are kept in the statistics that your predecessor mentioned by police control? Secondly, what is the outcome of the consultation with your Spanish colleague? Thirdly, what impact will you have on the results abroad and on the demand from the sector to introduce a registration system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u43	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the data stored in the framework of a police check stems from the logging functionality. This is the registration of the data statement and the processing of personal data. When a police officer checks a person, he consults the General National Data Bank (ANG). In order to determine whether the controlled person is listed in the ANG and whether measures prescribed by the authorities should be applied to that person, the police officer must insert the name, first name and date of birth of the person into the control application. It is these data that are stored in the logging database, in addition to the data relating to the place and time at which the check was carried out. This means that there are no data available in this context that allow us to know the ethnic origin of the person controlled by the police. As regards the answer to your second question, in particular the outcome of the consultation of my Spanish colleague, I propose that this be addressed to me in a written question so that I can give you a more detailed answer. The answer is quantitative and exhaustive, which is more appropriate in an answer to a written question. The use of ethnic profiling in detecting suspicious behaviors cannot be allowed. What needs to be done is: behaviour detection . Through this method one can detect different behavior by using objective indicators. The Behaviour Detection Officer (BDO) programme lasts three days, the first two of which are mandatory. The three-day training is required to obtain the certificate. This training was originally intended for the aviation police, but it is now being better used for local needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u44	Minister, I have heard your suggestion very well. My written question on the matter will arrive at your cabinet very soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1014x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament 28081 by Mrs De Crom is postponed.
