ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Depraetere's 55000280C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gijbels's 55000292C has been withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas's 55000441C is converted into a written question. Mrs Hanus is not present for her question No. 55000584C. I don't know if she's coming. We shall proceed first with the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u2	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the most important elements of the questions put were answered at the previous meeting of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. I will not repeat the whole speech here, but I will check my list to see if there are any elements that you have not gone into. I see here, among other things, the question of whether Belgium, following the example of Ireland, which has made a special budget to cover the main disadvantages of a no-dealbrexit, has also provided for such a special budget. Secondly, if the Brexit comes and there are not enough agreements to be concluded, for example on the mutual recognition of products, then the BFSA and customs will be confronted with the consequences. Are these services sufficiently prepared in terms of logistics and staff? For the post-brexit period, of course, it is still a bit of a glass ball, because we will first have to wait and see which specific agreements will be concluded at European level. Is Belgium, once more aware of this, possibly planning to conclude certain bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom, in addition to the European agreements that would exist? Finally, not insignificant, an element that has not yet been addressed here. Funds will be mobilised from the European Solidarity Fund and the European Globalisation Fund to help countries cope with the main consequences of the Brexit. However, the criteria have been drawn up in such a way that Belgian companies will virtually not be able to make use of them. For example, there must be a dismissal of at least 500 employees. You yourself quite rightly pointed out that 80% of our country's businesses are SMEs, which makes our position very special. My specific question is whether you would like to table a review of the criteria for using the existing funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u3	A whole series of comments have been made. I don't want to give double answers. I have already answered the questions on the bilateral agreements and on the funds. I would like to do that again because you have bothered to ask all the questions again. Thank you for that. It shows your interest in matter. On the bilateral agreements, I have already said that Europe's unity is very important. We naturally want these agreements to be concluded between the United Kingdom and Europe as a unity, not with the individual countries, because that would make us less strong. We know that Belgium is in a specific situation. We must take this situation into account. We also call on the Länder to take account of this specific situation, not only as regards customs duties, but also as regards the fact that we could have additional resources. That is, of course, an important point. We discussed the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. We have also talked about the fact that the rules currently in force are not beneficial to SMEs. We know that SMEs account for a large part of our economy. We naturally want to support them from the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. The idea is to ask for the conditions for access to the funds to be adjusted. The size of the company may be an element, but it could also be considered whether it is possible to have the funds at sectoral and/or regional level. We have not yet discussed the means to be released to organise the Brexit. You should know that we have been preparing since January of this year, but it was not clear at that time whether we would be dealing with a hard or a soft Brexit. Now that is not clear either, but we think that the chances of a hard Brexit are smaller than in January. We've been preparing for a hard Brexit. We have therefore asked all services what their needs would be in terms of staff and investment capacity. We have made a plan with answers to it. Around EUR 26 million will be released for its organisation. When one is prepared for a hard Brexit, one is also prepared for a soft Brexit. We are prepared to go as far as possible. We shall see what will be in the final agreements. Perhaps we will have to adapt to future realities. We'll follow it up close.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, thank you very much for the clarifications. Do I understand correctly that a budget of EUR 26 million is being made available from Belgium to help companies make the transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u5	I apologize if I was not clear that the budget is intended for the various services at federal level, such as customs and the BFSA. We have therefore provided additional resources to help these services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u6	You also say that Belgium will argue in favour of adjusting the criteria for using the European money from the Globalisation Fund and Solidarity Fund and taking more account of the size of the business or the sector. If I remember correctly, the criterion of dismissal of 500 workers may also be considered at sectoral level. Then what's the difference with what you're proposing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u7	The ability to cluster is already there. The idea is, of course, that as many companies as possible can meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u8	Thank you, that could certainly be a help for many of our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u9	Mrs Hanus has asked for her question No. 55000584C to be postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55001031C by Mrs Kitir has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, you have just indicated that negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (MFF) 2021-2027 are under way. That framework is very important, because it sets out how much the European Union will be able to spend on its programmes and policies. The MFF is being negotiated by both the European Parliament and the Council. The Belgian position to be defended in the Council should in principle be negotiated between the federal and regional levels. Unfortunately, we are picking up signs that this is not always going so well. The new Flemish Prime Minister, Jan Jambon, wrote to your predecessor a few times asking for the General Delegate of the Flemish Government to be included in the EU's negotiations by including him in the Belgian delegation to the European Council. In view of the importance of the multiannual financial framework, including for the regions, but also in view of the information that can flow from the regions to the Belgian level in order to draw up the best possible proposal for Belgium, we believe that the presence of the General Delegate of the Flemish Government is essential. If he is not there, Belgium is sitting at the negotiating table, so to speak, deaf and blind. There is also a precedent that shows that his presence is certainly not insignificant, because in the negotiations on the previous multiannual financial framework, due to the presence of the General Delegate of the Flemish Government, correct information could be provided to stakeholders, businesses and the general public. In this way serious internal Belgian political problems could also be avoided. That is why I have the following specific questions, Madam Prime Minister. Do you recognise the importance of the presence of the General Delegate of the Flemish Government and the extension of the other state governments in the Belgian delegation to the European Council? Can you confirm that a constructive dialogue is envisaged between the federal and regional levels to organise this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u11	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your question. We have already discussed this issue during our discussion on the European Summit. I have indeed stated that the regions and the regions are being consulted on several occasions. Since autumn 2017, the Länder have been and are closely involved at all available levels in the preparation of the frequent interventions of negotiators and the political level, through at least 27 ad hoc coordination meetings, 8 informal consultations and 7 informal closed meetings at Cabinet level. In addition, informal contact between the experts involved takes place almost daily. Belgian interventions have also explicitly included regional priorities such as agriculture, cohesion policy, scientific research and Brexit. The composition of a delegation to the European Council for the purposes of the MFF and the negotiations is therefore completely independent of the Belgian position in the MFF negotiations. These views are, moreover, always formed with the active participation of regional experts and Cabinets. In concrete terms, this means that each time the MFF is discussed at the General Affairs Council and the European Council, a formal consultation is organised between all the Belgian parties concerned, i.e. with the participation of the Regions. This prior coordination, which enables the Minister at the negotiating table to defend our country's interests as best as possible, is fully in line with the cooperation agreement between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions, with regard to the representation of the Kingdom of Belgium in the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, it is very good that prior consultation is taking place, but you know as well as I do that it must be possible to play very briefly on the ball. There are often issues on which last minute decisions need to be made. It seems to me essential that there is not only consultation, but that the general representative sits effectively at the table. If I have understood your answer correctly, you refuse to include it in the Belgian delegation. That's how I interpret your answer, isn't it? It is a good thing that very intensive consultations are being held in advance at all levels. In doing so, it is essential to be at the table first-hand, to be able to hear that information first-hand and make decisions in this way. That is why we are asking for this Member to be included in the Belgian delegation. If I understand your answer correctly, you refuse to include that Member in that delegation. That's how I interpret your answer, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, I simply note that what has happened so far is perfectly in line with the cooperation agreement. So far, everyone's interests have been respected. The interests of all are respected, the cooperation agreement is respected and the previous negotiations are respected. I do not know exactly how we will organise things in the future. However, in a difficult country like ours, I really advocate respect for the cooperation agreement. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u14	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, do you have a final reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u15	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the last word is always for Members of Parliament. You refer to the cooperation agreement, but that is precisely where the problem lies. The cooperation agreement dates back to 1994. Meanwhile, there have been several state reforms. The cooperation agreement has not been adapted to these reforms, with the exception of the Energy and Environment category, if I am right. On the other hand, the General Affairs Council still falls under category 1, which is an exclusive federal competence. However, the Council discusses matters which are equally of interest to the Länder. The agreement is therefore completely out of date. Moreover, the previous coalition agreement explicitly states that urgent action must be taken to update the cooperation agreement, because it is no longer in line with the current state reform. By referring now to the fact that everything for the negotiations is carried out in accordance with the cooperation agreement, which is, however, completely obsolete, you are actually indicating that there is a weakness in relation to the regions, which are therefore in a less favourable position in the negotiations. I can only take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u16	Question No 55001538C by Mr Laaouej is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, I apologise for my many questions today, but the issue remains at my heart after my term of office in the European Parliament. It is a coincidence that all these questions, some of which I had submitted a long time ago, are all on this afternoon's agenda. At the meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in October there was a commotion about the start of accession negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia. France and the Netherlands indicated their clear opposition to the start of accession negotiations. The N-VA fully agrees with that view, given that these countries are still very far from the Copenhagen criteria, the accession criteria. The whole debate on the possible start of accession negotiations with these countries is, in our view, a sign of the recent discontent with the current enlargement policy, in particular with regard to the way in which countries can join. The French President Macron has put on the table a non-paper to reform the accession process. In concrete terms, he wants to replace the current process of negotiating each chapter of the acquis communautaire, divided into 35 chapters, with a seven-stage trajectory. It places particular emphasis on gradual integration and on much stricter conditions for moving towards European standards and values. It is entirely new that the possibility is also provided for to reduce the process. I do not need to remind you that negotiations have been going on with Turkey for a very long time. Now, on the basis of the new proposal, it could be decided to reduce the process. The Netherlands, Denmark and Germany have given their full support to the proposals contained in President Macron's non-paper. Madam Prime Minister, what is our government's position on President Macron's proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u18	You do not have to apologize for the number of questions, Mrs Van Bossuyt. You're proving your interest. I know now, of course, how it is that you have so much knowledge about this matter, which is putting pressure on my shoulders, but I am delighted to answer your questions. It is important for the six countries in the Western Balkans to maintain the long-term perspective for their accession. That is in our own interest. Our evaluation of the reforms in northern Macedonia is positive. Moreover, the Prespa agreement, although not part of the accession conditions, is an important example of reconciliation in the region. We also recognise Albania's efforts. However, there are still some problems. In the fight against corruption and drug trafficking, for example, we note that the progress made by the two countries is still insufficient. Nevertheless, we believe that the prospect of accession must remain real. It has always been clear to Belgium that the dossiers of North Macedonia and Albania are not a whole, but that each candidate country must be assessed on its own merits. We are, of course, open to an in-depth analysis of how the accession process can be made more effective. We will take a constructive approach to the proposals to improve the enlargement methodology. The French document, to which you referred, contains several useful concepts. We are waiting impatiently for a concrete proposal from the European Commission to be drawn up. It is essential that we reach a new common EU position by the March European Council. This will be an important signal for the region. It is important that the EU communicates clearly with the region and confirms the European accession perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u19	Thank you very much for your reply, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, this question was tabled some time ago and has been somewhat repeated. I will put them in a different form as a member of the Climate Commission. I have a confession to make. When we discuss the state structure, I am not really interested in it, but the division of climate policy gives me a great deal of irritation. I also wonder who is responsible for this. In the debate on the National Energy and Climate Plan, as at the COP in Madrid, four climate ministers are negotiating separately. That's a painful picture. How do you deal with that as Prime Minister? The views of our Regions differ. The level of ambition is not the same everywhere. You are being asked to take a stand, including on the Green New Deal. How do you deal with that? Is there criticism from Europe because we deal with this far too fragmentedly? Or is the Paris agreement the guiding principle for you? Is that how you entered into these negotiations, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, since many elements have just been mentioned, I will not go back to that. A very important question is whether the Belgian position to be taken in the debate will first be discussed in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, the European Green Deal project was presented last week. It proposes a set of objectives and fifty measures to make Europe a climate neutral continent in 2050. This is an ambitious project that ecologists fully support. The project affects a large number of sectors. We are talking about sinking carbon neutrality into a law that would be introduced next March in order to make political commitment a legal obligation. We are talking about raising European targets to at least 50% and moving towards 55% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. [[Today we are at "at least 40%".]] The financial effort will obviously be important. We are talking about 260 billion euros of additional investments, or about 1.5% of European GDP in 2018. There will have to be strong agreements between European heads of state, even if there are large differences in terms of analysis, ambition and voluntarism. Madam Prime Minister, what position did Belgium hold with regard to the Green Deal during the last European Summit? What objectives have been defended in terms of reducing carbon emissions and amounts of public investment? What are the next steps in the Green Deal discussions and how does the government intend to address them? Does Belgium intend to play a leading role in these discussions by associating with other ambitious climate countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u23	Thank you for the questions. Mr President, the difficulty in this exercise is not to repeat too much of what we have just said and try not to contradict each other. First of all, I would like to refer to the answers I have already given in the long discussion we have just had, although I understand that we cannot be everywhere at once and that we do not wish to withdraw our question. What is very important, given the different attitudes of the regions, is that at the end of the journey the 2020-2030 target was confirmed by everyone. It is the complete freedom of the Regions to decide within their own powers how they want to achieve this and at what rate. I have a great deal of respect for the division of powers. It is therefore not for me to tell anyone how to exercise their own powers. At the end of the journey, the 2020-2030 target was thus confirmed. In addition, we confirmed at several summits that we are maintaining the 2020-2050 target on climate neutrality. That is the objective, but there will be a lot of discussions on how to achieve it. As I said, we must not forget that Belgium is internationally recognized for its capabilities, its know-how and its sense of compromise. This is a demonstration that we will still have to make with a compromise that takes account of each other's positions and difficulties, which are not always the same in the North or the South. It is a truth to which attention must also be paid. In the conclusions of the European climate summit, there is much talk about the differences in starting points at national level. It is indeed considered that not everyone leaves the same level, and does not have the same challenges, even if the objective must remain the same. Belgium's point of view is that of which I have just spoken, with questions still being asked about financing, through specific funds or a horizontal policy in the MFF or through the EIB's ability to raise public and private funds. Belgium wishes to incorporate the budgetary path into the general reflection. This is based on the premise that countries with fiscal difficulties cannot be asked at the same time to invest and enter into strong consolidation trajectories. The last point I have made clearly is that it is essential that all European and national political partners listen to the call of scientists, young people and young people on the climate issue. We must avoid transforming this momentum of hope and interest by taking radically counterproductive or perceived measures by the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, you say that all regions have endorsed the 2030 target and that you are following the Paris climate agreement. We are not here to judge another parliament, but I believe that some people are still on the brakes. However, we will see that. We certainly support that ambition. My point is that it is a global problem and that the division in our country makes it even more complex. I fear that no one will be happy about this, especially not about the four climate ministers in Madrid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. An important element, for which I would like to thank you, is your recognition that the situation in Flanders and Wallonia is simply different. For example, Flanders has a very large petrochemical sector, which is not the case in Wallonia, so the starting point is different for both regions. That does not alter the fact that both regions must show ambition, which I believe they are doing. They each come up with concrete measures in their own way to achieve their stated ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. The report of the previous discussion will be carefully examined. As far as we are concerned, we believe that Belgium must be in the lead in terms of climate ambition. Unlike Mrs Verduyckt, I do not believe that there is much difference in the air to breathe, the environment and the climate when you live in Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders. I am delighted to see that the European Union is in the lead. Belgium must play a very important role here. The place where we live doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u27	Mr. Chairman, I will put my three questions together. The first concerns the impact of cybercrime on Belgian companies. Prime Minister, the press is looking back at the risks of cybercrime to our businesses, which has claimed many lives around the world in recent years. The Vias Institute has published its first barometer on crime affecting Belgian companies. As a result, 43 per cent of the companies surveyed have already been victims of cybercrime. Of the 273 small and large companies surveyed, more than one third say that they are very afraid of being victims of online crime in the years to come. According to the Vias Institute, the situation is all the more problematic as 38% of companies report not being sufficiently prepared to deal with this crime. Prime Minister, have you been aware of this report? If so, what is your view of the situation in a comprehensive manner? Are you considering further strengthening regulation? If so, how? What types of problems do companies face and how often? My second question concerns the review of the Network and Information Security (NIS) law on cybersecurity in Belgium. Prime Minister, cybersecurity is ubiquitous in the news. In fact, cyberattacks are increasing in all sectors of the economy, as well as in those of essential and government services. The answer to this problem can be found in part in the NIS Directive 2016/1148. This European Directive was transposed in Belgium by the NIS Act of 7 April 2019, which entered into force on 3 May 2019. It pursues a main objective: to ensure a high and common level of security for the European Union's networks and information systems. I know that it is very early, just seven months after the implementation of this law, but, Madam Prime Minister, can you already take a first look at the transposition of this European directive? Finally, I come to the European Commission's report on cybersecurity in the Member States. The report was published on 28 October. It shows how Member States have identified public and private organisations that need to implement cybersecurity measures and report computer incidents. These organisations, often referred to as operators of essential services, are obviously active in the crucial sectors of the economy and society. These include health care, transportation, energy, financial services, water supply, which must be particularly resistant to cyber attacks. To this end, the Commission asked the 28 Member States to send their information by 9 November 2018. However, by that date only 15 countries had provided the data. The Commission then beat the reminder, on several occasions, to the Member States. But this was not enough because six countries, including Belgium, did not carry out their activities. The Commission has therefore sent them a letter of formal notice to provide such information within two months. In the annexes to the Commission's report, a table can be found which contains the data provided or not in time by the Member States. It is a real wall of shame for our country, since it is clearly shown to be the worst student in Europe. But since then, we may have responded. In any case, not only are Belgian data sent late, as in other countries, but they are also missing. Prime Minister, how can we explain the slow pace in following up on this issue, which is still essential, since it is a question of the cybersecurity of public and private companies? Does Belgium not face a reprimand from the European Commission for dragging so much? What is the situation with regard to the implementation of European cybercrime rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u28	Mr. Kir, my team is enthusiastic and serious in preparing the answers. So these will be almost as long as your question. You will therefore be entitled to a full answer. Besides, it's an interesting subject. Cybercrime is an important phenomenon: the method is evolving, working techniques are improving and the number of victims is increasing, as confirmed again in the report of the Vias Institute, to which you referred. Aware of the threat, Belgium has therefore developed an appropriate prevention policy. As I had the opportunity to recall at the plenary session on 21 November, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) was established in 2014. Since then, it has conducted various campaigns for both the public and private sectors. This year, he developed his awareness campaign with a focus on the human factor of phishing. The CWB has also published numerous guides and advice on its website, based on international standards for SMEs and their IT managers. The CWB has also operationalized the Early Warning System, which enables the main threats against Belgium to be received in open source. In addition, it works in favour of federal governments by offering them good practices. According to Brightsight, a specialist in cybersecurity – and although progress still needs to be made – Belgium was ranked fifth out of the 28 EU Member States last June – in terms of cybersecurity. It's not that bad, far from it! In 2018, we were still in 11th place in the rankings. So you clearly see an improvement. To answer your question about the problems encountered and their frequency, in 2018, CERT (the CWB operational service) received 1,600 notifications of incidents. In 2019, this figure has increased significantly, as it already stands at 4,484. This represents an increase of 180%. Federal police also reported an increase of 40% in cybercrime reporting in 2019. However, these figures are only part of the iceberg. Indeed, companies do not systematically report having been victims of a cyber incident or do not systematically file complaints. In October 2019, the CWB received an average of 8,000 suspicious phishing emails daily on its dedicated address and, thanks to this, was able to block dozens of phishing sites per day. You also discussed the NIS law. In this regard, I would like to give you a number of points. In 2016, the European Union adopted Directive (EU) 2016/1148, aimed at ensuring a high level of network and information system security linked in particular to essential services and certain digital services provided in the European Union. The Directive provided for the identification by each Member State of operators of essential services (CSOs), active in their territory by 9 November 2018. The transposition of this Directive was carried out by the law of 7 April 2019 establishing a framework for the security of networks and information systems of general interest for public security (the NIS law) and its implementing decree of 12 July 2019. Thus, the NIS law requires that each sectoral authority (Minister of Energy, Minister of Mobility, Minister of Maritime Mobility, Minister of Public Health, BNB, FSMA, IBPT) formally identify the SSOs in its sector within six months of the entry into force of the law, i.e. no later than 3 November 2019. The identification process has indeed taken time, as it requires prior consultations at the international or national level, as well as an individualised analysis of the essential services provided and the risks involved. Belgium requested and obtained from the European Commission a postponement until 26 November 2019 of the transmission of certain relevant information, including the number of essential service operators (CSOs) identified by sector in Belgium. However, the Directive provided for a binding deadline for the submission by the European Commission of a general report on the identification of ESOs in the different Member States. For Belgium, as for other States, the Commission was not able to incorporate all the requested data into its report since the identification process was still under way. In November 2019, the first phase of identification of SSOs was carried out in the transport, finance, energy and digital infrastructure sectors. As regards the drinking water sector, the regional authorities concerned have already prepared the identification of operators in their Region, pending the establishment of a national committee. In the area of public health, discussions are underway with the CWB as part of the process of identifying ESOs. The delay in the formal identification of ESOs therefore does not mean that the level of cybersecurity of entities providing essential services in Belgium is less favourable than that of its European counterparts or that Belgium is exposed to European reprimands. The law of 1 July 2011 on the security and protection of critical infrastructures and the general regulation on the protection of personal data already require potential SSOs which will soon be formally identified as such to take security measures and to notify cyber incidents. The CWB has also created a consultation platform called the Cybersecurity Sector Authority Platform, which brings together representatives of the various sectoral authorities in the fields of energy, transport, financial institutions and markets, health, digital infrastructure, digital service providers and the nuclear sector, as well as the National Crisis Centre and the CWB, on a quarterly basis. The law requires essential service operators (CSOs) to notify without delay all incidents that have a significant impact on the availability, confidentiality, integrity or authenticity of the networks and information systems on which the essential service(s) they provide depend. This notification must be made simultaneously to the CWB, the National Crisis Centre and the sectoral authority of their sector. At this stage, the CWB has not received any notification. An Incident Reporting Platform (NIS) is also operational and a collaboration protocol between sectoral entities is being finalized. The development of a new national cybersecurity strategy is also at an advanced stage. Finally, since 2018, the CWB has held Quarterly Threat Report meetings, which address key threats, vulnerabilities and incidents. Last October, on the basis of information provided by the sectoral authorities, the CWB invited representatives of potential essential service operators to this type of meeting. So you can see, depending on what I have told you, that the subject is being dealt with very seriously and that many initiatives are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u29	Prime Minister, I was obviously worried when I wrote these questions. But I already have some answers that show the extent of the work that is being done. There is a significant increase in reporting figures. This is both worrying, because situations are on the ground, but it is also rewarding, because work is being done. I know that the numbers are always to be taken with tweezers, since we can make them say a lot of things. On the other hand, with regard to the very concrete elements to be sent to the European side, we see that the work is under way. Of course, the law has only been implemented for a few months. How long do you think it will take to respond to the European Commission and provide these elements? Maybe another semester? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u30	I do not have the information, but I can send it to you, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic074x.u31	Thank you very much.
