ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, you know that the questions that are asked in committee are not always relevant. It is dated 26 November 2018. A delegation of paediatricians was received at INAMI on 26 November 2018 to study the implications of the introduction of the new flat-rate funding for low variability care for the newborn. We've already talked about it here, minister. A detailed analysis of post-birth benefits was presented and discussed. It appears that the amounts for birth assistance and other neonatology benefits amount to less than two million euros per year. These include resuscitation, lumbar puncture and CPAP ventilation. Following a meeting held in front of your office on 13 December, the paediatricians' representatives expressed regret that all their services and care, in the context of childbirth and its possible follow-up in non-intensive neonatology, were included in the lump sum funding for a birth without severe complication for the mother. According to Dr. Pierre Philippet, president of the Belgian Groupement des Pediatricères de Langue Française, "a moderate premature baby, who needs to be placed in an incubator with a feeding probe or ventilation device, is normally treated following childbirth in non-intensive neonatology. All this care, involving a pediatrician, will have to be financed with the same single package, that of a normal delivery considered as hospital care with low variability". Minister, do you confirm that it is only when the newborn is sent back to an intensive neonatology service, with a much wider and more extensive range of care, that we will get out of the standard package? Why not take more specific account of the care given to the newborn in non-intensive neonatology service? Do you not think that this system will cause pediatricians to return the newborn to intensive neonatology faster in order to allow for additional billing? It would be interesting to clarify the work carried out in this framework before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u2	Madam President, Mr Senesael, I confirm that the pathologies of newborns staying in an intensive neonatology service (NIC) are not included in the new low variability care system that started on January 1. We have largely taken into account the care of newborns in a non-intensive neonatology service. There is a whole series of pediatrician fees for a newborn staying in functions whose numbers I will give you. Some functions have been excluded from the new system. Of the €93.3 million in paediatric fees for hospitalized patients, according to the 2014 figure, only €365 000 is spent on paediatric fees for patients staying in hospital as part of low variability care. This demonstrates the extent to which the benefits achieved have been largely spared under the new system. Finally, I recall that the Royal Decree of 23 October 1964 – 55 years old – setting the standards to be met by hospitals and their services, and in particular the standards for intensive neonatology services, provides that the NCI service is exclusively reserved for the admission and treatment of newborns who are in special conditions of illness or threatening their lives. I therefore do not expect that the change in hospital funding will have any effect on the conditions of illness threatening the lives of newborns born after January 1, 2019. I would point out that we have already told the paediatricians that the points that you raise will be resolved in the short term, because INAMI was responsible for setting up the doubling of the mother-child bill in the event of childbirth. Previously, it was always the case that at the time the baby did not have a social security number immediately. There was an invoice in the mother's name and baby care was added. We will provide paediatricians with a concrete time frame as soon as possible. I heard things are moving forward in INAMI. Be aware that this has important legal, technical, information technology and organizational implications. This applies not only to invoicing but also to the recording of minimum hospital summaries (MHR). That is why we want to prepare everything properly, not only to allow insurers but also hospitals to make the necessary adjustments. In November, it was requested that this be done before 1 January 2019. This was impossible given the legal and technical aspects as well as the accounting aspects of hospitals. We have asked for a review of the situation and it will take place in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am often surprised, depending on what you can read or hear and what you tell us, by the significant variability that may exist. I really think that there is often a lack of communication, and I consider this comment to be positive. I have the impression that when the sector or sub-sectors come back to us after measures have been taken or explained, we do not perceive the harmonisation between the request addressed to us and the answer you give us, when it would be so easy to speak to understand each other, which would make the questions superfluous. I therefore sometimes wonder whether this communication is missing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u4	You have good intentions, but I don't think that's the case. They have been with us for hours, everything has been explained in the presence of technicians, the same reasoning has been followed with the anesthetists, so that the communication of such information in the press is really an act of bad faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u5	I don't want to make a judgment, but I find it a little unfortunate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u6	Other sources provide this information to the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u7	Madam President, this morning I was also able to read the elements that were mentioned. The Minister will be able to explain this. Minister, as our questions are always tabled well before the committee meeting, developments have taken place in this area. At the time I was drafting my question, you were planning to amend in the short term the royal decree setting out the nursing activities that could be carried out by nursing assistants. You were given a double page in Sud Presse, which gave explanations in an educational and didactic way. It is in no way my intention to be controversial, but this project, the General Union of Nurses of Belgium (UGIB), calls it unacceptable. For example, the UGIB estimates that the 150 hours of additional training you are planning in this project so that nursing assistants can carry out certain nursing activities under their supervision are largely insufficient to ensure the quality of care, the safety of patients, caregivers and nurses who delegate their actions. In their view, 1,280 hours of training should be provided, along with a new title, a new function and an appropriate scale. It would also seem that the UGIB is not the only one to question your project, since the Federal Council of Nursing Art and the Technical Commission of Nursing Art have also rejected your proposal. Minister, can you provide an update on the discussions that took place at the meeting between your office and the representatives of the UGIB on December 5th? The situation changed until the middle of the first quarter. Therefore, do the comments and criticisms made by the UGIB that I have just listed seem to you justified? What answers and, above all, what follow-up do you intend to give to them in view of what I have been able to read in the press since last weekend? In short, what are your plans and expectations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u8	Mr Senesael, of Vlaamse Zorg ambassador had proposed eight hours, the UGIB had proposed a year! She thinks 150 hours is way too much! That's what was in the press this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u9	You see that when you ask for opinions, we get answers that are sometimes very far away from each other. The royal decree was published yesterday, March 18. So your question is very relevant. We know that it is already possible for a nurse to delegate a limited number of acts to a caregiver. As part of the public consultation on the reform of Royal Decree No. 78, the health care sector instructed me to undertake a review of the regulation of the nursing profession. Indeed, the list of actions that can be carried out by caregivers is very limited and could be expanded to provide better support to nurses. Eighteen acts are listed. That's not much! In this regard, I have received various opinions, including that of the Federal Council of Nursing in 2017 on the differentiation of functions within this art. In that opinion, he proposed the creation of a new profession of care assistant. That was far from expanding the delegation's package! I have said on several occasions, including in committee, that I do not want to create a new one because this intermediary is still too vague. I have asked the Technical Committee on Nursing, subsequently, to take into account my wish not to create a new profession and to give me an opinion on updating the acts which can be carried out by health-care workers. In April 2018, the Commission recommended that, in the short term, the skills of caregivers be expanded by a number of actions, such as tension-taking, administration of drops in the eyes or ears, feeding people with swallowing disorders... The full opinion is available on the Public Health FPS website. Through the Interministerial Conference on Public Health, the federal entities responsible for education were also invited to decide on the training that should be provided in exchange for these additional skills. I have received the opinions of the Communities. Training hours range from eight to one hundred and sixty. Then, the Federal Council of Nursing also gave me an opinion, proposing a training of 1,280 hours – one additional year of study. All these opinions were analysed and discussed with the relevant occupational groups. Caregivers indicated that they had not been sufficiently involved in drawing up the opinion of the Technical Committee on Nursing, which I find a pity. Some of the actions recommended by the Commission were considered too risky. For this reason, I have decided not to retain in the draft royal decree certain acts contained in the opinion of the Technical Commission. I am thinking, for example, of the administration of medicines by hypodermoclysis and the subcutaneous administration of insulin. The groups concerned had expressed their concern about these methods. The acts adopted were discussed with the presidents of the Federal Council of Nursing and the Technical Commission of Nursing and with the General Union of Nurses of Belgium. Certain acts recommended by the Technical Commission have not been taken up and reasons have been given. Several discussions have concerned the training to be taken by caregivers in order to be able to carry out these additional acts. We had agreed to start with a minimum of 120 hours. Once adopted, it was raised up to 150 hours, at the request of the President of the Federal Council for Nursing and the Technical Commission for Nursing. This additional training should be used to demonstrate that individuals have acquired the skills required to carry out new nursing activities. It should be pointed out that this is not mandatory, as some caregivers may already be well advanced in their working lives. Half of the overtime will also be available during working hours. So the calculation that was in the paper today doesn't add up either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u10	Madam President, thank you for your answer. I wasn't aware of how we could find this too long distance between the 8 hours and the 1,260 hours you're talking about. This morning, we read the royal decree dated yesterday. You give a lot of detail on how this order will respond to each other's requests and the details you have just specified. If I could have your answer, it would suit me very much. I will not give a reply in the immediate future, since in what you are developing, there are very positive points, which seem to me to respond to the demands of the sector. On the other hand, I still have a few questions. I will read your answer and may have one or two technical questions that I will ask you in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u11	All for three enlargement tasks or maybe five. Okay, I can't fall out of character here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u12	Madam Minister, these questions were also tabled in December or January. This is the clawback. Your last policy paper clearly states: "The compensatory levy, with a yield of EUR 105 million, is also entered once in the budget." It seems strange to me that an amount which is not collected until there is an excess and therefore the budget is incorrect can serve to balance the budget. That seems to me to be a contradiction. Madam Secretary, why is your policy paper on "one-time-one-year-old" talk? How am I supposed to understand that? Isn't that a contradiction? Are you considering adjusting this? I hope this isn't meant to be a push-over to another minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u13	Mrs Dedry, my answer will be very brief. There's no contradiction. On 15 October, the General Council decided to include a one-off receipt of the compensatory levy in the budget in 2019, the so-called clawback. That will not happen automatically in the next budget. Therefore, this is a single registered receipt. After all, we know that there will be an overrun; that was already calculated. We have included them in the budget because otherwise we would have to make additional savings of EUR 105 million, while at the end we would still have the clawback. That is why the overrun has now been recorded. The bill in that regard was adopted in this committee. If it is adopted by Parliament on Thursday, the receipt of the clawback will take place in 2019. However, there will be no effect on the next budgets or on the next minister. If people say this is a $100 million gift, it's a misunderstanding. It is the difference between what is decided in the Insurance Committee or in the General Board. There's that 105 million from the clawback. It is important to consider how health care can be financed through a separate circuit. The mutualities have already understood. The clawback will be taken because he's definitely there. The sum of 105 million is rightly entered on a one-off basis because it is certain only for this year. We do not, therefore, make any preliminaries of what will happen in the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u14	Madam Minister, that has become somewhat clear to me over the last few months, but my question dates from somewhere in December 2018 or January 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u15	Madam Minister, my question dates back to January, so a number of questions may be out of date. However, I do my best to update them. As a reminder, a medicine that initially cost EUR 38 cost EUR 12 750 per month through market manipulation and abuse of European regulations at a certain time. That's why ten patients threatened to drop out of the drug. The Special Solidarity Fund was then plundered by a single producer. Following this report, we learned that dozens of products cost multiples of the price for which pharmacists could cook magically. The savings for health care could, of course, amount to millions. A topical question has already been asked, Madam Minister, so I will update my questions. We were not talking about this at the time, and there is already a little more clarity about it. With regard to the drug DCA, there was clearly market manipulation and abuse of power in play. In the meantime, have you taken any action against that? Why is the authorisation for a majestic preparation of DCA by the UZ Leuven no longer applicable? I wanted to ask what led to this, but apparently it is a lack of quality raw materials. The most important question concerns the abuse of power by the company Leadiant. Can you do anything about that? Or did you take action against it? Finally, many products were found to be very expensive, while there is a majestic preparation that could save health insurance up to 100 million. Following that incident, the pharmacists informed you that they had provided you with a list of 10 such products. Are you going to answer this question? Will the pharmacists receive your support and permission to make those majestic preparations at a cheaper price?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u16	Madam Secretary, I agree with you. A lot has already appeared in the media with regard to DCA, so I am not going to repeat the whole case. You said elsewhere that there would be a temporary solution; I do not know whether you said that in plenary or in committee. In any case, there is already a temporary solution, you have an agreement on this. So without falling back into the old case and the media story, which gave rise to the question, I would like to join my colleague's questions. Can we learn anything from the Dutch solutions? Can we take over something from here in our country? What can you do at European level to deal with unfair regulation? Can you make compulsory licences possible in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u17	The Dutch solution, which was no longer a solution because of the impurity of the preparation, was only 99.7 % pure, while 100 % pure, is also legally possible in Belgium. It was also used at the Leuven hospital. Both hospitals and pharmacies open to the public may prepare majestic preparations containing phenodeoxycholic acid or CDCA, provided that that raw material meets all the criteria laid down in the Royal Decree of 19 December 1997 on the control and analysis of the raw materials used by the official pharmacists. The provision of DCAs in the form of magistral preparations made by hospital pharmacists is currently not an option, as the DCA raw material is unavailable. Without raw material, a majestic preparation is impossible. Together with the Leuven University Hospital, the FAGG has explored a number of ideas in order to be able to re-purchase the raw material. However, there is also a monopoly on raw materials by the same company. So these slopes don't bring any comfort. It's really criminal what's happening there. The FAGG is monitoring the situation very closely. It can be confirmed from contacts with suppliers that the aim is to have a compliant raw material available on the Belgian market as soon as possible. A solution is also being worked out in the short term. It consists of the reimbursement of the authorised medicines through the Special Solidarity Fund. That solution does not yet apply; it is a stick behind the door. There is a ceiling of EUR 1 250 per year. The European regulation on orphan medicinal products is generally an important incentive for the provision of medicinal products for rare diseases for which there would be no therapy. So she has proved her worth in this respect. In fact, there are a limited number of cases where certain modalities of the Regulation make it unintentionally possible for producers to apply for the orphan medicinal product status for specialities which do not provide innovation in the treatment of the disease in question, which is contrary to the philosophy of that Regulation. That is the case here. The medicine was recognised by the EEA as an orphan medicine after 60 years on the market for digestive disorders. There's a real stupidity there. I have already mentioned this on several occasions, and it has been recognised at both Belgian and European level. I have also reported it to Mrs Vestager of the European Commission and I await her reply. I would argue that such loopholes should be closed, because they are certainly being really abused in the case cited. The fact that a 60-year-old medicinal product is given the title of an orphan medicinal product when there is no extra effect, so that the medicinal product can be stored and a monopoly is created, not only for the manufacture of the medicinal product but also for the purchase of the raw materials, I call it a maffic practice. At the moment there is also a consultation on the regulation with the various stakeholders, with the aim of identifying pain points in the regulation and the European framework for orphan medicinal products, a consultation in which we have indeed already participated twice on the European agenda through the FAGG and the Belgian representation in the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products. The specific problem is included in the responses to the consultation. For the treatment of other rare diseases, the FAGG is currently investigating the possibility of structural reimbursement by the RIZIV of treatments through majestic preparations. In order to allow majestic preparations, we must first have high-quality raw materials. In the meantime, we were given two new tickets, which were examined, one of which unfortunately does not appear to be sufficiently pure. The majestic preparations seem to be a viable solution, provided, of course, that we can find the appropriate raw material. Compulsory licences for orphan medicinal products to be produced in such small quantities are not really good, given the following comments. Intellectual rights are the cornerstone of innovation and there is a risk that companies will no longer develop innovative products by granting compulsory licences or only when there is absolute certainty about property rights. However, these rights should not be abused in order to demand unjustified exorbitant prices and prevent competition on the market. Moreover, for organic products, cell or gene therapies or ATMPs, there are not many companies that have the necessary technologies or can develop such technologies. Even with a compulsory licence, the production of such medicines requires a large investment. For example, production within one year is not possible, making the investment unattractive to companies, as the compulsory licence applies only for a certain period and then ends. So I think we need to find other structural solutions. At the same time, we must continue to exert pressure at European level. The award of the orphan medicinal product label by the EEA, in this case after the 60th anniversary of the medicinal product in question, meant that a truly mafiary practice could be set up. In the meantime, we have also received help from Mr Coucke, who runs a raw materials company. I think his offer is friendly and we have also given our full cooperation. So far, however, no solution has been found in this direction either. I'll just say it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u18	Mr Coucke made a number of statements on this subject, and I also raised the question of whether or not that was possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u19	Not so far, but I appreciate the fact that he did.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u20	Of course, me too. I also note that there is a consultation on the gaps in the regulation on orphan medicinal products. In addition, I note that there is an investigation from the FAGG into obtaining more pure raw materials. At least we'll follow up on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u21	I agree with Mrs Jiroflée's last remark. When it comes to Europe and the closing of loopholes, it is not easy to do so in many cases. There's still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u22	Madam President, let me make a little point before I ask my question. In many cases, those who ask for the Minister to be present in this committee to answer their questions are not there to ask them. Recently questioned by a doctor in my region about the shortage of certain drugs, I went on March 11 on the website of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products. This site indicated that, as of the above date, 441 drugs were "temporarily unavailable". I think this is a record. While there are sometimes treatment alternatives, this is not the case for all medicines, which is obviously problematic for patients. In the opinion of the Belgian pharmaceutical association, there are more and more cases where there is no suitable solution. In such cases, it is necessary to either stop therapy for some time or, where it is not possible, opt for less optimal treatment, which could be called a second choice. On the other hand, it turns out that when many patients turn to the only alternative available to them, they too may be out of stock. So it is the law of supply and demand, in a way. This situation has recently been observed with a drug for managing alcoholism. The same applies to certain vaccines, for example the hepatitis A vaccine is out of stock. In order to remedy this problem, patients are therefore obliged to be covered by a vaccine which protects them from hepatitis A and B, but which obviously costs twice as much. As you know, my colleague André Frédéric and I are not specialists, but we are constantly on the lookout for patient protection. This problem of shortage of medicines is not new and comes back regularly to the news. A text has recently been discussed in our Committee on Public Health in order to provide an answer to the problem. This text will probably be positive, see extremely positive, but nevertheless insufficient. What specific actions have you taken or, to ask the question differently, what solutions have you found to address these shortages of medicines? We know that the pharmaceutical industry has put in place resources, but has it put all the means in place to reduce the shortcomings for Belgian patients? Among the options put forward by pharmacists are the end of quotas. Minister, what is your view on this proposal? Above all, how can we meet the patient's legitimate expectations for their medication to be delivered in time and in sufficient quantity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u23	Madam President, Mr Senesael, thank you for your question. A working group has been set up at the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) in collaboration with INAMI, as well as pharmacists, hospital pharmacists, pharmaceutical companies and distributors. This working group meets to seek solutions to deal with unavailability, as well as preventive solutions to prevent unavailability. Several actions have been undertaken, such as the establishment of a decision tree to take appropriate measures in case of unavailability in order to minimize the consequences for patients. The assessment of unavailability is based on specific criteria, which does not imply a clear conclusion for all of these unavailabilitys. Indeed, the initial assessment takes into account the following elements: the duration of unavailability, the number of alternative medicinal products, i.e. with the same active substance and method of administration, and the indication. In most cases, unavailability is not considered critical but is under surveillance. Conversely, if unavailability may be at risk, the AFMPS will contact the manufacturer for further information. Are there any remaining stocks? What is the seriousness of the situation? What are the reasons? What are the possible solutions? She also contacts manufacturers of alternative medicines in order to anticipate a possible increase in orders. If major problems are expected, the AFMPS will check whether there are other equivalent therapeutic alternatives, as well as the possibility of obtaining an exemption and imports of the stocks originally planned abroad. In the case of critical stock failures, a task force composed of internal and external experts meets to find alternatives: treatments with other medicines, master preparations, restrictions on use, etc. With regard to the medicinal products mentioned, AFMPS has not received any notification for Ocrévus since its marketing on 27 February 2018; the Subcutane Imitrex, indicated against migraine headaches, has been returning to the Belgian market since 6 December 2018. With regard to the proposal for a law submitted to the European Commission for its opinion, the Commission did not give a final opinion on the proposal, but proposed some important elements to be taken into account when analysing it, in order to see whether it constituted an obstacle to free movement. We believe that this is not the case. The proposal for a law under consideration in our committee is intended to guarantee the continued supply of products to Belgian wholesalers and pharmacies. The proposal also strengthens the definition of unavailability and the notification of unavailability. Thus, a product will be considered unavailable as soon as the firm is unable to respond to an order within 72 hours. In addition, unavailability should be notified at the latest when the product is considered unavailable. AFMPS is also developing an online platform that will help improve communication on the unavailability of medicines in Belgium. This application will have two components: on the one hand, the exchange of information between a pharmacist, wholesaler-distributor and marketing authorisation holders, and on the other hand, the expiry of the information between marketing authorisation holders and AFMPS. This system will be used to transmit notifications to AFMPS in case of discontinuation of the marketing of a medicinal product or in case of temporary unavailability. Marketing authorisation holders are required to notify changes in the availability of medicinal products. All information will be accessible via the software of doctors and pharmacists. The production of this platform is expected in the third quarter of 2019. As you indicate, it is currently difficult to measure exactly the extent of the problem of unavailability, since we can only base our analysis on the data provided by pharmaceutical companies by specifying the definition of unavailability, by shortening the deadlines for notification of unavailability and by providing for fines in case of non-compliance. By establishing the platform, we will also be able to ensure a more complete and correct view of the situation. It should be recalled that real unavailability, for example caused by a production problem, may still occur. The actions described above do not prevent this type of unavailability, but are intended to reduce the impact they have on the patient. This is why the working group is also exploring possible measures to prevent these unavailabilitys. However, standards imposed on the pharmaceutical industry, such as the use of several production lines, cannot be more stringent in Belgium than in the other Member States, as this could have a reverse effect. This type of action must therefore be taken at European level. This is why the AFMPS is actively involved in working groups at this level. As far as quotas are concerned, this was, as you said, voted here in committee. The incompatibility of the status of wholesaler-partitioner and exporter would result in pharmaceutical companies being guaranteed that any product ordered by the wholesaler-partitioner will be intended for Belgian patients. This is in line with the proposal put forward by pharmacists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u24	Madam President, Madam Minister, before I turn to my reply, I would like to say two things. I think this is the last question-and-answer session before the end of the legislature. I wanted to congratulate you. To all our questions, you answered as fully as possible. We may disagree, but I owe you respect. I think that I have rarely seen ministers so regularly in advance, at the disposal of Parliament to answer questions. I want to thank you for that. Madam Minister, we debated this issue two weeks ago. In response to my inquiry, you recalled the importance of the decision tree. I think that now it is clear, and that everyone has been able to appropriate the necessary response elements. With regard to this assessment of unavailability, Madam Minister, I can of course only support your statement, whether it is in terms of the duration or the number of alternative drugs. We had talked about it and I remember very well the answers you gave me. I would like to clarify the variability of the patient, who is neither scientific nor sometimes objectivable. Chronic, long-term illness, it may be distressing not to find the necessary medication at the right time and timely. It is on this point that I would like to conclude. Whether it is you or the other ministers, when giving the opportunity to operate drugs to pharmaceutical companies, it should be guaranteed that, as soon as a drug is placed on the market, it is available on the basis of established analyses. You called him back a couple of weeks ago. I feel like you're telling us because you have to, but without conviction. You're saying the task force is meeting. I am sure that is true, but it must meet with concrete and achievable objectives. To meet together, you know very well as I do that it is barren, Madam Minister. You're pragmatic. Perhaps that is why we have convergences. We have to respond to requests. We can play Lotto, games of chance, but we don't play with the health of patients. I'm not accusing you of anything. I simply draw your attention to the fact that, when you take on high responsibilities, you must be able to ensure that these drugs are available to those who really need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u25	Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr Vanvelthoven; Mr
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u26	Minister, since December 2017, a protocol has been signed between the federal authority and the federated entities regarding cooperation between people from the patient/client environment and health care professionals outside a health care facility. This protocol should make it possible to change regulations in the light of the reality encountered on a daily basis by professionals on the ground. In this protocol, you committed yourself to preparing the necessary draft legislation to adapt the current exception to the illegal practice of nursing by the nearest caregiver. You were also committed to establishing a list of benefits that could not be delegated to non-health professionals. Minister, what is the status of the work now? Have you been able to draw up a list of acts that may or may not be delegated to non-health professionals? On what basis was this list drawn up? Who did you consult in this context? Will these projects still be possible under this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u27	Mr Frédéric, through the Memorandum of Understanding of 19 December 2017 on cooperation between people from the patient's environment and healthcare professionals, I have committed myself to preparing the necessary legislative amendments to enable people from the patient's environment to carry out certain nursing procedures in patients. This applies to teachers, educators, youth monitors and child care providers. Of course, this must be done, as for close caregivers, within a well-defined framework of quality. The physician or nurse must give authorization to perform one or more technical services in a particular patient. The physician or nurse must train the person in the patient's environment and a procedure or plan of care must be established. A document must be drawn up containing the identity of the patient and of the person who has received the authorisation, the authorised technical services, the duration of the authorisation and any additional conditions. The administration of the Public Health FPS has transposed the Memorandum of Understanding into a draft legislative amendment to amend Article 524 of the Law of 10 May 2015 on the Exercise of Health Professions relating to the Illegal Exercise of Nursing Art. This project was then submitted to the government, which considered that the project as proposed could not be continued, given the negative reactions from nursing occupational groups. They disagree with the fact that certain acts are performed in the patient and that nurses may delegate. They have too much work but do not agree with this measure! This includes a list of technical actions that a physician or nurse cannot delegate to a person in the patient's environment who has caused negative reactions in nurses. The list had been prepared in consultation with experts. In the meantime, we have received advice from three professional nurses' organizations. The ACN, NVKVV and KPVDB also disagree with each other with a view to further optimising this list. As a result of this notice, we have further adapted this bill. However, given the political circumstances, and to the extent that there is not yet agreement in the government on this bill, I do not think that this matter can be completed in this Parliament. I deeply regret it. We took too long to get the opinions on the ground. Secondly, all associations disagreed; they agreed that there was too much work, that this work was useful, but they did not agree on the list. This starts in all directions, as on the issue of overtime for close caregivers. One opinion was about eight hours and another about 1,280 hours. That list went all the way. I'm sorry. In schools, crèches, disabled people or elderly people, demand is high but it was a very difficult birth.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u28	Thank you for your answer. I also regret that no further progress can be made, but I understand the difficulties you have faced. Perhaps in another life, in a few weeks, will you be able to put the work back on the job?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u29	It's ready, but we'll have to wait until after the election.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament 28352, 28404 and 28452) by Mrs Muylle, 28436, 28514 and 28521 Mr Senesael's 28460 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 28450 is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u31	Madam Minister, like some colleagues, I have recently been asked by the Professional Union of Surgeons of Belgium (VBS-GBS) about the centralisation of pancreatic operations and the oesophagus. The Union has, moreover, repeatedly expressed its concern about the high operating quotas which should be set for these diseases in the future. Indeed, the transition to twenty operations per year would be within reach of only four to five hospitals for esophageal pathologies, and six to seven hospitals for pancreatic pathologies. On the basis of scientific literature, while there is no doubt for the Professional Union that it is necessary to centralize this type of surgery - in particular malignant pathology - it considers that this centralisation runs counter to reality. The project seems to be globalizing benign and malignant pathologies, while these complex interventions are radically different in nature. Minister, why not take into account the remarks made by the VBS-GBS during the discussions? What basic reasons do they justify the imposition of such centralisation? On the basis of what evidence do you believe that the quality of patient care will be revised upwards as a result of this centralization? Why not have made a distinction between benign and malignant pathologies? When will these quotas be applied? Is an evaluation of the measure planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u32	Mr Frédéric, thank you for your question. You refer to the letter from the Professional Union of Surgeons of Belgium on the concentration of complex pancreatic surgery and oesophageal surgery. In response to your question, I had to correct some of the remarks in the mail. The text of the Convention states very clearly in Article 5.2 that, as regards the quota of operations, there are two possibilities of accession for complex surgery of the esophagus: one hospital carries out at least twenty operations or two hospitals each perform at least ten operations in the same year after having concluded a cooperation agreement. For pancreatic surgery, a third possibility has been added: a hospital that performs at least ten procedures has entered into a cooperation agreement with two health-care institutions which have carried out together a total of at least twenty-two operations in the same year. The number of hospitals which can thus accede to the Convention on the Esophagus is estimated at about 10 hospitals, 5 in Flanders, 2 in Brussels and 3 in Wallonia for 510 esophagectomies, instead of 52 hospitals at present. The number of hospitals which can thus accede to the Pancreas Convention is estimated at about 14 hospitals, 9 of which in Flanders, 2 in Brussels and 3 in Wallonia, for 542 pancreatoduodectomyes, instead of 55 hospitals. In establishing the criteria, we have considered several factors. First, experts in pancreatic and esophagus surgery helped determine the criteria required to ensure quality for the patient. The threshold of 20 interventions is the absolute minimum for them to be able to guarantee quality care. Some asked for 40, but this would represent two centres in Belgium. It was impossible. The quality of care depends not only on the surgeon, but also on the full pre- and post-operative expertise. The concentration of surgery cannot lead to waiting lists. This is why the additional but temporary possibilities listed above are foreseen in order to make a smooth transition possible. From the directly available growth capacities of hospitals which now have to carry out at least 20 interventions per year, it appears that there would be a risk of not being able to carry out all the interventions – as we have said, 510 for the esophagus and 540 for the pancreas – only in these hospitals. This is why the membership criteria have been changed so that two hospitals, with a minimum of 10 interventions per year, can also join. However, it is important that they carry out all interventions in a single hospital from 1 January 2020. Optimal geographical distribution is needed between hospitals that adhere to this Convention. There is a third possibility of accession to the Pancreas Convention, i.e. a hospital with more than ten interventions that joins two other hospitals, for a total of 22 interventions in the same year. Here too, centralisation must take place before 1 January 2020. As already stated in the first point mentioned, the complexity of this treatment lies not only in the surgical procedure itself, but also in the complete pre- and post-operative expertise available, in order to recognise, among other things, the warning signals very quickly. This also avoids new difficult interventions and also applies to heavy interventions in cases of benign pathologies. During the discussions on the drafting of the conventions, the figures of the Cancer Register concerning mortality within 30 days and 90 days in Belgian hospitals were commented on several times. This information is based on Belgian figures up to and including the year 2015. The analysis clearly showed that high-volume centres (i.e. at least 20 interventions per year) had much better results than those with lower levels of information. We also report that the Cancer Registry presented results at the International Congress of the European Society for Medical Oncology in October 2018 in Munich, Germany. In addition, the KC draws the same conclusions in its reports and its recommendations are followed by the Intermutualism Agency and mutualities, patient associations and the Foundation against Cancer. The conventions provide for close monitoring of quality and volume through the recording and results of process indicators. All these data are monitored transparently in annual reports and improvement plans. The results will also be published on the INAMI website. Article 8 of the Convention specifies the content of the final assessment. By November 1, 2021, an interim report will also be submitted to the insurance committees. In addition, it is planned that hospitals will also be subject to an audit, which will be validated by international experts. The two conventions were unanimously approved by the national medical-mutualist commission and the committee of convention with the care institutions also gave its approval. Hospitals can apply until March 31, 2019. Individual agreements will enter into force no later than July 1, 2019. A transitional period is also foreseen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u33	I thank the minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 28533 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u35	Madam Chair, Minister, this is a recurring issue. After imposing an access filter on the Wallonia-Brussels Federation for medical and dentistry studies, you decided on an additional lock at the end of the training this time. To access the internship and get its INAMI number, the student will have to have what you call a "quota certificate". That, in order to comply with the famous quotas that you have set in a totally arbitrary manner. I should like to recall the Council of State's scathing opinion in this regard, which speaks of an incoherent system which may lead to a reduction in the medical supply in relation to the needs of the inhabitants. Your policy, as we keep repeating, in this regard in any case, will have disastrous consequences for the students who have passed six years of study and who will not be able to practice medicine. But there will also be disastrous consequences for patients, especially for French-speaking patients in the country who will find it more difficult to obtain treatment. Minister, I have made some adjustments to my questions, given that, since my question was tabled, the competition aspect with foreign doctors has been addressed in our discussions. My questions, therefore, are summarized as follows. The shortage is already a reality in six out of ten municipalities in Wallonia and Brussels. You indicated that an extraordinary Interdepartmental Conference (IMC) Public Health was held on February 11 in the presence of the Chair of the INAMI Medical Supply Planning Commission in order to find a solution to the problem of the quota of future physicians. Could this ICD be held and what are its conclusions? Do you really intend to implement quota certificates without providing a comprehensive solution to the proven shortage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u36	Madam President, since several questions on this subject were on the agenda, I have a reply in French and Dutch. Mr Frédéric, a memorandum of understanding on the quota was on the agenda of the ICD on 28 January. Comments were then made by the Walloon Region and the French Community on the methodology on the basis of which it had been decided to impose quotas for applicants in dentistry and medicine. There was a misunderstanding. It was not clear what the Planning Commission was taking into account and what variables could change in the coming years. That is why we planned, together, a thematic ICD, on 11 February. During the meeting, the Chairperson of the Planning Commission provided all the explanations and answered questions about the methodology and the variables to be taken into account, which could already be deduced from the possibilities of evolution for the coming years. Following this thematic ICD, the Ministers of the federated entities expressed the wish to continue negotiations with a view to concluding a Memorandum of Understanding. There was an open mind to the creation of a system of quotas and planning for doctors and dentists, which could evolve and be improved. We have decided to add a preamble. It aims to make possible a memorandum of understanding with the aim of opening up the possibility of creating a quota of doctors and dentists in the future, taking into account the situation on the ground. The protocol agreement was linked to this commitment between the signatory partners, namely the Minister of Health and both Community Ministers responsible for Higher Education. The aim is to be able to sign the protocol at the March ICD. As I have repeated on several occasions, the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding is only one of the elements of the political agreement that has been concluded in the INAMI issue file. As you know, all the elements of this agreement are inextricably interlinked. From the beginning, I have sought a lasting solution to give students in the course of their studies the guarantee of obtaining their INAMI number, but also to ensure that the quotas are respected by the Member States in the future (more specifically by 2025). The problem in both Communities, namely the shortage of general practitioners, was also raised. Subquotas have been recorded for many years in the Flemish Community, and this is now also the case in the French Community. We also see a lack of geriatricians, which indicates that quotas are not being met. Clearly, young people are not attracted to the professions of geriatricians, child psychiatrists or psychiatrists, to name but a few. On the other hand, there are plethora of students in other specializations. I hope to be able to count on the guarantee and commitment of both Communities, but also of the governments, because the ministers must always obtain the approval of their respective governments. This is a sensitive issue on both the Flemish and Francophone sides. I am committed to finding a lasting solution, but also to remedying this uncertainty that has prevailed for more than five years now when I took up my post. At that time, we were talking about the shortage of INAMI numbers, positive smoothing, etc. As I've always said, students are not guilty. They are victims of political decisions that have been taken. They are halfway through an important and costly cycle of study for themselves and their families. They made a commitment to become doctors. This must be possible, but for the years to come, a lasting solution must be found. That is what we are working on with the assistance of the Planning Commission. It's a unique system. Our neighbouring countries observe us to see how we function with all the variables that exist. Every three years, an evaluation takes place to see what has changed in the field. The reality is taken into account throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I think it should be welcomed, of course, in a moderate way, that the consultation with the federated entities has resumed force and vigour, with a willingness to calm down in the debate in order to try to address the real problems which are, on the one hand, the students in process who are concerned about whether or not they will be able to obtain an INAMI number and, on the other hand, the daily reality of the lack of a number of practitioners in the field, particularly in rural areas. I do not even add "on the francophone side" since you have just made it clear that the problem is also in the north of the country. You have indicated that an interdepartmental conference will be held very soon, again in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u38	I think it will take place on March 23 or 25, 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u39	Madam Minister, we will therefore come back to you to follow with great interest the agreements that have been reached at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u40	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael 28608 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u41	Madam Minister, we have all been able to read about the complaints regarding simultaneous anesthetics in the West AZ van Veurne, where anesthetists use multiple anesthetics simultaneously, leaving their patients alone. By doing three anesthetics at the same time, they can also pass the cash register three times. This is evident from a number of complaints at the RIZIV. Originally, the hospital management referred to the Flemish Health Inspectorate, which had not established anything abnormal, but after internal investigation the management admitted that there were simultaneous anesthetics. This is, of course, against the rules and is also dangerous for patients, in some cases even life-threatening. Such practices are unworthy of a hospital. In addition, social security is being scammed as a result of the unfairly requested fees. In the meantime, we were able to read that the hospital is applying some new rules, which will be closely monitored by the inspection. Madam Secretary, how were the complaints dealt with? What exactly were the consequences given to it, in addition to the fact that new rules apply in the press? Will the multiple and wrongly received fees be recovered? Can controls and audits be improved in a structural way to identify such abuses? Will the Federal Hospital Services Council update the relevant directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, I am not sure what the negative opinion of the Council of State is about? What aspect are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u43	If benefits are wrongly charged, they may be charged. Something went wrong in that regard. There was a formal error in the sense that the urgency would not have been sufficiently proven. It wasn't established until a long time later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u44	So, there's no chance of recovery?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u45	Perhaps that will be the difficulty. It is important, however, that the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has other means to act, especially with regard to the doctors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u46	Madam Minister, a study carried out by two former VUB students shows that doctors and dietists accept money to promote food supplements. People who want to have a stomach reduction should take such supplements and they should continue to take vitamins even after the procedure. Most of these supplements are freely available on the internet. In a company in Lennik, patients apparently need a code to order. That code is delivered to them by their doctor. The study shows that doctors and dietists receive 20% of the total amount spent at that company. This is, of course, contrary to the deontological code of the Order of Doctors. Frankly, Madam Secretary, I still hope that this is a quack. However, you indicated that you were taking this matter seriously. Has there been an investigation in the meantime? Is this a story? If so, what are the consequences? What measures will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u47	Mrs Jiroflée, there is an investigation into these practices with food supplements. A check by the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain seems to me appropriate. The registration status can be checked. As you know, I am not responsible for this agency. I must therefore refer you to my colleague for the results. As regards the substance of the case, the 2015 law on the exercise of the healthcare professions prohibits in Article 38 (2) that a doctor obtains, directly or indirectly, profits or benefits from an agreement relating to his profession, as well as that a doctor accepts premiums or benefits. An infringement of this prohibition shall be sanctioned by the penalties provided for in Article 122, § 1 of the aforementioned law. I quote: 'Without prejudice to the application of the penalties imposed by the Criminal Code and, where appropriate, the application of disciplinary measures, a fine of EUR 26 to 500 will be punished, the practitioner of medicine or medical preparation who violates the provisions of Article 38 (2) '. There is therefore a proper criminal sanction. Public health services may give effect to their findings to the public prosecutor's office. In the case of dietists, there is no such legal prohibition, but the manner of action described cannot, of course, be accepted deontologically. That's a definite fact. In the case of doctors, the Order of Doctors may be taken into consideration for a disciplinary investigation. However, it must first be established, then one can go to the Order of Doctors. For the dietists it is therefore not deontological at all. There will also have to be action there. It has already been said that this simply cannot be done. I am sometimes surprised at the way in which some people manage to develop a process that is totally out of control and that is totally unacceptable. They are also used by crooked companies. I don't understand. There is the offer and there is acceptance, and that is deontologically completely contrary to the profession. I am also convinced that not everyone is involved, but it is about people who do a great deal of harm to the profession, the honour and the dignity of the profession, especially with regard to patients. It's about a lifetime of treatment, so it's just cashing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u48	Madam Secretary, I share your surprise. I was hoping it would be a quack, but apparently there are rotten apples in every basket.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u49	Question No 28715 by Mr de Lamotte and No 3 by Mr De Lamotte 28831 by Mrs Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u50	Minister, as we know, the Bioethics Advisory Committee provides advice on ethical issues in biology, medicine and health care. The Advisory Committee may do so on its own initiative or at the request of legislative assemblies, a member of government, a scientific institution or an ethical committee. Its role is therefore fundamental. Minister, the current fifth term of the Bioethics Advisory Committee ended in September 2018. Since then, his work has been suspended for lack of appointment of its members by royal decree. The Council of Ministers of 22 October 2018 had nevertheless approved a draft royal decree appointing members for the sixth term. What about this order? When can it be published? When will the Committee be able to resume its work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u51	Mr Frédéric, the part concerning the appointment of the members of the Advisory Committee of Bioethics by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers is fully finalised, with the exception of the publication in the Belgian Moniteur. The dossier concerning the members to be appointed by the King and my representative having an advisory vote is also fully finalized, with the exception of publication in the Belgian Monitor. The objective will be to publish the three decrees simultaneously, after which the sixth mandate of the Bioethics Advisory Committee can begin in May of this year. The simultaneous publication and entry into force of the decrees are desirable in order to ensure as far as possible the fragile balance between the various convictions. The administration concerned, i.e. the secretariat of the Advisory Committee, had been instructed to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u53	Madam Minister, on 22 January 2019, a motion for a resolution on the recognition and regulation of the exercise of osteopathy in the Committee on Health was voted on. However, this was not a proposal on the recognition of holistic osteopathy, but on evidence-based osteopathy, with close cooperation with general practitioners and a strengthening of training in colleges and universities. Unfortunately, this has been voted down. Just a month later, health economist Lieven Annemans came out with a study that shows that osteopathic treatment of low back pain is effective and cost-effective, with an analysis of scientific literature and a comparison in patient groups with a course of medicine, exercise or kinesitherapeutic treatment with a significant, statistically relevant better result in the osteopathic treatment group. Annemans also made an economic calculation in which it was concluded that it would save money if the government repaid osteopathic treatment of low back pain. Madam Secretary, do you share the conclusions of this investigation? Does this research change your view on whether or not to repay osteopathy? You are in favour of an evence-based policy. Is it not possible to take a legislative initiative on this issue in this House? I know it's too late now, but my question dates back some time ago and was topical at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u54	Mrs Dedry, the discussion we are having is not new, because it was discussed at the previous elections. When I was appointed, I immediately started to do so, because it was indeed my goal to get osteopathy repaid. Before we can decide on reimbursement, a quality framework for the exercise of neuro-musculoskeletal osteopathy must be established. In this respect, a proposal was drawn up, but no support could be given to the profession concerned, since the professionals did not agree with the quality framework. A discussion also took place on direct access or referral. The debate on reimbursement is therefore still far away, as there has to be a quality framework first. During the hearing, most speakers pointed out that there was insufficient difference between manual therapy, as exercised by a kinesitherapist, and evidence-based neuro-musculo-skeletal osteopathy. Both professions interpret this in a different way, which does not facilitate this either. Currently there is an evidence-based project related to low back pain. The objective is to implement in practice the recommendation of the Knowledge Centre study on low back pain and radicular pain of 2017. This project is being developed by Domus Medica, which collaborates with various organisations, including osteopaths and chiropractors. Perhaps we can get more inspiration from this pilot project and reach a consensus between the different professions, which has not always been easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u55	Madam Minister, it is a very old fact that it is difficult to find consensus within this profession and also in other non-classical medicine, given all the different schools. To be continued, no doubt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u56	Debates of the European Parliament 28902 by Mrs Ben Hamou has been converted into a written question. We have not heard from Mrs Fernandez Fernandez about her question No. 28904. Mr Vanden Burre is on his way to our committee meeting for his question No. 28914. Debates of the European Parliament Mr de Lamotte converted 29009 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schlitz' 29036 has been converted into a written question. We have not heard from Mr Delizée about his question No. 29037. We have not heard from Mr Van Hees about his question No. 29055.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u57	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the IFIC-baremas in home care. You know that one of our stickhorses is that we advocate better working conditions for nurses, especially for home care. After all, the fees paid by home nurses are very low, which you have also recognised. For some time now, the new IFIC payable allowances have also been applied to self-employed home care. These involve an increase in wage costs for various self-employed home nursing practices. To finance these costs, the federal government decided to free 330 budgets through the social Maribel fund. These budgets are coordinated by the non-profit organisation FeBi. In the meantime, the IFIC payable masts have been introduced. However, I hear that the funding is waiting on the ground, which means a heavy financial burden for self-employed nursing. As you know, the fees are already too low, and now I have reports in the field that the amounts for wages must be advanced. So the water is much higher at home, almost on the lips. Are you aware of the problem? Why does it take so long before FeBi can match the additional costs of introducing the IFIC into the self-employed home care system? How much longer will this situation last? What steps will you take to resolve the problem as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u58	Madam President, Ms Van Camp, the federal government, on the basis of the social agreement of 25 October 2017, which it concluded with the social partners for the federal health institutions, has allocated a budget for the first phase of the roll-out of the IFIC wage model. That wage model is the result of negotiations within the 330 Joint Committee. The payment of the share of the budget for home nursing practice is made through the Social Maribel fund of the 330 Joint Committee, as opposed to the hospitals. The social partners, who have also asked the IFIC, are therefore responsible for paying out to the various entitled employers. I have informed you of the problem raised by the chairman of the 330 Joint Committee and the government Commissioner at the fund. So that's where the knot is. The money is there, but one has to do what is necessary there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u59	Then it is good, Madam Secretary, that you sent that memory. Hopefully that was the right way to get the funds paid. For self-employed nursing, this is finally a boost, but of course not if the measure is already in force but the resources are not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u60	I understand. It's a little bizarre. IFIC was the first demand in the social negotiations. Then the solution has indeed been found for the additional costs that would be incurred at home care. They have that in their hands, and I find it strange that they have not yet paid it, even though the measure is already in place. We will insist that this be done as quickly as possible in order not to cause any problems in home nursing practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u61	That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u62	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Camp's 29069 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 29070 by Mrs Van Camp will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u63	Minister, as part of the emergency medical assistance missions, emergency areas must ensure that ambulances are equipped with the equipment listed in the Ministerial Circular on the minimum contents of AMU vehicles, and that equipment is subject to regular monitoring, particularly for the expiry dates of consumables. It was customary for consumables used in transportation, as well as oxygen, to be replaced directly in the hospital in which the patient was being cared for. The ambulance could thus be operational when it left the hospital, without having to return to the post to be restocked. Moreover, this practice avoided a considerable additional cost, by allowing the relief zone to benefit from consumables controlled by the personnel of a trained and competent service in this field. Following the visit of the AFMPS to Epicura Hospital, a site in Ath, on 19 April 2018, a report was drawn up. The report states that, since the hospital is not a distributor, it does not have the necessary authorizations to deliver medicines and medical devices to the fire department. Epicura therefore stated that the hospital would end the resupply of consumables for ambulances in the Picardy Wallonia rescue zone from 1 September 2018. In addition, in the session of August 27, 2018, the zone commander of Picardy Wallonia brought to the attention of the Zone College the fact that you no longer tolerated that hospitals resupply ambulances with consumables in hospitals after the transport of patients. This is a twofold problem. The area will have to acquire consumables, which implies a financial cost and the carrying out of organisational steps such as the launch of a market, the management of stocks in compliance with the above-mentioned regulations, etc. The ambulance will no longer be directly operational as soon as it leaves the hospital, since it will first have to return to the barracks to be restocked. For some posts away from hospitals, it takes 30 to 45 minutes for an ambulance to return to barracks and restock. Minister, allow me to ask you the following questions. Don't you think that this measure involves a waste of time for ambulances that need to be restocked when it comes to emergency medical aid? Can solutions be found so that relief areas can ensure continuity of services to the population? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u64	Mr Delannois, AFMPS is competent for the supply of materials in ambulances and SMURs. In this case, they decided for safety reasons that the hospital pharmacy did not have to make available the equipment for the ambulances even though it was used for a patient who was hospitalized. I do not know how to find a solution, but this is the case across the country, apparently for security reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u65	Knowing you more pragmatic, I would have hoped to have a solution or at least a commitment from you to find one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u66	The question has again been asked of the AFMPS for further details and so far we have not received a response from them. If this answer comes to us, I'll transfer it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u67	It seems to me that pressure must be exerted, because the situation is surreal: it costs more to rescue areas and communes, there is a waste of time for ambulances, which can lead to an increase in the risks to patients. This worked well in a whole series of hospitals and since this famous report, we can no longer continue with a formula that worked very well for everyone. It seems to me that political power must, at some point, be able to find solutions that, in this case, are beneficial to all: the emergency areas, the patient, the transporter by ambulance... This system is surreal to Belgian! Creativity should be shown.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u68	Madam President, I brought 51 questions and answers. Two thirds of them were not claimed. More questions have been translated into written questions. If no one is present here anymore, I am sorry to say that this committee should dissolve itself. I have seen five Members here: Mr Senesael, Mr Frédéric, Mr Delannois, Mrs Jiroflée and Mrs Van Camp. With yourself included, there are six. Very many of the questions asked were grouped together. Sometimes there were five people who had additional questions on the same subject, but were not present. I have also answered those questions, but I think it has been drawn from her, taking into account all the work done by all the administrations and my cabinet. I really want to protest that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u69	Madam President, Madam Minister, I shall echo this aspect tomorrow in the Conference of Presidents. Last week we discussed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure the problem which I would call "diarrhoea of questions", in which everyone considers their question important but does not find it useful to come and ask it. There are rules to be respected in this Parliament. From my memory, when I was presiding, there was no excuse, the question was automatically removed if it was not the honour of being present, at the time of asking his question, and without the grievor calling. Civil servants are not luxury secretaries. Each member of Parliament has his or her collaborators, it is enough to send them or to be present. I therefore propose to delete the question of all those who were not present, regardless of their party, and who were not excused (one can, in fact, have a valid reason to be absent, such as a medical reason, as is the case with Mr Blanchart).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u70	This is another case in point. We still have a list of 50 to 60 questions that are prepared and updated when they are a little too old.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u71	A text was also tabled to amend the rules and to encourage written questions as much as possible. Madam President, I have one more question to ask the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u72	I still have to answer Mr. Frédéric's question No. 29100 on the tariff agreement for dentists, but that is the last one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u73	This morning it was much worse. The whole morning was intended to discuss priority legislative proposals, but at the time of counting I did not go beyond seven Members, including myself. I waited until 10.40 a.m., but we did not reach the quorum of nine Members.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u74	Madam President, I imagine colleagues have very important things to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u75	They're in the country, I think!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u76	I myself had to complete the number of members in the Finance Committee. I intervened in the Justice Commission, participated in the hearing on Jehovah's Witnesses at noon, and I am here this afternoon. I think that is normal, but obviously not many of us think so. In terms of staff, that's not very correct either. Mobilizing so many people for so little, that's anything, be it the staff of your administrations or the House! May I ask my question before the minister gets angry and leaves?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u77	I wanted to say it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u78	We think the same thing, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u79	I share your opinion. Even when I was not chairman, I was always here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u80	Minister, ensuring patient tariff security is fundamental. Yet, today, this tariff security is again in danger. The amendment to the 2017-2018 National Dento-mutualist Agreement was published in the Belgian Monitor on 29 January 2019. The text was submitted to dental practitioners for accession. They had 30 days to decide, until 28 February. To come into force, this amendment must, as we know, be endorsed by more than 60% of dental practitioners. In recent years, however, we have seen a worrying increase in the rate of deconcentration among dentists. While they were 27.84 per cent in 2005-2006, they increased to 38.63 per cent in 2017-18, a rate close to the 40 per cent rejection threshold beyond which the tariff agreement no longer applies. In this case, the situation would be extremely worrying, since it would mean that the rates for dental care would be free. Again and again, patients would be penalized as they would have to pay more for their visits and consultations with the dentist without being better reimbursed. Minister, could you give us the results of the accession procedure? On this basis, what are the implications for the entry into force of the Agreement in the different regions of the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u81	Mr Frédéric, thank you for your question and for your presence. The endorsement to the 2017-2018 National Dento-mutualist Agreement was published in the Belgian Monitor on January 29, 2019, as you said. Dental practitioners have had 30 days to indicate their membership or refusal to join this amendment. The National Dento-mutualist Commission took note of these figures on 7 March. Indeed, the rate of deconvention at the level of the kingdom is problematic. That is why, in consultation with the National Dento-Mutualist Commission, we are looking for solutions to bring the amendment into force. The National Dento-mutualist Commission was therefore invited to reassess the situation before the end of May on the basis of the number of dentists who returned on their refusal to join. It is noted that the rejection rate is not the same across our country. These are mainly known areas such as the province of Antwerp and certain areas in Flanders. Pending the re-evaluation of the refusal rate by the end of May, those who have already joined are invited to respect the tariff set out in the 2019 amendment. It is true that it has been increasing for years. The shortage of dentists also plays on the fact that they think they are free to ask for sometimes exorbitant prices. I don't have the percentages with me but the numbers are problematic in some areas, like Antwerp in the past. When there is a balance between those who join and those who refuse, accessibility is sufficient for the patient. Otherwise, the situation becomes problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u83	They're looking for solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u84	In any case, we will remain attentive to this crucial issue in terms of access to health care for as many people as possible. It is indeed dramatic!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-19-54-commissie-ic1059x.u85	Mr Vanden Burre is not here; his question No. 28914 is not being treated.
