ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u1	Minister, on 28 June 2019, after years of negotiations, a trade agreement was concluded between the EU and the Mercosur countries, namely Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay, as part of a wider association agreement. Since this is a mixed association agreement, it must of course go through both the European and the national approval procedures. The economic importance of this agreement is great, but the agricultural organisations in Belgium are concerned because there is a risk that this trade agreement will put pressure on the European agricultural model because of the large difference between the agricultural model, standards and standards. The import of beef and veal, 60 000 tonnes at 7.5% and 99 000 tonnes exempt from levies, and the import of 180,000 tonnes of chicken meat, give cause for concern, especially as regards the quality of the meat offered. According to the Walloon Agricultural Federation, during a discussion on 11 July 2019, representatives of the Prime Minister would have indicated that they agree with the agricultural organisations on certain points and that they are seeking allies at European level to discuss the health and environmental problems linked to this agreement. I come to my questions. Do you think that the texts of the negotiated trade agreement contain adequate protection measures for the European and Belgian agricultural model? If so, which one? The BFSA carries out its audits on the basis of the comprehensive and highly harmonised European regulations. To what extent will future larger imports of meat products from Mercosur countries have an impact on the BFSA controls, given the quality of the meat offered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u2	Mr Gilissen, let me be very clear, I do not think that this agreement contains sufficient guarantees today, either for the health of consumers or for respect for international commitments in the field of climate, or for the protection of our family farming. That's my personal point of view. It will, of course, be up to Members to decide on this issue at the various meetings, and to the next federal government to determine the policies it will defend when the treaty will be ratified. Taking into account the concerns in Belgium about this agreement, I have taken a series of steps to defend the interests of our farmers and our consumers. I met Commissioner Hogan in particular on 15 July 2019 and discussed with him the legitimate concerns of Belgian farmers. I also mentioned this during my interventions at the European Agriculture Council in June and July 2019. In addition, at the end of July, I sent a letter to the European Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, Vyteris Andriukaitis, to EFSA and to the Agriculture Ministers of France, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg. I have expressed my concern at the fact that the Mercosur countries, particularly Brazil, are allowing numerous pesticides which are banned here by the Union. The maximum residue limits for pesticides in these countries are also clearly much higher than in Europe. A EFSA report underlines the risk of cocktail effects of these pesticides. I therefore repeat that it is absolutely necessary for the Commission to clarify how it intends to strengthen consumer safety in relation to the risks that certain products could cause. I also reiterated the importance of applying the European sanitary rules strictly to Mercosur's products. In addition, I asked that the precautionary principle contained in the agreement be used quickly and flexibly in the assumption that a potential risk to the health of European consumers would be detected. Finally, the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Hogan, has confirmed that the European Commission has committed itself to making a fund of EUR 1 billion exclusively available to the agricultural sectors of the Member States affected by Mercosur. Nothing in the agreement changes the way the EU develops and applies its sanitary standard, in particular in GMOs and maximum residue limits of pesticides. Mercosur's food that does not comply with our standards will be destroyed at European border control posts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, which reassures me. I am pleased to hear that you are also concerned about the Mercosur agreement and in particular about the quality, possible pesticides and contamination of meat that may be imported. In addition, the livestock sector in Belgium is subject to price pressure. Imports of cheap meat from abroad, particularly from Mercosur countries, only increase price pressure. Diseases such as bluetongue, chicken virus and swine fever put pressure on our Belgian meat products. Quality control is therefore very important. From messages I read, I noted that up to 20% of chicken meat may be infected with salmonella. It's important to keep an eye on that. Like everyone else, I'd rather eat chicken hawaii or chicken curry than chicken salmonella. I am therefore pleased that you will be keeping a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u4	Minister, my question dates back to June and may be somewhat out of date, but I think it is important to get an overview of the situation. A few months ago, the low pathogenic H3 virus plagued our poultry sector. The number of infected holdings had increased considerably. Several poultry holdings were therefore disposed of in the past period. However, we had to wait for the European Union to entrust the BFSA with a coordinated fight against the H3 virus. Since avian influenza is not a disease subject to control and there are no mandatory measures, Europe has long regarded the disease as an economic problem. As a result, the Sanitary Fund was not allowed to be used to compensate for the value of the animals in the disposal of holdings. Thanks to your commitment, Minister, and that of your then Flemish colleague, Flemish Minister for Agriculture Koen Van den Heuvel, the EU has given the green light for a coordinated fight and compensation. The Royal Decree of 4 July 2019 on the control of H3 influenza in poultry provides for that compensation scheme. Unfortunately, the compensation appears to apply only to those poultry farms where the animals were still present on the day of the publication of the Royal Decree of 11 July. However, many poultry farmers who understood the seriousness of the situation and had already eliminated their farms on their own initiative in good faith and in order to protect the sector, in order to control the spread of disease, have suffered. I have the following questions. How many poultry holdings were infected with the H3 virus this year? How many of those infections were detected before 11 July 2019? How many of the infected poultry farms were then disposed of? How many companies were cleared before 11 July 2019? What measures will you take to compensate the companies which were cleared before 11 July? Will the compensation scheme be made retrospective or do you intend to support those poultry farmers in any other way, since they have acted in good faith and in order to protect the sector? It would be good to get a general update of the situation. I had already submitted this question in July. So I'd like to get an update.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u5	Mr Minister, since the beginning of April 2019 about 60 poultry farms in West Flanders have been affected by the influenza virus type H3, as well as two farms in Wallonia. In May, in order to reduce the spread of this virus, you signed two ministerial decisions to strengthen the biosecurity measures in farms. You stressed at that time that the poultry farmers concerned would be reimbursed. In your opinion, the consultation with European Commissioner for Agriculture Hogan on Tuesday 11 June 2019 opened an agreement in principle on a fee. This was implemented by the Royal Decree of 4 July 2019. However, this does not provide a solution for those companies which organised a clearance before the date of publication of the Royal Decree of 11 July 2019. You requested an analysis from the federal administrations involved to determine the causes why the virus appears and spreads. You also asked the relevant federal administrations, namely the BFSA, Sciensano and the DG Animal, Plant and Nutrition of the Public Health Office, to ensure that this report is followed up with the sector, in particular to adapt the existing measures if necessary and to further strengthen the protection of animal health within the farms. Minister, what solutions do you offer for those companies which cleared up before the date of publication of the Royal Decree? What is the state of affairs regarding the analysis you requested to determine the causes why the virus appears and spreads? What is the state of play regarding the follow-up of the report with the sector by the federal administrations involved? Does this report show that it is necessary or was necessary to adapt the existing measures and to further strengthen the protection of animal health within the holdings?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u6	Mrs Dierick, Mr Gilissen, animal diseases can be real plagues for our farmers. I've met several poultry farmers in the last few months. I know that this epidemic has catastrophic consequences for many of them. The H3 influenza virus was established in April-July 2019 at 82 commercial poultry holdings. There haven't been any contamination since July 19th. This proves that the action taken in the field of bio-safety has paid off. The slaughter order of 11 July 2019 envisaged a total of 25 holdings. The 57 other companies had been cleared by the operators on their own initiative. The issue of licences to operators was far from acquired. As you say, Mrs Dierick, this virus has not been recognised by the OIE, the World Organisation for Animal Health. The European Commission's first response to our demand for compensation was therefore negative. I then had several contacts with Commissioner Hogan to look at other legal options and unblock the situation. These contacts have made it possible to obtain the green light from the European Commission, but this authorisation was not valid for operators who had already carried out the slaughter of their herds. The remuneration decision was published on 8 October 2019. Together with the regional ministers, I have tried several times to obtain the retroactivity of these measures. Unfortunately, the committee has confirmed to us that such funding would be contrary to a European condemnation of state aid. On the other hand, European law allows aid to be granted for the period of vacancy from the decision on the slaughter order to the repopulation of the stables. As you know, these measures fall within the exclusive competence of the regions. Indeed, I have agreed with the sector that after the eradication of the H3 virus, a more global reflection should be carried out to identify the causes for the emergence and spread of specific diseases in the poultry sector. This study will allow, where appropriate, additional appropriate measures to be taken. More than two million poultry had to be slaughtered in the last five years for sanitary reasons. Two million, that's way too much. Sciensano is currently working with the BFSA on an epidemiological study. I will certainly come back to you when I have the results of this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u7	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. It is a difficult situation: the people who have acted as a precaution to prevent the disease from spreading even further are at the expense of European regulation. I appreciate the effort you have made to continue to press the European Commission for the green light to apply the compensation scheme, as well as the need to apply it retroactively. Unfortunately, the answer was negative. I am glad that you say that there should be a more global approach so that those who take their responsibilities preventively would not suffer any more. We look forward to the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u8	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I agree with Mrs Dierick. It is very important to follow up on how this virus ended up in poultry farming and where it came from. Of course, it is very unfortunate that no compensation can be provided for those companies which were cleared up before 11 July. As I said in my previous question, the entire livestock sector in Belgium is under pressure, certainly due to cheap imports from abroad. Our companies need all the support they can get.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u9	Mr President, since this subject is being discussed, I would like to remind you of a written question I tabled on 5 July, four months ago, on the same subject. I do not know if it fell somewhere between the folds, but I will certainly retable them as an oral question. Maybe you could take a look at where she left off?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u10	Will you retable them as oral or written questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u11	Can we do that again as a written question? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u12	Mr President, it has nothing to do with this subject, but I am also waiting for an answer to a question from 23 July. So I don't think it's one question that slipped away somewhere, but that waiting for answers to written questions is more of a structural problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u13	Mr President, I also have a written question which has not yet been answered. It dates from 31 July and concerns the reputation study of the AFSCA. I guess a lot of questions were lost in the summer. For me, this issue remains relevant. I don't know what to do. Is resubmitting or questioning the Minister sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u14	We checked the rules. It makes it possible to turn an oral question into a written question but not a written question into an oral question. The only solution, when the deadline is exceeded, is to reintroduce the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u15	If there's any delay, please excuse me. We're trying to do it as soon as possible. I have to tell you that sometimes the questions are so thorough that it takes a little time for the administration. Here, there was summer and some took their holidays. We'll take stock of the issues you're talking about. With regard to the AFSCA audits, I think there was a willingness in the head of the committee to hold a meeting on this subject. I am open to this proposal to take stock of what has already been implemented on the basis of the audit recommendations, what is in progress and what will have to be done, bearing in mind that certain measures can only be taken under a full-fledged government. Mr President, I am at the disposal of the committee if it decides to take stock. I will then try to ask the AFSCA to be present and make a projection so that it is as detailed and clear as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u16	This had already been communicated in the order of business. With my group, we are still looking for a discussion on the AFSCA audit work. It was also known that the Minister was willing to come with the recommendations and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u17	I take note of this on the order of business of our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u18	Minister, my prepared text dates from August 2019. So some of the questions in it may already be somewhat outdated. Nevertheless, I'd like to get an update. During a check by the BFSA, the company E.K.E. a slight exceedance of the standard of dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs in bio-eggs. On 30 July 2019, in consultation with the BFSA, the company decided to withdraw the eggs from the sale and recall the eggs sold from the consumer. The BFSA has taken samples from the chicken food. For now, the chicken farm remains that eggs to the company E.K.E. Delivered, blocked. I don't know what the situation is like right now. So I'd like to get more information about that. An investigation has also been started to determine the cause of the infection. Firstly, according to the chicken farmer, the same feed has been given for 20 years and the chickens are walking on the same ground. How did the contamination occur? What's the status of the investigation? Are the results available yet? If so, what are the results? Secondly, as long as the holding was blocked, the eggs laid in the meantime could no longer be sold. There is also a possibility that all animals should be disposed of. Mr. Secretary, do you have an idea of the consequences for the company concerned? Is the company entitled to compensation if it appears that the contamination is due to an act by outsiders? Thirdly, the eggs were also distributed through several supermarkets, such as Delhaize and Carrefour. Dioxins and PCBs can have a carcinogenic effect. How many eggs were recalled? Has the consumer responded to the call? What are the possible consequences for consumers who might have eaten contaminated eggs? Fourthly, in November 2018, the BFSA established a breach of the PCB standard in another bioleghenn company. How often is a dioxin and PCBs contamination detected? How many samples has the BFSA analysed over the past five years on PCBs and dioxins? In how many cases was there a problem? I would like to have a general state of affairs in the dossier, so that we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u19	Mr President, Minister, I do not take up the information already provided by my colleague. Our questions are similar, although we may ask for some further clarification. Minister, how do you explain the difference in rates reported by AFSCA and RASFF (Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed)? The press informed us that the rates mentioned were not exactly the same. What is the result of the complementary AFSCA analyses? Have the AFSCA services identified the origin of this dioxin pollution? Have other farms been the victims of the same pollution? How many eggs have been contaminated? Of these, what percentage of contaminated eggs could be recalled? Were eggs used for processing? Could any processed products containing these eggs be identified and recalled? As far as the communication is concerned, what information has been provided to consumers by AFSCA on the dangerousness of the consumption of the eggs concerned and by what means? Unless we were wrong, there was no communication from the AFSCA after August 1, 2019. We have no evidence as to the origin of the communication. As the appropriate minister, do you consider this communication sufficient? What is envisaged or implemented to further improve this communication?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u20	Mrs Dierick, consumer safety is and remains the absolute priority of the BFSA. The agency informs me that the investigation to determine the cause of the infection, which is carried out in consultation with the regional services, is still ongoing. It has already made it possible to exclude contamination via the chicken feed. The regional OVAM service took additional soil samples because a limited increase in dioxin-like PCBs and indicator PCBs had been measured. I will certainly come back to you as soon as I have the results of those analyses. As a precautionary measure, poultry were removed and all non-compliant eggs destroyed. In that case, the BFSA is not competent for the award of compensation; these are, in accordance with the legislation, the Regions, through economic interventions from the Animal Fund. As a result of this contamination, all fresh eggs from the producer in question, more than 75,000 eggs, were recalled. This recall was carried out by the company concerned under the control of the AFSCA. The Agency itself ensured the dissemination of information via its website, social networks and a press release relayed by the Belga agency. This press release explained the issues and potential risks to the consumer while providing the telephone number of the AFSCA contact point. So, in my opinion, the AFSCA has fully fulfilled its mission of communication. Some of the eggs have been processed and the AFSCA has also ensured that there is no risk from processed products. No excess of the legal standard was found in the finished products containing the eggs concerned. The eggs still in stock in the processing company in question have also been destroyed. In general, the adverse effects of dioxins and PCBs are long-term effects. This means, in practice, that high and repeated exposure over a long period of time is required for health to be put at risk. Dioxins can have adverse effects on the reproductive system, thyroid, cardiovascular system and immune system, and can generate, facilitate diseases such as type 2 diabetes and obesity. In this case, AFSCA tells me that the potential health consequences for consumers who have consumed contaminated eggs are extremely limited. This is due to the low duration of exposure and the low rate of exceedance. With respect to your question about the rate difference, Ms. de Laveleye, the AFSCA tells me that the two figures are correct. They vary depending on whether or not the margin of uncertainty of the measure is taken into account. Thus, the result was 8,502 pictograms, but the uncertainty rate was 15%. The corrected result was thus 7.26 pictograms. For PCBs, over the period from 2013 to 2016, the AFSCA did not find any exceedance of the maximum level in eggs. Exceedance was observed in organic eggs in 2017. Two exceedances were observed in 2018, including one in organic eggs. For dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs, the AFSCA did not observe any exceedance over the period from 2013 to 2018. During this period, AFSCA performed 599 dioxin and dioxin-like PCB analyses and 310 PCB analyses on eggs. The compliance rate was 100%. I would like to point out that, given what we have been through with the fipronil crisis, we probably have today the most controlled eggs in Europe. It is a guarantee of confidence for the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Your conclusion is that the sector is being closely monitored and that we can therefore also trust that it is going well. That gives us a bit of peace of mind. However, we must remain alert when there are signs that something may go wrong. We must then take appropriate action. It is not entirely clear to me whether the company is already working. When I submitted my question, the company concerned was still blocked. Is that still the case? The investigations are still ongoing. Is that where we're working again? I understand that OVAM is now investigating the soil. I'm assuming it's about the soil in the farm itself that the chickens are walking on. Maybe that's where elevated concentrations were found. You said you'd definitely come back to this later. Do you have any idea when those tests will be completed? When can we expect feedback from that? For the rest, you have answered all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u22	Minister, thank you for your accurate and comprehensive answers. You went back to the risks that dioxin and PCBs pose to our diet. Of course, having eaten a few eggs from this farm is not bad for health, but in Belgium we are faced with many sources of dioxin. Even if this episode is not conducive to harming our health, it remains problematic. Fortunately, tests are carried out in a systematic manner. In this case, it was a self-control of the company. It has been producing eggs for a long time and if contamination comes from the soil, there must have been some contaminated eggs before. We look forward with great interest to the results of the soil contamination tests and we appreciate your undertaking to transmit them to us as soon as they are in your possession. When do you think you'll have them? As far as communication is concerned, you say that there has been no breach, but we still find it difficult to obtain information. I'm not talking about a lack of transparency, but since August 1st, there has been no more communication on the AFSCA website. For the general public, it is suggested that this communication could be further improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u23	I'm a little tired of attacking AFSCA. I'm telling you frankly. I have mentioned to you all the elements of communication that have been produced. The recall took place. Information regarding the absence of health risks was provided. Everything's perfect, it's true. But I can assure you that enormous progress has been made in terms of communication by the AFSCA for the past two years. I support the assessment of the audits on which we will have this meeting that you can take a given case. Let's keep this file in memory and make a commitment to come back to it. As part of the audits, recommendations were made in relation to the AFSCA communication. Say what else you'd like. From my point of view, both from the consumer, from the operators, from the distribution, and from the impact on health, the information was produced on the AFSCA website, at the level of the general public via the dispatches that were made. I agree to hear you. I have been a parliamentarian for a long time and I know that there are a lot of ideas on parliamentary benches. If you have any suggestions to make in terms of communication, I take it. But in any case, tell me what more needs to be done in relation to what has already been done. I am listening to the contacts we have had. As far as the response to dioxin is concerned, I know that we are exposed in Belgium and elsewhere in Europe to a number of harmful products. That is also why we have, for example, ensured that we are as vigilant with regard to the measures we have taken with regard to pesticides or with regard to the maximum residual limits allowed to reduce this exposure. It is true that my answer is about eggs. However, at some point we could look at more cross-sectional exposures. Mrs Dierick, I come to your question about the company. As soon as the assessment has been made at the level of the contamination, it is necessary to see the operator produce the necessary improvements and cleanings as regards its infrastructure. Then a recheck is carried out and the green light is given at that time so that he can get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ducrame. I do remember the idea of a broader debate on AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak because the minister has said that we are "taping" on the AFSCA. That is not the case, and I thank you for the very detailed answer. We know that the AFSCA provides important work and we do not feel insecure in Belgium. However, in terms of communication, we believe that there is room for improvement. We say it very calmly. We know that it is not enough to have a magic wand, but there have been audits, as you said, and we will continue to work on the recommendations and remain vigilant. But we obviously don't "cut" on the AFSCA. We're only demanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u26	Thank you, ma'am, for that clarification. To work with them – I want to say "day and night", because I do – I have to tell you that these people even mobilize at night. There is a desire to improve the functioning and I thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u27	Before I move on to the next question, I have to correct a mistake about the written questions, because we were misinformed. We have audited the regulations in Rule 123, which deals with written questions with a response period of 20 working days. Article 123(5) provides as follows: if the answer fails to reach the President within the time limit laid down in paragraph 2, the question shall be published and at the request of the member immediately referred to the competent Standing Committee and dealt with as an oral question, in accordance with the provisions referred to in Article 127. Therefore, it is the opposite of what I said earlier. It is possible to convert, at the member's request, a written question to which no oral question has been answered. But we won't do it in session. If you have not had an answer to your question, then you have a choice: either you re-enter it into a written question or you turn it into an oral question and Mr Ducrame will answer it the next time he comes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u28	With this question, Minister, I would like to return to the fipronils scandal, which fortunately has been behind us for some time. My question was inspired by an article in the press of September 2, when ten suspects were referred to the correctional court in connection with the 2017 fipronils scandal. In 2017, it came to light that under the guise of a natural control agent for blood lice, a deliberate scam with false labels Fipronil entered the food chain. A Dutch company sold the products to Belgian poultry farmers, among others, through a Belgian intermediary. The product was also exported to Italy. Both the Netherlands and Belgium are conducting separate investigations in the file. The referral of the ten suspects fits in with the Belgian investigation. It should be noted that it took two years to find out that fipronil had entered the food chain. Minister, what lessons have you and the BFSA learned from the case? What measures have you taken to improve the detection of harmful and banned substances? How is the cooperation between the Belgian and Dutch food inspection now going? What measures have been taken here? It was not always smooth at the time. How does the export of Belgian eggs abroad proceed in the aftermath of the fipronils scandal? Has it recovered from the image damage caused by the late and confusing communication of the BFSA at the outbreak of the scandal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u29	Mrs Gijbels, the BFSA has handled the fipronil crisis well. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that Belgian eggs are certainly among the safest eggs in Europe today. The points of improvement included, first, crisis communication; second, internal crisis development; third, cooperation with stakeholders and other services; fourth, the tracing of food and raw materials and, fifth, laboratory analyses under crisis conditions as well as other operational aspects. In concrete terms, egg production is now subject to random checks so that we can be sure that these substances are not present. Possible abuses can be detected more quickly. The communication of the BFSA was modernised and made more performant. The National Investigation Unit (NOE) of the BFSA, which is responsible for investigating fraud and abuses in the food chain, has been strengthened with fourteen full-time equivalents. The operation and support was adapted and better structured. This service is now working more closely with the police and judicial services, as well as with the FAGG. Finally, with regard to the relationship with the Netherlands, concrete agreements have been reached on cooperation and the exchange of information. Shorter channels of communication have been used since then and regular consultations will now take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you have said, there is still room for improvement in the field of communication. During the listeria incident, we also noticed that the communication between the Netherlands and Belgium is not always smooth. I therefore hope that this will remain a point of attention. Today there are technologies available, which can certainly be improved in the communication field. I hope that, in view of the fact that Belgian and Flemish agriculture has suffered a lot of damage in recent times, this remains a focus of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u31	Question No 55000293C by Mr Daniel Senesael is postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u32	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns more specifically plant production from areas infested by African swine fever. In July, the AFSCA asked farmers in the swine fever-infested area (zone II) and the buffer zone (zone I) by mail – this is not a problem of information – that plant production from these areas could not be used or processed into pig feed. No less than 2,994 hectares would be affected. The AFSCA stated in a communiqué that the risk of contamination of harvested crops existed and that it was therefore essential to take the necessary measures to prevent the crops from the area concerned from being recovered from swine fever. The AFSCA's instructions were very precise, namely to favour on-farm storage, to increase the maximum amount of cereals on the farm and to contact the dealer to establish the procedure for the delivery of the grain. In addition, a system of declaration of honour was provided, stipulating the areas from which the cereals were derived. Mr Minister, without calling into question the precautionary principle, what scientific basis has led to this decision, which, you will agree, is another blow for some farmers who have already lost a great deal during the preventive slaughter of pigs? Is the AFSCA based on random on-site sample analyses? Is there a risk of cross-contamination at the trader level? If so, what measures have been put in place to prevent this potential contamination? What is the opinion of the European experts following the dossier? I understand that this question is extremely technical and thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u33	Mrs Thibaut, this dossier is indeed technical but also complicated from a human point of view. What has been experienced by farmers at the local level is hard. We have had to cut down 4000 pigs, in conjunction with the European authorities and the Walloon Region, to protect the six million pigs that live on Belgian territory today. Given the persistence of the virus, which can persist in nature for a very long time, farmers in the PPP-infected area are faced with very strict biosecurity measures, the aim of which is to avoid contamination by this virus in Belgian pig farms. In this case, in order to take these measures, the Agency has relied on various scientific opinions: those of the European Food Chain Safety Agency, EFSA, and of the independent scientific committee set up at AFSCA, thus a European base and a Belgian basis. On the one hand, the Committee stresses that feed produced in contaminated areas may indeed pose a risk given the resistance of the virus to the environment. On the other hand, the final risk of introducing PPP into pig holdings via feed from restricted zones 1 and 2 is "high". This has led AFSCA to take these measures, which are unfortunately indispensable. Two meetings were held on 12 July and 27 August 2019 with stakeholders, the Walloon administration and AFSCA. Everyone was able to learn about practical problems, solutions and prospects. For example, it is recommended not to feed pigs with fresh grass or cereals from a contaminated area, unless they have been treated for inactivation of the PPP virus or stored for at least 30 days before being given to pigs. So we found an opening track at that level. Faced with the risks of cross-contamination at the trader level, the Belgian Feed Association has drafted a hygiene protocol, validated by the AFSCA and entered into force on 14 September 2019. I can send you this complete protocol. The format of oral questions lends itself quite poorly to reading this type of document and I will therefore ask my office to forward it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u34	Minister, I thank you for your complete answers and for your empathy with the farmers and grain producers in this area. This protocol is gaining to be known because next year we will always be in this situation. I hear that there has been one way to evacuate grass and cereals and that processing is not a solution because there is a risk of introducing other inputs. The Walloon Region should be able to imagine compensation for farmers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u35	In this regard, you should be aware that we have ensured that all farmers at the federal level are compensated for the losses suffered. We did it through the Animal Health Fund. They were compensated in record time, and I wanted to. There has been compensation for the slaughter of pigs and Walloon measures have also been taken in favour of all producers in the area who have suffered the impact of African swine fever. I think the Walloon Region, Minister Borsus and probably Minister Tellier will continue the effort for the farmers. It would also be interesting to study the cases of farmers and producers who were not affected by the "porcs" component but by the "production" component. According to the information available to me, they are also supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u36	Mr Arens's question lapses, he is apologized for illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u37	Mr President, Minister, veterinarians are calling for a targeted and compulsory vaccination campaign against bluetongue. Early this year, the disease re-emerged in Wallonia. Bluetongue is also found in eastern France. This is the type 8, which is also harmful to the cattle sector. We fear that the disease will advance further to our country, the vets say. The unavailability and price of the vaccine make voluntary vaccination difficult. Bluetongue is a viral disease transmitted by mosquitoes. This is slightly less relevant in November, but this question was submitted at the end of August, when the risk was higher. The virus is harmful to ruminants such as sheep. Type 8 is also harmful to cattle and to a lesser extent to sheep and calves. In adult cattle, too, the virus can lead to death. Bluetongue, however, is harmless to humans. The government made the vaccine available once after the epidemic in 2016 and 2017, but that has not been the case since the end of 2018. Feeders who want to vaccinate must have the vaccine imported. That is expensive and the vaccine is not always available. Veterinarians warn of severe economic damage if bluetongue were around our region. In the event of an outbreak of bluetongue, many young animals can die. Furthermore, exports of beef and sheepmeat would also be limited, which would have a higher financial impact than the cost of a general vaccination. I have the following questions. Will a general vaccination be carried out to prevent the spread of the disease? What are you doing to ensure that the vaccine is available again in Belgium at a favourable price? Is there any provision for compensation for the damage suffered by farmers affected by an outbreak of the disease in their livestock?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u38	Mr Gilissen, after discovering the bluetongue virus serotype 8 in early 2019 in six cattle farms in the region of Paliseul, the entire Belgian territory was declared a regulated zone for the virus in March 2019. On 9 September 2019, a new asymptomatic case was confirmed in a cattle farm in Neufchâteau, following a detection test carried out for intra-Community exports. In view of the impact on Belgian farmers, I have been following the evolution of the situation on a permanent basis. In particular, I ensured that the vaccine would be available in sufficient quantities on the Belgian market. I also monitored the development of bilateral trade promotion agreements with our main trading partners, namely the Netherlands, Spain and Italy. In addition, all ruminants can be traded without restrictions to the zone where the serotype 8 is present, France, Switzerland, Cyprus and some parts of Germany. The vaccination of sensitive animals is not mandatory at the request of the sector but is strongly recommended by the BFSA because vaccination is the best form of prevention. At present, sufficient vaccines are available through the normal circuit for the distribution of veterinary medicinal products in Belgium. The Animal Health Fund does not intervene in the purchase of vaccines. There is no provision for aid for firms. In the current situation, as the whole country was considered to be a single zone for this disease, national trade is not subject to restrictions. That is, of course, also important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am pleased to hear that you have made the necessary efforts to ensure that the vaccine is sufficiently available in Belgium. After all, the fact that the vaccine was difficult to obtain caused concern. I am also pleased that you are constantly following the evolution of the spread of bluetongue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u40	Minister, a report by Pano, who sent out the VRT in October 2018, showed that meat is often found in the luggage of passengers at Zaventem airport, especially on flights from Africa. According to that report by Pano, Brussels could be a turntable in trade in the so-called bush meat or brousse meat, mostly from the African rainforest. Zaventem has a tradition of good air connections with the African continent. At Zaventem airport, a specific monitoring of imports of meat would be carried out once a month. In any case, the import of meat is prohibited, but of course it is illegal and punishable when it comes to meat from endangered species. In addition, illegal imports of meat, and certainly brousse meat, pose a potential risk to public health, as tropical viruses and parasites can travel with them. However, passengers caught smuggling meat would benefit from the rule without penalty, also because there is no control of the type of meat involved. According to the spokesperson of the FPS Public Health, who was asked for a response to the Panoreportage, a study on brousse meat was launched by the FPS Public Health in early 2017. The data from that study would be known by the end of 2018 and shared with the BFSA and with customs to serve as a basis for more targeted and stricter controls and punishment. Mr Minister, has this study been completed yet? If so, what is its content? If not, when can we expect this study? Are you prepared to discuss this study with Parliament? What measures have been taken in connection with the illegal import of brousse meat pending that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u41	Madam President, Minister, about ten days ago, the federal government announced a reinforcement of controls at ports and airports following the seizure of a bag containing bushmeat contaminated with African swine fever at Charleroi airport. At Brussels Airport, it is estimated that 40 to 60 tonnes of meat would be imported illegally each year. These facts remain worrying when it is known that a very small amount of infected meat can cause an epizootic African swine fever in forests and farms and that the only way to eradicate the disease is through the slaughter of infected or susceptible animals. We have, on the one hand, the entire Belgian pig farming sector under embargo and, on the other, an illegal entry of potentially infected meat via our airports. Mr Minister, in view of the exorbitant health risks, can an increase in control and prevention measures be implemented at Belgian airports, in consultation with the Belgocontrol and AFSCA authorities, in order to prevent the risk of contamination? What were the actual returns of Bacon operations to airport infrastructure? I should like to add a supplementary question: who found the name of this operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u42	Mrs Gijbels, the study to which you refer was requested by the Environment DG of the FPS Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. I therefore invite you to address my colleague, the Minister for the Environment. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the control of passenger baggage is primarily the responsibility of customs. I'm not doing anything! You understand. Customs shall carry out continuous checks on passengers' luggage. In concrete terms, all meat and meat products found in passengers' luggage are seized by customs and destroyed. In addition, reinforced controls are carried out twice a month at Brussels-National Airport. AFSCA is on the second line. It stands by customs, supports it and participates in its strengthened controls. In 2018, 25 Bacon actions were held (for bagging control). I don't know who chose that name, Mrs. Thibaut. I do not have an answer to that question, but I am wondering, like you, about this name. These actions were carried out at the four airports and resulted in the seizure of 1,118.2 kg of food, of which 483.87 kg of meat and meat products were then analysed by DNA to determine the origin of meat. Twelve kilos of products were finally classified as bushmeat. Between January and August 2019, 20 Bacon actions have already been carried out at the four airports, resulting in the seizure of 1 899.68 kilos of food, of which 678.53 kilos of products belonging to the category "meat and meat products". However, given the difficulty in determining the origin of meat and meat products, we do not yet have accurate data on the amount of bush meat seized in the first half of 2019. We are waiting for this information. I would like, through the National Investigation Unit of the AFSCA, to step up actions in this area, in order to prevent the entry of contaminated foodstuffs via other means of transport, whether they are boats or trucks. Following the study mentioned in your question, Mrs Gijbels, I first drew attention to the importance of paying particular attention to the increased checks on passengers' luggage following the outbreak of African swine fever. I have therefore also contacted, in this context, the Minister of the Environment responsible for DG Five, responsible for this matter, so that his services can participate more systematically in the enhanced control operations for the CITES aspect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u43	Minister, the problem may not be so great, but, as you yourself say, the powers are very fragmented across many services involved, namely customs, food safety, health and the environment, and that does not make matters any easier. I also understand that a colloquium will be organised at the beginning of December, where the results of the study will be presented. Here is the motto 'better late than never', because this performance comes about a year after the delivery of the study. In any case, I look forward to the results of the study and I look forward to seeing what impact it will have on tackling the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u44	Thank you for your answer. I do not have much to add, except that awareness-raising and prevention remain important upstream. Indeed, once the meat is on the territory, it may already be too late. Of course we have to take into account the means, but 20 actions in 2019, that's barely two a month. Such control seems slight to me when we know the health risks that this meat can subsequently cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u45	Just one more precision. Bacon actions are reinforced in relation to meat. Checks are already carried out on a daily basis to identify non-regulatory transfers. As far as Operation Bacon is concerned, reinforced controls are already being carried out and come in addition to the existing controls. This allows us to see that the strengthening action comes in addition to what already exists. On this question, I reply out of courtesy to Parliament, because I am not responsible on the front line in this matter. I want to be respectful of Parliament, but in this case it is DG 5, customs, AFSCA that are competent, as support services. As the issue is important, I have taken the initiative myself to raise awareness among colleagues working on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u46	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Dierick's 55000624C and 55000691C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u47	Minister, on Thursday, September 26, a spectacular fire took place in the Lubrizol factory in Rouen, where additives are made to enrich oils, fuels and industrial paints. A smoke plume 22 km long and 6 km wide cleared from the site, classified "high threshold" Seveso. Five or six hours after the first fumes were released, this cloud, potentially loaded with toxic dust, crossed Belgian territory. Many television reports have reported citizens complaining of residues in their gardens. The Wallonia Crisis Centre also advised, as a precautionary measure, to aerate homes, avoid contact with skin and wash locally produced fruits and vegetables. Belgian consumers and farmers are concerned about the health and environmental consequences of this fire. The FUGEA calls for a clear position by the AFSCA on the possible harmful effects on the Belgian side of the border. In France, the fire was described as a major disaster by the Prefect, Mr Durand. A prefectural decree prohibits the marketing of milk in 112 communes crossed by the toxic cloud. In addition, the prefecture announced the freezing of production and harvests pending health guarantees. In our case, on the contrary, little has been communicated. Minister, can you take a snapshot of the situation and make it transparent on the health consequences of the fire? Do the smokes that have passed through Belgium have a negative impact on the products of our agriculture and domestic crops? What steps have been taken by the AFSCA since the fire? Are measures for Belgian farmers in preparation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u48	Mr. Minister, on 26 September 2019 a fire started in the chemical company Lubrizol, located in Rouen, France. As a result of this fire, a large cloud of smoke developed, which, due to the wind direction, also extended over Belgium. Given the nature of the company and the intensity of the fire, there is a fear that this smoke cloud contained several components that were harmful to public health. The fear is that at the places where the smoke cloud passed harmful substances have been deposited on crops intended for animal or human consumption, as well as were absorbed by livestock and thus via dairy or meat products may enter the food chain. The Walloon crisis centre advised as a precaution to ventilate houses, to avoid any contact with the skin and to wash locally produced fruit and vegetables. Mr. Secretary, I have the following questions for you. Firstly, have air measurements been carried out to determine the presence of harmful substances in the smoke cloud? If yes, which ingredients were found? Are the concentrations detected alarming? Secondly, have additional precautions been taken to prevent possible contamination of the food chain, such as keeping animals on hold and testing for contamination of crops, dairy products and meat products? Thirdly, could farmers or livestock farmers be entitled to compensation if crops, livestock or dairy products were contaminated with harmful substances resulting from the fire and are therefore unsaleable or should be destroyed? Fourthly, do we have any idea of the long-term consequences of the substances falling out of the smoke cloud? If so, which one? Fifthly, have soil tests been carried out to determine whether soil contamination has occurred? Sixthly, do you believe that there has been good communication with the various services involved, as well as with the authorities in France, and that adequate action has been taken to minimise the impact on our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the health of the Belgians is a matter of fundamental concern to me. The problems associated with the spectacular fire at the Lubrizol factory in Rouen on Thursday 26 September fall within the competence of the Regions. This is therefore within the competence of the Region. The Commission is responsible for matters relating to air, water and soil pollution. The Regions are competent for air, water and soil pollution. I had a contact, in the days following the fire in Rouen, with all the services, to make sure. I have also had contacts with my colleague Maggie De Block, with the Prime Minister and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relations with the French authorities. The Walloon Minister of the Environment, Mrs Tellier, has, on Sunday 29 September, indicated, on the basis of the elements in possession of the Regional Centre of Crisis of Wallonia, that air quality was good in Belgium. She added that in-depth soil analyses did not seem necessary given the dispersion of pollutants by rain and the small amount of pollutants that had reached Belgium. Since the weekend I have made the necessary contacts with my colleagues. I also monitored the organisation of a coordination meeting, which took place on Monday 30 September in the Prime Minister's cabinet. The Cabinets of the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Environment, as well as the competent administration, including the BFSA, were also present. The BFSA has asked the regional centre to communicate about the results of possible tests. I also wrote to Minister Tellier on the weekend to ensure the availability of the federal departments involved, including AFSCA. In conclusion, we can also point out that on 20 October France informed us that, apart from environmental contamination in the Rouen region, the tests had confirmed that there were no problems and that no restrictions on agricultural foodstuffs were necessary. The BFSA has therefore not imposed any special measures on farmers, but of course remains fully at the disposal of the regional authorities. Mr Prévot, to answer frankly, given the regional competence in this area, I believe that a strong communication from the Walloon Region and the Regional Crisis Centre would probably have been a factor that would have been more reassured, since we had only one dispatch. It is not my habit, and it would obviously have been wrong for a federal minister to do the work of a regional minister. Mr Gilissen, you will probably agree. But, in this case, I wonder if we should have had a stronger communication that emanates directly from the political level to bring the element that reassured. I think that in the future, in such circumstances as are likely to continue, it would probably not be unnecessary to have a stronger communication coming directly from the responsible political leader. I absolutely don't want to lecture anyone here. It's not the object. We learn every day and we have to learn from it. Like people, farmers have been worried. Stronger communication would probably have been useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u50	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us. I agree with you that a political and regional communication – I knew, indeed, by putting my question that the competences came from most of the regions – would have been such as to reassure the people, our farmers and even Sunday gardeners who are growing a vegetable garden. The reason I called you was because the United Federation of Farmers' and Farmers' Groups (FUGEA) contacted me and informed me that it had asked AFSCA if any action had been taken. I hear that no action was taken, in particular because our French neighbours confirmed on 20 October that there were no major concerns. But this has not prevented you, since the beginning of the procedure, from holding coordination meetings, and from informing the competent regions that the AFSCA was at their disposal, which we can only welcome. However, I have the feeling that there has been a lack of communication in this file. As I said, the Regions should have reassured the population a little more and, in any case, communicate more. Indeed, we never communicate enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The fire at Lubrizol in Rouen has indeed been extensive in the media. There was a great deal of concern about possible harmful effects. As Mr Prévot has already said, we should have been able to communicate a little more about this in order to avoid the concern. I understand from your reply that we did not have to worry. The air quality was good. There are also no grounds for concern about possible soil contamination. I think you've answered most of the questions. For the rest, I will consult with my colleagues at the Flemish level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u52	Mr Minister, in the Netherlands, the Food and War Authority, the equivalent of our BFSA, ordered an investigation into the presence of lead in turmeric, following an article in NRC stating that lead is added in Bangladesh to colour turmeric yellow. At the same time, it is not evident to check the origin of herbs and they are easily subject to food fraud. It goes without saying that lead in our food is obviously not a good thing. First of all, does Bengal's turmeric end up in our food chain? Secondly, are herbs being checked with us? If so, in what way? Thirdly, in the case of contamination, do there exist channels through which the Dutch Food and War Authority informs the BFSA? Fourthly, will the BFSA carry out tests to exclude the presence of lead in imported turmeric? Fifthly, what measures can you and the BFSA take if the presence of lead in the food chain is established?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u53	Ms Gijbels, according to customs statistics, 3.5 tonnes of turmeric or herbal mixtures were imported from Bangladesh during the period from January 2018 to April 2019. Herbs are controlled in Belgium as in the Netherlands. For example, the BFSA provides annual samplings to check the presence of mycotoxins in spices. However, the Agency points out to me that there is no specific standard for lead in spices today. With regard to imports from third countries, existing European legislation provides that, in the event of recurrent problems, imports from third countries may be subject to enhanced control measures. The Agency tells me that this is not the case at the moment. If a risk to public health is identified in analyses carried out by the BFSA or by an operator under its control system, the BFSA will immediately take the necessary measures to prevent the product from being consumed. At present there is also a joint action by the BFSA and the FPS Economy concerning fraud with spices. The Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) is an efficient exchange of information between the European Member States. Each Member State shall be obliged to inform the other Member States through that system where a product is present on the market of another Member State which may pose a risk to public health. The specific RASFF report on the high level of chromium combined with lead in turmeric powder originating in India was also discussed at the latest meeting of the European Expert Group on Industrial Contaminants and Environmental Contaminants on 3 June 2019. I have asked the BFSA to check whether additional actions are needed. The Commission took the view that it was rather a problem of fraud. A European approach is recommended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do think that we should be careful about this and that a European approach is the right approach. As I mentioned earlier on other issues, good communication between the different Member States is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u55	Madam President, Minister, as defined by the AFSCA, the American seal is a bacterial disease of bees. According to the AFSCA protocol, if the colony is suspected of being affected or contaminated, the beekeeper is required to immediately report it to the local control unit (ULC) on which the apiary depends. In the event of contamination, either the contaminated colony is destroyed or it is subjected to an artificial swarming procedure. In the province of Luxembourg, and in recent months in particular, the protocol prescribed by AFSCA does not appear to have been respected by its own intervention services. While the protocol provides for the destruction or swarming of the contaminated colony, the entire apiary, consisting of several hives or colonies, has been systematically destroyed by the intervention services. This total lack of proportionality between the declared disease and the answer given raises in particular the following questions. First, there is a financial impact for the beekeeper. In addition to reconstruction work, the symbolic compensation provided for in the Protocol does not repair this damage. There is also an environmental impact. By blindly destroying entire apiaries without distinction, the AFSCA services are causing an additional blow to the disappearance of this already so threatened insect. Finally, these acts have a hygiene issue. Paradoxically, this blind and ultra-precautionous method has an obvious perverse effect. If the AFSCA services confirm this reputation of burning everything without distinction at any outbreak of infection, beekeepers will no longer report cases of diseases detected in their apiaries. So it's a trap. Minister, what is the prevalence of the disease in Belgium? Do you confirm the AFSCA figures? Do you confirm that there are other ways to treat the disease than to destroy the entire apiary? In a context of biodiversity loss, do you intend to question AFSCA and ensure that it respects its own protocol in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u56	Mrs. Thibaut, if you like bees and want to defend them, you have an ally in the square. In recent years, I have taken a series of measures aimed at better protecting bees and which place us at the forefront of the European level in this field. I love bees and I love honey. I also collect the different honeys. I am attentive to the situation of our pollinators, especially bees. We have taken forward-thinking positions at European level and, at times, even "picked" a number of European colleagues because we have been confronted with a certain conservatism. I am committed to continuing to do so. Recently, we have been able to release a budget – particularly in the field of research – to better combat varroa, which is the leading cause of mortality of honeybees. New studies could provide short- and medium-term solutions. The American seal is a highly contagious animal disease, which causes a sharp decline in productivity and causes bee colonies to die. We must remain very attentive to it. AFSCA tells me that last September, of the 7,178 registered beekeepers – 74 of whom are additional in the province of Luxembourg – the number of registered American beekeepers was 10. The 2019 prevalence, calculated from records, is thus 0.14%. This allows us to measure the extent of the phenomenon. You are quite right to recall that it is possible not to resort to the destruction of a apiary that is affected by the disease. Some colonies that do not have the symptom of a lock can thus be saved by swarming. However, this method that allows them to reconstitute is unfortunately impossible outside the development period and requires healthy hives to transfer swarms. If we look at the seven outbreaks of American shells identified in the province of Luxembourg during this year, the Agency informs me that its protocol – which requires, in particular, a priority assessment of the possibility of swarming – seems to have been respected. You're telling me that the AFSCA would not have respected its own protocol. As I have been told, this is not the case. As a result, the AFSCA complied with its protocol. Please also be aware that all beekeepers in whom colonies had to be destroyed were duly registered with the AFSCA and will be compensated in the near future. When AFSCA intervenes, it often has the wrong role. And I am well aware of the tragedy that it represents for a beekeeper to see his production destroyed. Madam Member, I will ask the AFSCA to explain its protocol and to show the highest level of pedagogy in this area. Indeed, in my view, this approach would go beyond a number of misunderstandings. I can't believe the ULC has behaved in a way that doesn't comply with protocol rules. But I am committed to asking AFSCA to explain the procedure well to beekeepers who may still be victims of the phenomenon linked to the American blockade.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I confirm that you're an ally in the bee defense room. This position is recognised by the sector. As far as the seven households in Luxembourg are concerned, you want to reassure me by saying that the swarming has been respected. I have the case of three homes in the town of Chiny where it was not respected, the entire apiary being destroyed. So I don't have the same echoes as you do. I take note of that. You say we have to explain the protocol well; it's part of the communication. But if the protocol is not respected, there is a misunderstanding. In this case, I have not received an answer regarding these cases of apiaries that have been completely destroyed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u58	I will ask AFSCA in detail for the process so that we can clarify the situation. Of course, I will give you all the details of the procedure that has been put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u59	Mr. Secretary, bacterial fire is caused by the bacteria erwinia amylovora. The plant disease, which occurs in Europe, causes major damage, including in the nurseries and the fruit-growing sector. Almost 200 plant species are known to be affected by bacterial fire. For this reason, the disease was included in Council Directive 2000/29/EC as a harmful organism in agriculture against which measures should be taken to prevent its spread. The disease is therefore subject to reporting and control requirements. The infected plant must be removed or destroyed. Under Regulation 2016/2031, it was announced that erwinia amylovora will be removed from the list of quarantine diseases from 14 December 2019. Firstly, how do you, as a minister, stand about Europe's intention? Secondly, have you already been informed of the motivation of the European Commission to remove the bacterial fire from the list of quarantine diseases by erwinia amylovora? If so, what was the justification? If not, why haven't you done so yet? Thirdly, have you already asked the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain for advice? If so, what advice has it given? If not, when will that happen? Fourthly, will you interperate the European Commission on the decision and urge it to come back to the intention? Fifthly, how do you see the impact of the measure on the further development of the disease in Belgium, in particular on the fruit and ornamental sector? Sixthly, bacterial fire spreads very quickly and is highly contagious. This not only causes material and financial damage, the disease will also cause suspicion at export destinations, such as China. They might stop imports. Do you fear negative consequences for exports of ornamental and fruit-growing products? Have you already asked for advice from the export cell of the BFSA? If not, will you do so in the short term? Will you discuss the issue with your regional colleagues, both in Flanders and in the Walloon Region?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u60	Thank you, Mr de Caluwe, for this important question. With regard to plant and animal health, I have the habit of expressing my opinion on the basis of the scientific data provided to me by the services under my supervision. In this case, I agree with the BFSA, which also supports the position of the European Commission. After all, the bacteria that causes bacterial fire no longer meets the definition of quarantine organisms. It is now widespread in Belgium, as in other countries of the European Union. We must continue to fight this plant disease, albeit with better instruments than quarantine. Bacteria fire will now be included in European legislation in the list of regulated non-quarantine organisms. In concrete terms, the cultivation and marketing of host plants will continue to be subject to control in order to ensure the absence of bacterial fire. However, their supervision falls within the exclusive competence of the Regions. In addition, consultations are under way with the competent regional authorities on the control of imports. I am in constant contact with the sectors on the subject, even yesterday, to be precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, other measures will be taken. However, I do not understand exactly what measures are being taken to combat the disease. Or is that still under investigation? After all, you said that quarantine is no longer necessary because the situation is being followed in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u62	(...).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic043x.u63	Then I'll know enough. Thank you for your answer.
