ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u1	Madam President, Minister, recently this government chose the F-35 to replace the F-16. The F-35 can be equipped with a nuclear capacity, but according to the previous minister this requires a separate government decision. I would have liked to have had an answer to the following questions. Have you already put this question on the government table? If so, what is the conclusion? If not, when will the government take a position on this? Which block will Belgium buy? Is that the block 3F or the block 4? Thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u2	Madam President, Mr Top, there is no decision on a possible nuclear capacity for the F-35s purchased. Given the current circumstances, this means that the decision on the nuclear role of the F-35 can be taken at the earliest during the next legislature. With regard to the configuration of the F-35, the memorandum of understanding between the US and Belgium established that the Belgian aircraft will be aligned with the latest possible standard or block. The current block 3F standard meets all necessary operational requirements, included in the Request for Government Proposal. By 2023, block 4 should be the reference standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have one more question for clarification. You say that the current line is block 3F and that it corresponds to the questions asked in the request. Block 4 should be ready by the delivery date. Is there a difference in cost between the two?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u4	No, this is included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u6	Minister, on 30 November 2018, the Council of Ministers approved the extension of the military assistance mission in Niger. Some tactical training programs were also approved. Niger is known as a country that is not always close to human rights. Recently it was even declared one of the worst countries for women. Child marriages, inadequate education, violence and oppression are daily costs for women in Niger. Firstly, how much attention will the military operation pay to respect for human rights, in particular women's? Secondly, was the decision on military assistance also taken into account those particular appalling circumstances on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u7	Mr Top, the military assistance mission in Niger is pursuing an active policy to promote the rule of law, human rights and development in addition to the purely military dimension. This is done in Niger through close cooperation with the Embassy, Enabel and EUCAP Sahel Niger. This is supported by contacts from the Defence Staff with the FPS Foreign Affairs and the EU. In the training programme for Nigerese soldiers, two modules focused on human rights were integrated by our military. It concerns a module rule of law or poor conflict and a module protection, which focuses on the importance of protecting the weaker in society. The first module was developed in collaboration with the ICRC and the second module with UNHCR and two NGOs. Complementary to the training in Niger, we also have Nigeri military academic and tactical trainings with attention to the democratic values in Belgium. In Niger, as in other theatres, respect for human rights and for women is a specific focus. The gender dimension is present in the choice of companies and staff working together. For example, for the security of the houses rented by the Belgian military, it was deliberately chosen to fill in part of the team of guards with women. The guiding principle of the military assistance mission in Niger is resilience and local integration. Efforts are always being made to find solutions that can easily be institutionalized in Niger. In addition, as far as possible, logistical support from Niger's economy is chosen. This has the advantage of reducing the burden on our communication lines and generating an economic return to Niger.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed explanation. I am pleased that very much is being worked on, that, as has been said, two modules have been developed and that the issue is being followed up. This is good work and we may be able to assess in the future the extent to which it will be reflected in this process and will lead to a positive evolution in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u9	Minister, a year ago, the Brussels Region was concerned about the lack of a precise inventory of the Royal Army Museum (RMA) collections and the movement of some precious pieces outside Brussels territory. The Region has also widely questioned the future of the MRA's historical scenography on its Brussels site. Your predecessors did not seem to want to respond to the region's requests for consultation, which remained unanswered. Minister, what is the status of the MRA's inventory of precious parts? Will your firm finally contact the Region to consult on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u10	Fernandez Fernandez, as far as the future of the MRA is concerned, there is an up-to-date inventory of all the collection pieces, but all the pieces are still in the process. Taking into account the fact that each piece of collection must be reviewed by the scientific staff of the War Heritage Institute and that the collection currently has 129,007 pieces, the renovation will take several more years to match what appears on the inventory documents with reality. At the end of 2017, my predecessor's office had a constructive meeting with the office of the Minister-President of the Brussels-Capital Region on the historical scenography of the MRA, with all parties agreeing on the value of making the MRA a state-of-the-art museum with an international vocation. It was agreed that the management of the Monuments and Sites of the Brussels Region and the War Heritage Institute would set up a meeting in the MRA buildings to discuss historical and technical rooms together. My firm is and remains fully available to work constructively on this issue and has asked the Director General ad interim of the War Heritage Institute to promptly arrange an appointment with the Director of the Service of the Brussels Region which I have just quoted. With regard to the MRA's tariff policy, as part of the reorganization of the management of the structures that make up the War Heritage Institute, there have been considerable disparities between tariff policies at the various sites. As a result, the Institute has worked to develop a consistent tariff policy among these sites. A study has been carried out, in particular, that the entrance fees of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History are not proportional to the quality offer it offers and are well below the average prices of similar museum institutions. This is all the more important given that the objective of this tariff increase is to create additional means to further improve the supply, to make refreshments in certain rooms in need and to strengthen the communication policy of this institution towards the public. Visiting the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History is not in the dark. While there was an exceptional decrease in attendance due to the attacks of March 2016, attendance was on the rise in 2017 with 113,274 visitors. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there was a correction of visitor standards in 2017 in relation to what appeared in the answer to Parliamentary Question No. 14111 by Mr.Buysrogge of February 1, 2018, following the double counting of 2,078 rented audio guides. In 2018, the museum welcomed 115,812 visitors, an increase of 2,538 visitors compared to 2017. I hope that this trend will continue in the years to come and that potential visitors will realize that the price they are being asked to receive is fully relevant to the importance and quality of the collections they are pleased to admire. I'm sorry I've already answered your next question, but it was on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u11	Minister, what is important is to have the answer. Thank you for your answers. I am pleased that the inventory has taken place and I measure the magnitude of the work. It may be an opportunity to acknowledge the inventory work that is being done within the MRA, as well as the work in the management of collections and scientific work. You are announcing contacts with the Brussels Region. This 2017 meeting had been constructive, but it was not followed by many effects. So I'm glad you're taking your hand. It's good if the government paid the museum for the entrance, even if it's not a big deal. I am also pleased that the number of visitors is increasing. However, I can already tell you, as well as the MR colleagues, that we will support the MR's proposal to ensure that access to all federal museums is free of charge.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u12	Madam President, Minister, in recent years, the Medical Component has demonstrated its full interest and expertise, whether it is operating abroad, at exceptional events such as the attacks or through the expertise of the Royal Military Hospital. Unfortunately, I have been able to read recently in the press that military doctors complain bitterly about their working conditions and that at a conference at the Royal Military School, defence lawyers have expressed the possibility of partial outsourcing within the Medical Component, which is no longer seen as a priority in the strategic vision, which our group has strongly criticized. The rate of attrition in the training of military doctors, whether generalists or specialists, is very important: it would be around 40% for different causes. Minister, what about a possible outsourcing within the Medical Component? Is a lead envisaged? What functions would they be affected? What is being done to try to reduce the rate of attrition within the Medical Component, particularly for the function of military doctor while avoiding the development of different statutes within it? What elements are being implemented to make the military physician function more attractive?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u13	Madam President, Mr Chabot, I would like to point out that at the symposium of lawyers at the Royal Military School you mentioned, there was no mention of a definitive outsourcing of medical support or parts of it during the missions. Following the cancellation of a military mission due to the shortage of doctors, the Medical Component was asked to seek a solution to prevent this situation from recurring. One possible solution is to hire civilian doctors under contract of employment for missions abroad – for example training – in the short term and at low risk. In addition, for very specific missions, specialized firms can be used for a specific part of medical support, such as air evacuation, if it is found that existing resources within Defence do not allow such missions to be carried out. A specific concept has been developed to make military medicine more attractive. The increase in this attractiveness requires the introduction of a new customised status. Pending the creation of this new status as a medical technical trade, the medical authority has obtained a temporary mandate in order to reconcile as much as possible the wishes of the Medical Technical Corps with the needs of the Defence. A successful recruitment campaign and transparent communication on Defence needs and training opportunities have been established. A coaching program was also introduced, paying particular attention to training activities outside of Defence and to work-life balance. I hope that all these measures will help meet Defence's needs through the necessary recruitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u14	Minister, thank you for your response and your proposals. I was very concerned about what I read in the press, because it was about suicides, pressure and abandonment among military doctors. It was even written, "We'd look like we're in a dictatorship." I know, it's the press...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u15	Minister, I was able to read recently in the press that the outsourcing of functions within Defence was continuing at high speed. This is now about the outsourcing of postal services within Defence. Until now, this was by no means intended. Moreover, it would appear that this decision was taken without consultation with the trade unions or information to the staff concerned. As of January 2019, not only will letters sent to civilian addresses be sent via bpost, but the same will apply to letters sent to military addresses. With respect to classified correspondence, Defence states that it has a secure defence network that sends documents in digital form. Therefore, Minister, what will become of the members who were assigned to the Defence postal service? What is the cost of this new outsourcing? Will other services not planned to date also be affected by this outsourcing/privatization? Why have the unions not been informed and consulted? Are you able to guarantee the security and confidentiality of sensitive documents in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u16	Chabot, in accordance with the Strategic Vision, Defence has chosen to outsource a number of non-military services, including the Territorial Post including postal sorting and mail distribution. Trade unions are regularly informed, either at central or local level, about ongoing outsourcing initiatives and I have discussed this with them in recent days. With regard to the military post, only military mail between the various military quarters was still provided by the military chain. The mail sent to the civil world was already sent via bpost. The administrative simplification and the associated digitisation process have improved the efficiency of the distribution of military mail by bpost. Through the outsourcing of these tasks, military mail can be distributed more quickly. It is true that five military workstations will be abolished in Berlaar. Three persons affected by this abolition are already retired, while the other two have been redirected to other posts. Subcontracting of postal services remains cost neutral. In the long run, financial savings are expected following the continuation of the digitalisation process. For classified correspondence, Defence has a secure defence network for the sending of documents in digital form, in accordance with military directives. Paper mail items are, as in the past, accompanied by a stafette in accordance with military security instructions. I believe it is a good thing that we can actually trust bpost services for the whole of traditional postal activity, even between military quarters. On the other hand, I repeat, there are, of course, special arrangements where confidentiality and classification requirements have to be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u17	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Peteghem (Commission); Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Peteghem; Mr Van Debates of the European Parliament 2871 by Mrs Grovonius was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u19	Madam President, Minister, on Thursday 25 October, following a Kern, the Michel 1st government put an end to the inescapable suspense in the case of the replacement of the Belgian F-16s. He announced his choice to buy 34 U.S. F-35 fighter aircraft, just before the expiry of the U.S. offer, rather than the other plane that is still officially competing, the British-led Eurofighter. If the decision was official since the end of October, still remained to be negotiated with the seller, Lockheed Martin, the terms of a future contract binding our countries. However, I learned from the press that Belgium and the United States would have signed a memorandum of understanding, and then, as a result, the contract on 26 October, as well as the agreement with the American manufacturer. While this signature for a billion-dollar contract did take place, it is surprising that no communication was made about it. Mr Minister, could you tell me, then, what is the status of the F-16 replacement procedure and whether there is a contract to that effect signed by your predecessor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u20	Madam President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, on the basis of the decision of the Council of Ministers concerning the award of the replacement contract for capacity F-16, the then Minister of Defence, Mr Vandeput, signed a memorandum of understanding on 25 October 2018. This document was then countersigned by the US Deputy Secretary of Defense on October 26, 2018. As a result, the Minister of Defence countersigned the letter of offer and acceptance (LOA) dated October 27, 2018. This letter is a U.S. government document that formalizes an offer to sell equipment and service to a foreign government in the context of foreign military sales. Finally, on October 25, 2018, the Ministers of Economy and Defence also countersigned the agreement with Lockheed Martin Global and United Technologies Corporation on the implementation of measures to protect essential security interests. I therefore confirm that there is a contract between Belgium for the purchase of 34 F-35A aircraft and its in-service support and that all the documents to be signed under this replacement programme have been signed. With regard to the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate on the choice of the replacement of the F-16s – this is a question asked by another parliamentarian – the inspector, although seconded to the Defence, does not belong to my department. It is therefore not for me to comment on this inspector's remarks or to give an interpretation of them. As has been said on several occasions in parliamentary sessions, the acquisition of the new combat air capability is part of a government-to-government agreement, which implies that there is no direct contract between Belgium and manufacturers. It is up to the US government to enter into a contract with the manufacturers concerned on behalf of Belgium. The signature of the various agreements derives from the decision of the Council of Ministers of 25 October 2018. As these agreements were ready to be signed, there was no reason to wait. There is therefore no question of talking about haste. Industry involvement in the construction and maintenance of the F-35 falls within the purview of the Minister of Economy. However, I can tell you that from a public procurement point of view, the best and final offer, the best final offer, has closed the negotiations. Candidates' proposals relating to measures to protect essential security interests should therefore no longer be subject to negotiations. The implementation and implementation of these measures will be monitored by the government and, in particular, by the administration to ensure that what has been offered is realized. In this context, discussions will indeed be held between all the actors concerned. Finally, following the vote of the Parliament, Article 3 of the Law of 23 May 2017 on military programming of investments for the period 2016-2030 was amended in order to authorize the payment of instalments and advances provided for contractually in the framework of the major investment programmes, starting in 2018-2019. Following the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Military Programming of Major Investments of 20 December 2018, advances were in fact settled in 2018 for the F-35 acquisition programmes amounting to 122,819,518.20 euros, on the one hand, and for the acquisition of the multipurpose frigates amounting to 770,000 euros, on the other hand. For 2019, an overall amount for advances of €242,200,000 is required mainly for F-35 acquisition programs, multipurpose fridges, mine hunters and motorized capacity program vehicles. [[These are the things I can communicate to you.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u21	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. This is the implementation of the decisions taken. We take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u22	According to the agenda, we are ready for Question No 1, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Since he's absent and hasn't let you know, his question expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u23	Mr Minister, my question concerns the powers of the government in current cases and their impact on the various modernisation programmes under way. The budget for 2019 was not approved by Parliament and the government is resigning. It is therefore interesting to know what impact that has on the functioning of Defence, in particular on the implementation of the modernisation programmes announced in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017. I have three specific questions on this matter, Minister. Can you state the state of play for the programmes announced in that law which still needs an opinion from the Commission on Army purchases and sales? Can you give an update on the programmes that were at the stage of negotiation, but which had not yet been awarded before 22 December 2018? Which of these should be awarded by the Council of Ministers? How are the others awarded? What commitments were still implemented after the resignation of your predecessor for the programme contracts announced in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u24	Mr Buysrogge, the following accounting commitments for programmes announced in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017 were implemented after the resignation of my predecessor. The approval of the authorising officer responsible was obtained before that dismissal. I will list a number of files: advances on essential security interests amounting to 277 million euros; life extension Pandur, replacement power pack and integration of the Remote Controlled Weapon Station for an amount of 14 919 940 euros; life extension Pandur or modernisation of the outdated observation and exploration platform for an amount of 7 833 703,23 euros; life extension Pandur anti-RPG protection networks for an amount of 1 425 836 euros; purchase of combat recovery vehicles and protected recovery vehicles and technical assistance for an amount of 30 593 168,13 euros; modernisation of the standard individual armament for an amount of 40 831 983,86 euros; purchase of forklift trucks 4x4, technical assistance and spare parts for an amount of 5 108 012,24 euros; purchase of a full flight simulator. I also said something about the government decision at the end of the year. The state of play for the programmes which were negotiated but which had not yet been awarded before 22 December is the following, with the indication of those for whom a decision will be requested from the Council of Ministers: the mine-fighting vessel programme is in the award phase and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers; the dual simulation training materials programme is in the award phase; the medical equipment programme is in the selection phase; the radio programme for the soldiers is in the preparation phase of the specifications. The award of such contracts shall be carried out by the authorising officer responsible. The other programmes announced in the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017 for 2019 will be submitted to the Special Commission for Army Purchases and Sales, as well as to the Council of Ministers, depending on the maturity and urgency of the programmes. In doing so, I have provided a detailed list of all possible dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the very detailed list, even after the comma.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u26	I was Minister of Finance for 12 years. It's important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u27	It's been noted. In fact, it is important to get this all properly listed so that we know what was decided when and what could happen. The question arises as to the extent to which the government still has the power to take decisions on matters which have not yet passed the stage of the AVA. Moreover, I have tabled a separate oral question on mine-fighting vessels, which is included under the next item on the agenda, so perhaps we can go into more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u28	Mr Minister, at the beginning of 2018, the Special Commission on Army Purchases and Sales held an exchange of views on this subject and a positive opinion was given. My specific questions are prompted by the fact that the award is delayed for some time. Can you give us an update on the programme to replace mine-fighting vessels? How many candidates to this contract? When can the award be made? Will Parliament, more specifically the Special Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, be involved in this? Can the appropriations necessary for the implementation of the programme still be committed in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u29	Mr Buysrogge, the award phase is still ongoing. The candidates submitted their final proposal, in the form of a best and final offer, on 20 December 2018. At present, these tenders are being thoroughly examined and evaluated in order to arrive at a final ranking. The award is expected during the first trimester of 2019. In accordance with the administrative protocol between the special commission for the purchase and sale of the Chamber of Representatives and the Minister of Defence, this committee is responsible for following up this dossier. Where the necessary appropriations are available, the mine hunters' programme may still be committed in 2019. I am not allowed to say anything more about the offers themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u30	It seems to me, Minister, that it would be interesting to have an exchange of views on this matter in the special committee, of which I am the chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u31	Minister, I would like to ask you about the equipment provided by the Defence to the Belgian military participating in the NATO mission in Estonia. As you pointed out yesterday in the Committee on External Relations, you have no control over the press or what it says. Neither do I. That's so much better for democracy! However, the press reported at the end of December that the equipment provided to the military was inadequate or even inadequate. Thus, there would be a lack of protective goggles, such that soldiers would have to buy them on their own and at their own expense. This situation, if confirmed, may prove dangerous on mission. Anyway, it's unfortunate. Minister, do you intend to remedy this situation without delay so that our soldiers can carry out their missions under decent conditions? If so, can you tell me more about the measures already taken or which will be taken by your department?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u32	Mr Corthouts, I was somewhat sorry to see this information circulated. As I had just taken office, I did not have the opportunity to fully master communication. In any case, this information was inaccurate. Our staff have individual equipment to operate and train in winter conditions, as is the case in the national territory. However, following risk analyses and in-theatre reconnaissances, our soldiers received additional equipment from the Belgian military supply chain. Purchases of high-mountain equipment – ski pants and jackets, gloves, thermo bottles, masks, extreme cold sleeping bags – have also been made so that our detachment can operate under conditions that are colder than those we know in Belgium. Part of this equipment was delivered prior to departure. The rest of the items were provided in the field. In addition, all our soldiers are equipped with ballistic protective goggles that meet operational and climatic requirements. Structurally, each mission is subject to a planning cycle that takes into account the aspect of individual equipment and equipment. I would simply add – as I have already done for other departments – that, in order to avoid such incidents of communication, it would of course be better if, in case of concern, comments and criticism were addressed directly to the hierarchy or even to my cabinet. In this way, I could check the reality of the field. According to the information available to me, orders had already been made. Equipment was provided to members prior to departure and on site. So I'm a little sorry about the miscommunications. They probably have several reasons. The communication was organised outwards. Perhaps the answers provided by the Defence were not prompt and accurate enough. I'll see to it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u33	Minister, thank you for this relatively positive response. But, as you will agree, this is not the first time that the equipment made available to the military on mission has been debated. At a time when many military personnel are choosing to leave Defence and the latter is having a hard time attracting new recruits – we were still debating this at the beginning of the session with the bill – this was an unfortunate and unfortunate situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u34	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l In his question, Mr Yüksel converted 28313, 28314 and 28316 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u35	Minister, at the meeting of the National Defence Commission on 18 July 2018, I asked your predecessor a question about the problem that sensitive information can be disclosed through sports apps used by military personnel. He then argued that, in addition to sensitisation, there was also a new directive on the use of smart devices, including activity trackers, at different locations, both inland and during operations abroad, in the pipeline. During the Christmas holidays, however, it was found that little has changed in practice. An article in Het Nieuwsblad of 28 December stated that the sports app Strava still reveals sensitive information from Belgian military and military installations. I would like to point out that, as of this month, 250 of our land component men will be part of a multinational battalion under British command, under NATO's Enhanced Forward Presence mission in the Balticum. First of all, Minister, is the new directive on which we are talking now ready? Can you explain that? Can we look at the directive? Secondly, do you believe that prevention and awareness are sufficient? Thirdly, will you take additional measures? Fourthly, what rules will the Belgian military have to follow in Estonia? I'd like to get some explanation. Will they have to follow the Belgian or British rules on the use of mobile equipment? Finally, can you explain the good practices applied by other countries in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u36	Mr Yüksel, a detachment of 250 troops from the Land Component has indeed been deployed to Estonia since the beginning of the month as part of the NATO Enhanced Forward Presence mission. The Belgian detachment will be part of the British multinational battlegroup for a period of four months. Given the problem that sensitive information can be disclosed through certain sports apps, as well as through social media such as Facebook and Instagram, on 14 December 2018, Defense not only developed sensitisation, but also a directive on the use of portable electronic devices in operations and during exercises. For each operation stage and on a permanent basis, a proper balance shall be struck between operational needs and security and, on the one hand, the need for simple and accessible communication. Social communication is not lost in this either. This means that on the basis of the threat analysis and on a permanent basis, it will be determined which measures apply, with the necessary flexibility to tighten or relax them, depending on the operational activity and the safety environment. Most other partner countries with which Belgian military operate apply similar good practices. In this digital cyber environment, the threat does not distinguish between nationalities or detachment. During my first briefing at the headquarters of Defense, I asked the CHOD to give more details about the operations and about the organisation here in Belgium and at Brussels headquarters. I believe that we should pay even more attention to this issue. It will become increasingly important in the following months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that a new directive has been drawn up for the use of social media. The security of personnel is important, but also the security of Defence and the security of the information of Defence in general, both internally and abroad. I have looked at examples of other countries, where soldiers on mission take their personal cell phones and make them available a disposable cell phone. The British do that, among other things. I am pleased to hear you say that the threat analysis in this regard is being properly followed and that you have requested additional measures for the security of the domestic military and for the defence of the defence. I will continue to follow this up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u38	Minister, your predecessor's policy on barracks continues to cause a great deal of uncertainty and concern to the military and civilian personnel of the Defence Department. In East Flanders there was another barracks, that of Semmerzék near Gavere. Minister Vandeput stated in 2017 that the barracks would close permanently by 2020. That is unacceptable to me and my party, because Semmerboer is the only quarter of an hour of Defence in the province of East Flanders. The approximately 250 employees were to be employed by Belgocontrol in Steenokkerzeel or to be assigned another post to Defense. Minister, would you reconsider your predecessor's decision on the closure of the barracks? Isn't it an option to maintain a minimum occupation in Semmerboer? Isn't it an option to place a detachment of another component? How many soldiers are in the barracks today? How many of them work as an air traffic controller? How many other employees are there? Were staff transferred to other departments? Has there been any consultation with the local level regarding any re-location of the site? Were any guidance measures developed along the lines of the Royal Decree of 26 August 2010 providing for certain exceptional guidance measures applicable to the staff of the Ministry of Defence who are directly involved in the military's transformation plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u39	Minister, I have a similar but broader question. It's about all the barracks and quarters of the Defense Department. Within the framework of good governance, the government, which is now in progress, had planned to adapt the future installation of units and quarters to the future needs of a smaller and more modern military force. So far the committee has not been given access to a plan for the implantation of units and quarters. Is it possible to get a statement at a forthcoming meeting? It is difficult to explain a full plan here in a short space of time; so I would like to have a more detailed explanation at another meeting. Defence faces major human resources challenges. The number of employees has fallen by thousands since the beginning of the legislature and will fall by thousands during the next legislature. Will keeping too much infrastructure open not contribute to this human resources problem? Will there not be an increase in staffing problems if this requires staff that may be needed elsewhere? The infrastructure must serve the tasks and not the other way around. In France and the Netherlands, that principle was applied a while ago. Could you give the committee an overview of what infrastructure is needed to carry out what tasks at the next plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as my predecessor has already mentioned in reply to written question No. 13065 by Mr Egbert Lachaert on the future plans for the barracks of Semmerzake, the military and civil Air Traffic Control Center will be located at Belgocontrol in Steenokkerzeel. In principle, the military will leave Gavere in 2019 or early 2020. However, no decision has yet been taken on the future implementation for the quarter-hour period. Given the placement of the new local authorities, both municipal and provincial, they will be contacted again to pulse to their interest. A limited detachment will remain on the site for the maintenance of radar and ground air communication systems. A detachment of another component is not considered. There are 187 soldiers active in the barracks today, 44 of them air traffic controllers. The annual change plan takes into account the plans from the Strategic Vision. Accompanying measures are provided for, as laid down in the Royal Decree of 19 March 2018 providing for an exceptional restructuring fee for the personnel of the Ministry of Defence who are directly involved in the 2030 Strategic Vision of the Armed Forces. The Royal Decree of 26 August 2010 was dissolved with this Royal Decree of 19 March 2010. Madam President, with regard to the full deployment plan for the Defence Unit, I can tell you that no decision has yet been taken. It will, I think, be up to the next government to find out which military quarters are no longer needed. Defence has addressed the human resources issue by gradually outsourcing the facility management of quarters, including watchkeeping, catering and technical maintenance. As in France and the Netherlands, Belgium also has the principle that the infrastructure serves the mission and not the other way around. In the context of the acquisition of new capacity under the Strategic Vision, new infrastructure will be created. Within the quarters, the use of existing buildings is rationalised according to actual needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u41	Minister, I would like to express a few reservations. This is, of course, a decision of your predecessor, but I took the opportunity to bring the problem to your attention. Semmer is a very specific case, including the merger between Belgocontrol and military air traffic control. I would like to point out, Minister, that if the barracks in Semmerzén close in East Flanders, there is no military presence there anymore. You will agree with me that that is not really possible. National defence is a government apparatus that must be present in all regions and provinces. You have not made that decision to close barracks, but I think there should be a minimum presence in every province. I urge you, from a conviction I share with many people in the province, to ensure a certain visibility in our province. I welcome your statement that there will be a limited detachment to maintain radar, among other things, but what should we imagine? Is that a group of 30 or 40 soldiers or 10 people? Do you have a visual on that? I think you agree with me that East Flanders should still have a barracks. In this way, we also give residents of that province the opportunity to be employed there. Once again, I urge you to review the file together with the Chief of Staff and the services in order to ensure a certain presence in East Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u42	Minister, you say there is no plan for implantation. If there's no plan, you can't come and explain it. I have tabled a written question on the various barracks and quarters and on the state of the infrastructure and the number of staff. I will wait for the answer to that question to get a closer look at the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1016x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Grosemans' 28322 will be converted into a written question.
