ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u1	Question No 26820 by Mr Blanchart is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u2	Minister, in the context of the further modernisation of consumer law in Belgium, you organised a consultation in November between the representatives of consumer organisations and those of businesses, the FPS Economy and the European Commission. A number of proposals from the European Commission, including on-line consumer rights and on creating better conditions for our businesses, were the starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u3	Chairperson: Griet Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u4	Minister, can you summarise how you will continue to work with the organisations concerned to apply the European Commission's proposals in Belgium? Have you set a specific timeline for this? Did a number of quick wins emerge from the first discussion? Will Parliament soon be able to take a legislative initiative in this area? Can you explain the Commission's proposal to revise the modalities of the right of withdrawal? To what extent does the European Commission wish to change the modalities? How does the government deal with this in current cases? How do the different national organisations respond to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u5	Mr Janssen, in the context of the New Deal for Consumers, the European Commission made two proposals for directives in April. On 12 November, the FPS Economy organised a consumer dialogue, where the Commission presented its proposals and the stakeholders who participated in the initiative expressed their views. As can be expected, consumers' views are not similar to those of companies. However, the initiative was useful for further discussions in the Council's expert group. Designing a timeline is not possible at the moment. That will only be possible once the directives have been adopted. As regards specifically the changes to the right of withdrawal, the Commission intends to respond to the abuse of that right. Abuse, both by businesses and by consumers, must be combated. So solutions are being sought. My position on this is that the rules must be precise and clear so that they cannot lead to abuse in the opposite direction. The text before us does not exclude the unilateral refusal of the withdrawal of undertakings, as it would have been used well. I hope my answer is clear in that regard. As a government of current affairs, I am open to any initiatives being taken here. I will have to repeat that a few more times in my answers. If initiatives are taken here, I will be happy to participate and participate in the discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament No 27659 by Mrs Lambrecht and others Mrs Dierick's 27677 will be converted into written questions. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 27702 by Mrs Ceyssens. It is not present and has not sent a message.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u8	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of 2018, I once again asked you a number of questions about the future of the solder and fence period in our country. A survey carried out at that time did not give a clear picture of the position of traders with regard to the survival of these periods. For example, there were striking differences between Flanders and Wallonia. You then indicated that you would continue to consult with the organisations concerned in order to clarify matters. In 2016 I also asked you a number of questions about shifting the solder period. The NSZ then launched the proposal to shift the solder and guard periods for a month. From your answers, it was possible to conclude that not every sector was in favour of this. Yesterday or the day before yesterday the NSZ again suggested to shift the solder period, which should be postponed from January according to the NSZ to February. Mr Minister, which organisations have had an exchange of views since the beginning of 2018 on the solder and bond period? What decisions can you make from these conversations? Is a change, e.g. a shift of the barrier period, a possibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u9	That is a very interesting discussion, Mr Janssen. It's moving in all directions. The discussion I wanted to open concerned the abolition of the barrier period. A direct survey of traders was organised on this matter. The poll was carried out by the Ipsos office. The results confirmed the different views in the North and South of the country. They were also explained to UNIZO and the UCM. This additional questioning has not allowed agreement to be reached within the government on a change in the legal rules, but I would ask Parliament, if possible, to take an initiative to deal with the problem. I am happy to make the draft law that I have prepared on this subject available to Members of Parliament. You can then make a proposal, which can be discussed further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u10	Thank you for your clear answer, Minister. So you want to leave the initiative to Parliament. If there are so many differences in the results of the survey between the North and the South of the country, however, we should not be too quick to hope to find a majority in this committee, but perhaps we will try.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in recent weeks a number of media reports have been published on the impact of online reviews on shops and restaurants. At first sight, this system is to the benefit of both traders, catering operators and consumers. However, it also repeats reviews that are falsely submitted, by critics who have not visited the store or restaurant in question, or by competitors who want to put each other in a bad light. It provides information which is detrimental to the business in question but which also gives wrong advice to the other consumers. In October 2017, I asked you a number of questions about this. You then stated that there was an investigation going on and that you would discuss the results with the Restaurant Federations. Has the investigation of false reviews been completed? What conclusions have been drawn from this? Have you been able to discuss the results with the federations? Which federations were involved? What were their views? My final question is about a legislative initiative, but I will have to drop it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u12	Madam President, Mr Janssen, the Economic Inspectorate has analysed twelve popular Belgian websites on which opinions can be published. These twelve websites are operated by six companies. The focus in this study was on the possible misleading of the consumer. Deficiencies were identified regarding the identification of the company that manages the website. Furthermore, it has not always been clear how the goods assessed are classified. Five of the six companies audited fully followed up the comments of the Economic Inspectorate, one file is still ongoing. As the investigation has not yet been fully completed, the Inspection has not yet provided me with a final report. In reply to my question, the Inspection confirmed that I will receive this report before the end of February. The planned maintenance with the Catering Federations will therefore be possible. Mr Janssen, assuming that you are interested in that report, I will deliver it to this committee and to you as soon as I have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I am certainly a requesting party to receive that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u14	Minister, my question is about the withdrawal costs for ticket distributors. The transposition of the CSA Directive (Payment Accounts Directive) "on the comparability of payment account fees, change of payment account and access to a payment account with basic benefits" aims to improve the comparability of bank charges between institutions and to improve access to basic banking services. The transposition of the Payment Services Directive (PSD2) has also made some improvements to the consumer's situation, including limiting the consumer's liability to EUR 50 in the event of loss or theft of the payment instrument or abolishing Bancontact supplements. Despite these improvements during 2018, there is a tendency to see that what the European legislator gives with one hand, some banking institutions take it from the other. This is the case with the €0.5 charge that will be charged by ING from 1 January 2019 (and which are already charged by other institutions) to the holders of a free account, when they make a withdrawal via the distributor of another agency. In view of the disappearance of ATMs in rural areas and the fact that it is the most impoverished public that has these free accounts, this puts into perspective the developments mentioned here. For example, Bancontact supplements are now prohibited, but the merchant can still refuse payment by card below certain amounts. There is therefore a great risk that some consumers will pay in withdrawal fees what they save in Bancontact supplement. Minister, I would like to know your views on this matter. Do you consider it a matter of the freedom of banking institutions to preserve their (although already important) margin at the expense of the least mobile customers or, on the contrary, of abuse to be combated? Does consumer protection not require going further than simply transposing European directives? Have you planned to respond to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Lamotte, I would like to point out that bank rates are not subject to price regulation. You know that very well. If the rates are adjusted, this is primarily a commercial decision of the bank itself. The installation and maintenance of distributors generate real costs for banks. Some offer fully free accounts, while others have opted for the billing of such withdrawals. The amounts charged also vary from bank to bank. As for the reduction in the number of banking agencies, at the end of 2017, Belgium had 8,235 ATMs. Comparing this figure at European level, Belgium is in the European average when it comes to the number of distributors per million inhabitants. To my astonishment, I find that some regions, cities or municipalities impose a tax on ATMs. I am thinking, for example, of the Brussels-Capital Region and the city of Brussels. The Brussels Region has recently decided to raise the tax per distributor to €958.90. In Wallonia, there is also a regional tax on ATMs over EUR 1,000. In my view, the decision of some banks to charge a cost for withdrawals made via a network other than their own does not call into question the gentleman's agreement concluded in 2004. This agreement provides for the possibility for the consumer to make 24 free withdrawals. In accordance with this gentleman's agreement, the bank can itself choose the channel through which it offers free withdrawals. The network of their own ATMs is therefore an option. For people with low incomes or those who, for some other reason, do not obtain a regular bank account, there is the possibility of benefiting from an account under the basic banking service. The law requires customers to be informed of the new rates two months before they come into force and to have the option of closing their account free of charge. Banking mobility now allows consumers to switch easily from one bank to another and thus compete. In the same vein, I consider it particularly important for customers to be able to compare bank rates much more actively. FSMA is currently developing a website, which will serve as a true comparison of the rates for the most representative banking services, including the withdrawal of cash from another bank. This tool will make it possible to play even more effectively the competition between banks. Although its practical development was somewhat delayed, the FSMA assured me that it would be made available to the public at the end of February.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, in some remote locations, it is difficult to find a ticket distributor, hence the need for cash. The imposition by banks of a fee, I would say, on the withdrawal of money seems to me to be abusive, in particular, for people living in remote areas or in rural areas and the least mobile. This is also a situation to be combated. Beyond simply transposing European directives, we must therefore react to this situation. I note, however, that you have not answered my question on this subject. So I guess you're sticking to the law. In my view, this is a lack of forecast for those consumers who are poor and are often the most fragile. I would remind you that we have decided to abolish the Bancontact tax for customers, but that we have also decided to tax the withdrawal of cash. It is no more or less one way of giving with one hand and of resuming with the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u17	Minister, since my question was tabled last year, you have had an advertising campaign on this subject. In 2016, out of 199 inspections carried out by solar bank operators, 7% were in good standing. Last year, the situation improved somewhat, with 29% (77 out of 269 controlled centres). Between January and the end of May 2018, out of 94 controlled centres, only 9 were in good standing, giving us a 90% non-compliance rate. In these figures, 12 per cent of the centres still use solar benches with too high radiation and 29 per cent simply do not have compliant equipment. It is also noted that one operator in two does not meet its information obligations. The Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 imposing new obligations on the sector entered into force on 1 January 2019. Among these obligations is that of the consumer to submit a medical certificate issued by a doctor unless the tanning centre has a device to assess the skin type of the customers on the spot. The acquisition of such a device represents a substantial but almost indispensable investment for the sustainability of many centres. However, you yourself acknowledged in the presentation of your policy note that if the rates of non-compliance continued to be so high, we would go towards a pure and simple ban on tanning centres. Mr Minister, in view of the already very high rate of infringements in this sector, are there any indications that it will decrease after even more stringent rules come into force? If so, which ones? If not, do you not think that it would be more opportune and fairer to be clear by setting now a deadline from which the operation of a tanning centre will be prohibited? This would allow the sector to gradually reconvert itself rather than impose new expenses on operators that they may not be able to profit from.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u18	Monsieur de Lamotte, the Royal Decree of 24 September 2017 establishes a number of strict rules for the operation of tanning centres. They have been in place since the beginning of this year and are intended to make it impossible to handle solar benches thanks to service automation. Thus, the health and safety of the consumer must be guaranteed in tanning centres. I am sure that these measures will help to improve the situation in this sector. I have already said that the aim is not to ban the operation of solar benches, so there is no timetable for this. I hope, however, that the sector is well aware that this is its last chance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u19	Minister, since you say this is his last chance, it means that we will be seeing closures because of non-compliance with the regulations. This week, you spoke on the radio about the problem of skin diseases. If the rules are not respected, we are moving towards a public health problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u20	Madam President, Minister, I would like to raise with you my concern about the Durobor goblet in Soignies. Today, 150 families hold their breath and are suspended from the decision of a banking institution that will be decisive for the sustainability of the company. I am very concerned because Durobor has been fighting for a long time, both management and workers, to modernize its facilities and develop from an economic point of view. The two current shareholders, Herman Green Invest and Sogepa, signed an agreement to invest EUR 16 million for the installation, in 2019, of three new production lines. Shareholders table EUR 5.5 million and request a bank loan for the rest, EUR 10.5 million. If this first phase of investment is successful, a second investment plan of EUR 22 million could be implemented with the purchase of a new furnace and the construction of new installations. Minister, this issue was tabled in early December. In the meantime, things have changed. I'll take back the last elements. The bank was supposed to decide by December 21, 2018, but the bank decided to postpone its decision from week to week. It is expected that this decision will be taken by the end of January. The analysis of the unions did not deny it. On the contrary! If funding for this phase 1 is not secured, the future of the activity will be at risk. The Dutch owner stated at a business council held on 24 January 2019 that he would give himself until the end of January to decide whether to throw the sponge or not. The Walloon Minister of Economy has confirmed the alternative and, if there is no answer by the end of the month, it will be bankruptcy. As a reminder, eight workers were already laid off at the beginning of January in order, it seems, to give guarantees to the banks. Mr Minister, since your department is particularly concerned about the sustainability of our businesses, I wanted to address this issue with you. Could you give us an update on the situation? How do you explain that the banking institution postpones this decision? Has the federal government made any contact on this issue? Finally, what is your vision of the future of this Walloon glitter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u21	Mrs Winkel, I find myself in a somewhat special situation because this question falls within the competence of Mr Pierre-Yves Jeholet, Walloon Minister for the Economy and Employment. However, having obtained additional information, I asked my staff to contact him to see if it is possible to find out more. At the moment, it is very delicate for me to answer you before I have heard Mr Jeholet, who is the competent minister in the Walloon Region. In any case, I will contact him as soon as possible to inform me at best of the situation that you have told me about. Then I will try to answer you, without encroaching on Mr Jeholet's skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u22	Minister, thank you. I know that we are between two levels of competence, the Walloon level and the federal level. However, I found it important to question you about this rather dramatic situation. We find ourselves here with a Walloon company carrying a real industrial project. That is why the Walloon Region believes in it and wants to invest. Sogepa is the financial arm of the Walloon Region. It's an important project. Everyone believes in it. There is an investor and workers with recognized know-how. All the elements are gathered to make it work. We're talking a lot about "jobs, jobs, jobs." It is true that measures have been taken to create flexi-jobs, sometimes precarious jobs, etc. I find it a shame not to try everything when you have all the ingredients to succeed, with the key to sustainable and quality jobs. Imagination and measures must be found to support these small businesses that exist in our territory. They must be supported in order to sustain these quality jobs. I therefore thank you for contacting regional minister Jeholet and I propose that we keep in touch on the follow-up to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u23	The message has clearly been sent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u24	Madam President, Minister, my question from last December, I will allow myself to update it. It has been several years since the Test-Achats association has been in conflict with DKV regarding the increase in its health insurance rates. This conflict has seen another turnaround at the level of the Council of State, with action being taken against the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium (NBB). In this case, Test-Achats wants to know why the BNB authorized, in 2015, AXA and DKV insurers to adjust the amount of their health insurance premiums to the increase. Test-Achats accuses the governor of the BNB of not being sufficiently transparent about this decision. The consumer association invokes article 32 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to consult each administrative document and obtain a copy of it. Test-Achats suggests that the law has been diverted from its purpose. Article 504 of the Act of 13 March 2016 allows insurers to turn to the National Bank in the event that the application of their tariffs gives rise to or is likely to give rise to losses, in order to obtain a derogation from the normal rules for indexing premium amounts. The aim should therefore be to protect consumers who would obviously all lose if the company were to fall into the red and no longer be able to meet its commitments. The aim should not, however, be to allow insurers to maximize their profits, in particular by offering extremely low entry premiums before increasing, in a second stage, the amount of premiums outside the indexation beacons, once the consumer has become captive. Minister, could you take stock of this issue? Have you contacted the Governor of the National Bank for the reasons why he invokes secrecy since he does not want to postpone his decision and there is no transparency in administrative acts? What is your assessment of section 504 of the Act of March 13, 2016? Are you considering changing it? It is true that today it is no longer possible for you, but a bill can still be tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u25	Madam President, Mrs Lalieux, at my request and further to your question, my administration has contacted the National Bank of Belgium to obtain more information on the dispute between Test-Achats and the BNB. On 16 November 2018, the Council of State delivered a judgment in relation to the above-mentioned dispute. In that judgment, it annulled the decision of the Governor of the National Bank for reasons of formal reasoning. It is clear that the tariff increase which Article 504 allows the National Bank to impose does not constitute a subjective right in the head of insurance undertakings and that the objective of this provision is not to allow them to attract customers by excessively low premiums before increasing them on the basis of Article 504 or maximising their profits. The overall objective of this legal framework is to protect the consumer by allowing him to enjoy his life for an adequate period of time, at a rate which is as low as possible with significant increases. I hope, Mrs Lalieux, that you will agree that the bankruptcy of an insurance company does not play in favour of the policyholders either. Finally, I would like to stress explicitly that the Bank benefits from all decisions and operations taken in the context of its contribution to the stability of the financial system of the same degree of independence as that enshrined in Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is the answer we received when we contacted the National Bank of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u26	Minister, in fact, the purpose of this section is to protect consumers. However, I do not think that AXA and DKV have any problems. If we wanted to see the motivation of the National Bank, which has indeed been cancelled, it is because we believe that there is a problem between the alleged safeguard of an insurance company and the consumer who is the turkey of the farce following the decision of the National Bank. You did not answer me on this point. You also did not indicate why the National Bank is not transparent and does not hand over documents to consumer associations, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution, which provides for the transparency of administrative acts. Here, we have the impression that it has been in the direction of the two insurance companies, simply so that they capture as many people or families as possible – we know how DKV insurance works – and then go beyond indexing for sickness premiums. That's how it is. There are a lot of complaints against DKV. For years, consumer associations have been fighting against DKV. In this case, it is felt that the National Bank of Belgium has been in the direction of DKV so that it can continue to do what it wants on the Belgian market. It's a real problem. There is no administrative transparency. You didn't answer me and there's no motivation. I didn't hear anything, unless you told me that DKV was almost bankrupt. But that, minister, I did not hear it either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u27	No, Mrs. Lalieux. To be clear, elements were requested from the National Bank of Belgium. I was informed that we were in a situation governed by professional secrecy. There is, on the one hand, European legislation and, on the other, Belgian legislation. This information cannot be transmitted. We have checked the European regulations and the article I mentioned and, in the light of the current legislation, we are right not to give the information you have requested, even to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u28	But the Council of State overturned the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u29	Mr Lalieux, you have had your word and your reply, the Minister has answered, so I think the question has been dealt with, unless there is anything new? No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u30	There is no answer, but that is it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u31	An answer has been given, Mr Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament 28087) by Mrs Grovonius and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 28431 by Mrs Detiège were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u33	Minister, in 2016, BNP Paribas, citing low credit rates, had doubled the amount of its case fees in the event of a refinancing of a mortgage credit. There was an increase from €350 to €700, an increase that was not well received by consumers. From now on, a royal decree of 24 February 2017 sets ceilings on bank charges for mortgage credit: 500 euros for a mortgage credit with a real estate destination, 300 euros for a bridge credit and 800 euros for a mortgage credit coupled with a second credit agreement. If refinancing with the same lender takes place in the year, these charges shall be reduced by 50 %. Minister, I would like to know if you have any numerical indicators to assess how file fees have evolved before and after this measure? As far as I am concerned, BNP's case was exceptional: the file fees were generally between 250 and 500 euros before 1 April 2017. In addition, he said that the banks were now escaping behind the royal decree to justify large increases in file fees when a credit was granted. This trend would be particularly marked in terms of refinancing. What about it? Do you have objective data? Have you asked the Price Observatory to follow these developments? Do you intend to reduce the ceilings provided for in the Royal Decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u34	Mrs Lalieux, the Price Observatory strives to monitor the prices of goods and services that are part of the consumer basket in order to monitor and explain inflation. File fees for a mortgage credit with a real estate destination, a non-mortgage bridge credit and an internal refinancing are not part of the consumer basket. In addition, the Price Observatory has not yet had the opportunity to investigate this issue. An exploratory analysis of the available information showed to my administration that the file fees for a mortgage credit with a real estate destination, a non-mortgage bridge credit and an internal refinancing were not included in the bank's annual rate lists but in a separate prospectus. The SPF Economy currently has only the latest prospectuses of the four largest banks in Belgium. The old prospectuses are no longer available to the public. The exploratory analysis revealed that the four largest banks in Belgium will charge, as of January 9, 2019, a file fee for a mortgage credit with a real estate destination, a non-mortgage bridge credit and an internal refinancing. These charges are equivalent to the maximum fixed by the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017, with the exception of a bank that will apply a rate below the maximum prescribed by law for non-mortgage loan loans. In addition, I would like to point out that in 2016, in preparation for the Royal Decree, my administration collected a sample of the prospectuses and also obtained information from the Professional Credit Union. It was found that the calculation of the costs for the preparation of the files was very varied, that it lacked transparency and that it did not necessarily correspond to the actual costs. On this basis, I took the initiative to draw up a royal order setting flat rates with reasonable ceilings. The legislation also includes a number of transparency requirements when it is intended to conclude a new contract. For example, file fees must be mentioned in the credit offer and there is a standardized information sheet which must be disclosed prior to or at the latest at the same time as the credit offer. In the event of a modification of the existing contract, for example in the case of a new interest rate, the new offer will have to mention these charges. If you know of individual cases of lenders who would not comply with the Royal Order setting the flat rates, you are of course free to notify me, after which I will ask my inspection services to carry out a check and impose sanctions in case of infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u35	Thank you, Minister. I know what the Price Observatory can do, but I know you can ask for the analyses you want. If you ask him for an analysis of bank charges, he does it. I know the law by heart since we are somewhat at the initiative of it. Indeed, he can also work on insurance fees and bank charges if you ask him. In my question, I did not say that there were people who did not comply with the order. It is noted that, in relation to mortgages and bridge loans, the order is being complied with and that the order has reduced fees. However, for refinancing, you had set a maximum amount to limit what Paribas was doing, but that amount was much higher than the amount that all banks used at the time. This means that, thanks to the decrees, the banks fix everything to the ceiling. As I always say, banks never see the interest of the consumer. They increased the fees up to the ceiling you had set and, de facto, the refinancing costs of a mortgage credit increased for all consumers. That's why I talked about a comparative analysis with the previous costs. Do you know that the Observatory can ask banks for information on its own initiative? They are still aware of the costs they incurred in 2015. That's why I asked the Observatory to analyse the prices they were paying in 2015. So you could have lowered the maximum ceiling in your stop. But I understood that your logic wasn't that one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u36	Mrs Lalieux, first of all, I have no problem asking the Observatory to examine the situation. Then, according to my information, some banks had to lower their rates. Therefore, it is incorrect to claim that they have all carried out a tariff increase.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u37	That's why I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u38	That's why I'm going to ask the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u39	Madam President, the last word is for Parliament. I am not asking the minister to continue his response after my reply. As he replied, I have the right to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u40	Last line!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u41	So he doesn't have to intervene anymore. Minister, I ask you for objective figures, since only the press is talking about it. You have a tool to achieve this price objectivation: either the SPF Economy or the Price Observatory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u42	Deputy Prime Minister, as you know, on Monday, 3 December 2018, European Regulation 2018/302 aimed at countering unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination based on nationality, place of residence or place of establishment of customers in the internal market has entered into force. This regulation obliges all businesses available online to welcome European customers. It will therefore be possible for any EU consumer to compare prices and buy products throughout the European Union, without sites being able to refuse payment or redirect them to a national interface. Although this is a significant step forward, there are risks associated with the emergence of fake overseas sales sites that attempt to abuse the lack of consumer vigilance, which could also increase the cost of the product due to transaction or delivery costs. Mr Deputy Prime Minister, do you have any information on the level of compliance of Belgian online businesses with the requirements of the new European rules? Are information and awareness-raising measures envisaged to inform Belgian consumers of the risks associated with purchases made at foreign sites? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u43	Mr Calomne, the European Regulation dates from February 2018 and entered into force on 3 December 2018. It is therefore too early to have information on the level of compliance of Belgian online sales sites. Second, the Economy FPS informs and raises awareness throughout the year on the risks that consumers can face when buying online, both on Belgian and foreign websites. General campaigns on social networks as well as other, more specific ones, such as those on the occasion of fraud prevention, are regularly organised. As regards the practical consequences of the "Geoblocking" Regulation, both the website of the SPF Economy and that of the European Commission contain specific information and questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u44	I thank the minister for the elements of the answer that he was able to communicate and that I will read carefully when he is published.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament 28115 has apparently been withdrawn by colleague Lalieux. No? Two questions were put on the same subject, the bank charges. [[...]] [[: (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u46	I wanted to update the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u47	The last question will replace the first, I take it? Good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u48	Madam President, as she dated 18 December last year, I simply updated the question. Minister, a newspaper article dated December 17, 2018 listed the rate increases announced by the various banks for January 2019. As we know, for one of its free accounts, ING will now charge half a euro by withdrawing money from a distributor not part of its network. At Axa, some packs are increasing. At BNP, for an unchanged price, there is a question of offering fewer services. We see that the current trend is towards an increase in bank charges. Don't tell me again about the European average. It will be recalled that the average price of the classic view account with credit card increased by 6% from 2017 to 2018. We are talking about Belgium. Minister, I have four questions. First, comparability. On 14 December 2017, we voted to transpose a European directive on the comparability of bank charges. There is still a missing execution order to have the comparator of bank charges. It's important. This is about transparency. We've been asking for it for years. Today, the decree is still not there. What's the status of this job? What list of the most representative services related to a payment account have you selected? If the order is ready, you can send it to us via the committee secretariat. Secondly, it's free. You know my position, which has been the same for years. Nothing changes in yours. The gentleman's agreement dates back to 2004. After 15 years, I think it's time to shake him. That's legitimate. We know that more and more banks don't want to offer a basic account anymore. Are you ready today to review this gentleman's agreement? I believe that certain services should be completely free of charge, including account keeping, the provision of a debit card, withdrawal in euros to distributors. It seems to me that it's consumer money, it's not bank money. I do not understand why all these withdrawals and actions are not free. Did you put this discussion on the free of charge of certain acts on the agenda with Febelfin? What initiatives have you taken or intend to take on this? It is time to reform this gentleman's agreement. Third, the costs associated with payment incidents mainly affect disadvantaged people, as can be seen from the analysis of the credit-free platform. It is the most disadvantaged people who pay the most. They do not have the Internet and therefore use the distributor. They have to deal with the costs of overdrafts because they have to live with little - you are now also Minister of Equal Opportunities and the Fight against Poverty, so it has to talk to you - and because they also have a lot of unpaid residences and they make a lot of steps at the counter. It is therefore well demonstrated that it is the most impoverished people who have the highest bank charges. The others are entitled to many advantages when you can put 10,000 euros a week in a bank account. As a result, these banking incidents most often weigh on this precarised population. We cannot say that France has a left-wing government or that Bruno Lemaire, your alter ego, is left-wing, minister. However, last August and after meetings with the sector, it managed to cap the costs associated with payment incidents. I ask you to open negotiations with Febelfin to do as in France. Are you going to do it or not? Fourthly, I would like to return to the problem of coupled sales, which hold thousands of consumers captive. As you know, we had all these discussions when we passed the mortgage credit bill. The bank often conditions the granting of such credit to the possession of an account, to ancillary contracts, etc. I know this is illegal, but I also know that these practices are still ongoing and have the effect of reducing competition. In view of the announced increase in bank rates, do you intend to do anything to prevent consumers from being captive and riveted to an account they have not chosen but only own because of their mortgage credit? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux, I shall start with good news. The implementing order setting out the services related to a payment account has been finalized and will shortly be subject to the King's signature, after which it may be published. So it's done. For the rest, the Autorité des services et marchés financiers, FSMA, is responsible for developing and operating the comparator website. Before it is made available to consumers, the FSMA must collect from payment service providers all the information on the payment services required at this site and carry out the necessary tests. FSMA made it clear to me that the website would be available to the public at the end of February. All arrangements for collaboration between FSMA and payment service providers are provided for in a FSMA regulation, in order to allow the finalization of this site. The Royal Decree approving these regulations will also be subject to the King's signature. The intention is to publish both orders on the same date. As I have pointed out several times in my answers to your questions, a renegotiation of the gentleman's agreement is not on the agenda, but I am listening. I was told that there were no big problems; why then renegotiate this gentleman's agreement? But I am listening to you and I take note of all the comments and arguments you have made. I can also tell you that as part of the fight against over-indebtedness, a basic banking service has been set up in Belgium. On the basis of the analysis of the tariffs of the four largest banks in Belgium, the Price Observatory calculated, for example, that a withdrawal at the counter costs between EUR 0.35 and EUR 1.50 and a transaction refused for insufficient balance between EUR 4.50 and EUR 7.26. By comparison, in France, the price of an operating incident is up to no less than 20 euros and even up to 50 euros for a rejected cheque for failure to provide. Thus, indeed, in August 2018, Bruno Le Maire expressed his willingness to see banks cap on bank charges at EUR 200 per year for modest households, but so far, to my knowledge, there have been no concrete measures for effective implementation. Combining a mortgage credit agreement with another financial product in a bundled offer may indeed bring benefits to consumers, as consumers could benefit from a reduction. In order not to affect bank mobility or consumers' ability to make informed choices, tied selling has been prohibited and the components of the bundled offer must be able to be purchased separately. In this way, the consumer is free to opt either for the credit agreement alone or for the bundled offer with an advantageous reduction. If he then considers it useful to open a view account with another bank that will provide a higher gain than the discount, he will be able to do so thanks to bank mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u50	Minister, thank you. I hope the site will be on-line at the end of February. It's important. Free time is not on the agenda. The base account should be completely free of charge, as should some transactions. I heard you didn't want to move forward, but it seems to me that an increase in basic banking charges of 6% between 2017 and 2018 is very high compared to the price of life. There is no reason, because there are fewer and fewer services, fewer and fewer ticket distributors and agencies. So there are fewer services and they cost more. This is not a good way to act on the part of the banks. I will never agree with you and I understand that this government will not be affected by a 15-year agreement. As far as payment charges and incidents are concerned, 7.20 euros is huge. If we add the cost of collection and the cost of bailiffs, we attack the most impoverished population. It is also necessary to think about banking dynamics in relation to certain types of population, their attitudes and difficulties. On payment incidents, you should start negotiations or think about them – we do – as part of a government agreement. It's fundamental. As for coupled sales, it is known that it is prohibited to bind products and that everything must be sold individually. I would like the SPF Economy or FSMA (depending on mortgage credit skills) to do some mystery shopping and check that you can actually have the same benefits if you don't stay in the bank. I don't believe it for a second because it has always been so. This is not your responsibility. With all the tools available to the SPF, it would be time to make a clear study that would verify compliance with the law passed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u51	Minister, the first payment reminder is billed expensive by energy suppliers, often in a dominant position vis-à-vis consumers. Few consumers consult the tariffs and conditions offered by different suppliers. The most informed consumers do this, but not the most disadvantaged. It would therefore be important for this first reminder to be free, as in other sectors. Minister, do you intend to take action on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u52	Minister, over the past few months, a number of press releases have taken place concerning the free of charge of the first reminder of payment and the limitation of collection costs. This information was not always clear or always accurate, which is why it seems important to take stock. I quote: "As of July 1, 2018, the first reminder sent after an unpaid invoice will always be free. In addition, recovery costs may no longer exceed 15 % of the amount of the invoice." In fact, it appears that the first reminder was free of charge only for telecom invoices. Extending it to other debts is a question to ask, but, if I understand correctly, nothing is acquired. As for the limitation of collection costs, that is a good measure, but I have not seen any bill pass to Parliament. I recall that at the beginning of the legislature, the majority had rejected a PS bill to reform the 2002 law on amicable recovery of consumer debts. The purpose of the proposal was to regulate the recall deadlines, to cap the recall costs to a maximum of 150% of the basic debt and to subject the bailiffs to the control of the Economy FPS. In response to a parliamentary question in 2018, you wrote: "I am preparing a series of proposals to remedy these problems, among other things by capping collection costs amicably and empowering the Economic Inspectorate to also monitor bailiffs." This bill that you are preparing is the same as what was rejected in committee by your political group and the others! I do not understand very well about logic and collaboration. Finally, it is the whole content of our bill that is taken up in the way of political communication. However, have any proposals or projects been submitted or drafted? In any case, we didn't see them. Will this be done before the dissolution of the House? Could you clarify the various measures taken and those that you would still like to carry out?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I believe that cross-sectoral rules should be laid down. Such uniformity benefits consumers as well as businesses that are often active in several areas. Secondly, consultations have already taken place between different stakeholders. Thirdly, they are measures within the framework of consumer protection, which is a federal responsibility. Fourthly, as I have already said, consultations with several stakeholders have already taken place, including with representatives of businesses and the middle classes. The principle remains that a debt must be honoured. The various measures relating to the payment of the invoice which I consider useful can contribute to the reduction in the number of late payments, which certainly benefits companies. Finally, my bill is ready. I ask Parliament to take an initiative in this area. I make my bill available to you to discuss it here and to approve it, because it is well prepared. I hope that, despite the fact that the government is in day-to-day business, Parliament will have time to discuss and approve it because it is very useful. I am convinced that it is possible to approve and finalize it here before 15 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u54	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. I remember your bill in particular, because it is essential to finalize it before the end of the legislature. In any case, my group is ready to examine it in order to move forward with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u55	Minister, thank you. If you have drafted a bill, you can share it with Parliament. I'm sure we'd be happy to turn it into a bill, especially if it contains ideas that you rejected before. As we arrived at the end of the legislature, I would like to tell you that we have introduced bills. As a matter of principle, however, the government has always refused to work on the basis of opposition texts. Now that the government is in day-to-day business, he agrees, if only to amend them. All this for a minister to copy! I do not consider this to be good parliamentary work or a sign of good cooperation. We have only experienced this situation with this government. Indeed, your predecessor, Mr Vande Lanotte, had been working with Parliament all the time. This has not been your case; and I regret it, because it is lost time. If you want to make up for this delay, you must be aware of the content of your bill and be able to work on it. In other words, it must not be taken or left. This does not correspond to the nature of parliamentary work. Three successive bills were rejected by the former majority. It is a pleasure for us to work on your bill, and it is enough for you to pass it on to Parliament. I hope that your group – worthyly represented by the chairman of this committee – will agree to have it signed. Indeed, I will come back to that in my last question, the collaboration on the right to be forgotten leaves something to be desired. In short, I am prepared to work on your bill if it is open and can be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u56	There will be a lot of work here in the coming weeks!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u57	I hope so!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u58	This is no problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u59	For no one, colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u60	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the new single-wheel, hoverboard, gyropod and other electric scooters are increasingly successful among citizens. In this respect, a study published by the Belgian Institute for Road Safety (IBSR) has made it possible to better identify these forms of mobility: the average age of users is between 36 and 49 years, for a weekly distance between 50 and 90 km. In addition, half of the users of these new devices are not always aware of the insurance obligations, i.e. the need for civil liability insurance (CC) if the maximum speed concerned is 18 km/hour. In this context, I have had the opportunity to question your colleague, the Minister for Mobility, on the question of the supervision of the use of new mobility devices. He shared with me the fact that the European vehicle regulations exclude these new mobility devices from its scope and consider them to be machines that fall under your jurisdiction. As a result, the Minister of Mobility informed me that a working group had been set up in collaboration with the SPF Economy to study the issue. This group was supposed to meet after the summer. Minister, what is the state of play in thinking about the management of new mobility devices? What is the current status of the work of the working group in this regard? What recommendations, if any, have been made to you at this stage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calomne, first of all, I would like to draw your attention, if necessary, to the fact that the European rules on mobility and RC insurance for motor vehicles are completely independent of each other. In other words, any criteria and distinctions for the application of the regulations relating to registration, the Road Traffic Code, etc. are not relevant with respect to the CR auto insurance obligation. As a result, the working group I initiated focused only on the assurance aspect. This has resulted in a bill that exempts some of these vehicles from the RC auto insurance obligation and gives drivers the status of low-user of vehicles exempt from the insurance obligation. Last week, I received the opinion of the Council of State and, as with other matters and projects, I will forward the text of the draft to Parliament. For the fifth time this afternoon, I count on Parliament and on you, Mr Calomne, to approve it again before 15 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will pay attention to the project that will be tabled. I hope it will be soon, since you have just received the opinion of the Council of State. We may, if necessary, vote on it before the dissolution of the Chambers. We will, of course, remain attentive to this text in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u63	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 28157 lapses, as he is not present and has not notified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u64	Chairperson: Karine Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u65	Deputy Prime Minister, the announcement of a fire that took place in premises hosting games, known as escape rooms, in Poland, unfortunately killing several teenage girls, has sparked recent news. As you know, this kind of fun activity is to place players in isolated and closed rooms, within which they have to solve a number of puzzles to escape and win the game. Notwithstanding the ongoing investigation into the drama mentioned and the obvious safety standards prevailing, in particular in the field of fire prevention and control, the proliferation of escape room game signs raises the question of a possible strengthening of the existing safety arrangements. In the event of a fire or any other form of danger such as flooding or gas leaks, these closed spaces can quickly become dangerous for consumers. So could you tell me whether your services have been entrusted with carrying out specific controls on this type of establishment in our country, in close consultation with the other levels of government and the public bodies concerned? Is there currently an open thought to consider ways of securing the premises of these signs, which are particularly successful with the younger generation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u66	Colleagues, Mr Calomne, the escape rooms must meet the general security obligation imposed by the Code of Economic Law in its book IX, on the safety of products and services. However, there are no specific rules on fire safety. To date, my administration has not received complaints about this type of facility, nor has it conducted any checks. If we were to have evidence of a concern, we could obviously launch controls. In the case of buildings occupied by persons, the requirements of the Welfare Act must be complied with, as well as the general regulations for protection at work, which impose certain obligations on the employer with regard to fire prevention, evacuation, etc. In addition, the federal basic fire safety standards of the Royal Decree of 7 July 1994 are also applicable to all categories of new buildings, regardless of their destination. This is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. As you know very well, it is up to the mayor to ask the firefighters to carry out inspections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u67	Minister, thank you. I understand that there have been no complaints or problems in our country with regard to these places. It is true, however, that what happened in a country of the European Union has challenged me and the population. This new type of game raises questions. As you said, the mayors also have a responsibility in this matter. All public authorities must pay attention to these issues. Especially since, as I pointed out, these games have some success with the younger generation, which may sometimes be less vigilant about security issues. We must pay particular attention to this. I am very pleased that there is no problem in our country, but unfortunately this could still happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u68	Madam President, Minister, the real estate sector is often the subject of strong criticism of the film's practices in the calculation of surfaces. Since there are no clear standards, volumetrics sometimes have certain surface elements, or do not incorporate them, thus giving estimates a highly random character in sales or rental processes. When asked about this, you have stated in the press that you have instructed your services to conduct an in-depth investigation into this problem and, therefore, to propose possible solutions. Minister, knowing that part of the problem falls within the jurisdiction of the Regions, what instructions have been given to your services? What are the objectives of the survey? When are its results expected? Regardless of these results, have some measures already been identified as priorities at this stage? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u69	Madam President, dear colleague, I have entrusted my administration with the task of analysing in more detail the problem of the indication of the film in real estate in order to draw up an overview of it. It will check whether the current legislation on unfair commercial practices is sufficient to intervene in such cases. I await the results of the legal framework analysis for April 2019. This analysis will determine the steps to be taken to ensure that the successful buyer receives the correct information in a transparent manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u71	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, you recently announced your wish to promote a right to be forgotten in the insurance sector. In practical terms, it would be a matter of developing a legal framework that would prevent insurers from refusing to enter into contracts, at least under normal conditions, with persons who have been the victims of a serious illness in the past and who have since been cured. This announcement echoes urgent requests from the voluntary sector, which regularly refers to the case of France, where legislation exists on this issue, in order to eliminate any risk of penalisation of persons due to a previous illness. Last November, you also told Parliament that you had drawn on French legislation in this area in order to draw up the legal framework in question, which is why I would like to take stock with you. Minister, what are the outlines of the announced project? What is the current state of affairs? What is the expected deadline for submitting this file? What is the status of consultation on this issue with the representation of insurers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u72	Minister, I am completing Mr Calomne's question, because the file has moved forward. Indeed, in the Committee on the Economy on 22 January, I introduced the bill to reform the Partyka-Lalieux law, which had been tabled before the government fell. This bill, introduced in September 2018, aims to facilitate access to outstanding balance insurance and is modelled on the French law to which Mr Calomne refers. At that time – which is why I would be talking about cooperation and cooperation, minister, virtues that are not usually part of this commission, for this subject in any case – the CD&V asked to postpone discussion of this bill introduced since September to announce the tabling of its own bill, which is, I suppose, your bill since it was said that it was the bill that was being developed by the firm following several technical opinions. I ask you what this bill contains because it will still not be taken into consideration this Thursday. It's starting to date. Will it be taken into consideration, otherwise I doubt that the bill was drafted? What actors have been involved, and what do I join Mr Calomne in? Above all, the secretariat has asked your office, Minister, to provide us with all the opinions you have requested from the stakeholders concerned. I wonder why they have not yet reached the secretariat since, according to your statements in the press, everything was ready. I hope it wasn't just communication and the bill is actually ready.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u73	Ma'am, I can tell you everything is ready. I know you've worked on the same subject in the past. We also studied the projects you introduced. I hope that this is not a small game between parties and that we will find as soon as possible a majority to approve this text. I have done my best to draft a sustainable bill, which in the meantime became a proposal, and which contains all the elements, including technical ones, to solve these problems. I hope we can discuss this as soon as possible. I'll deliver all the items to you. Opinions are not formal opinions. There were meetings with organizations. I have asked for reactions and very concrete elements. I'll give you all the information. The project I initiated follows a proposal made by the patient and consumer associations and by the Commission for Insurance in respect of balance insurance which is still due. This proposal, like many others, is based on French legislation known as the AERAS Convention (to ensure and borrow with an aggravated health risk). At present, many citizens find it difficult to take out any remaining balance insurance due to the existence of medical history. However, these are no longer relevant because of the long period since the healing of these people. I therefore wish to remedy this situation. With regard to a project that really interests me - I am not the only one - I took care to consult closely with the various stakeholders such as Unia, Assuralia, Kom op tegen Kanker and the European Organisation for Cancer Research and Treatment. I had the opportunity to meet these parties and, after an open and constructive discussion with them, the texts were reworked. The proposal is broadly supported by the stakeholders mentioned. The bill applies to two types of outstanding balance insurance. A first type concerns the balance insurances that are still due from a candidate policyholder to guarantee the repayment of a mortgage credit that relates to the home. A second type concerns the balance-of-payment insurances that are still due from a candidate policyholder to guarantee the repayment of a professional credit. Persons with cancer must always report their medical history to their insurance if they apply for outstanding balance insurance. However, at the end of a 10-year period, the insurer may no longer take this into account in its risk assessment. The responsibility to assess whether a pathology is still relevant and can be taken into account, in accordance with the legal framework, rests with the insurer and not with the policyholder. The King may adjust the time frame according to age categories and/or types of cancer conditions. The project also introduces the possibility for the King to set up a reference grid. This reference grid lists a series of chronic cancer pathologies which the insured candidate must report to his insurer but which may, under certain ancillary conditions, be insured after a specified period without or subject to a fixed surcharge. In view of the fact that the right to be forgotten will be recognised according to the type of pathology and the type of contract, it can only apply to new contracts. The insurance-specific actuarial technique in particular does not allow its application to existing contracts. However, the consumer can always terminate his contract and conclude a new one. However, I will do everything in my power to implement this initiative. As I said, Madam President, I hope that I will be able to communicate to you as soon as possible, not formal opinions, because that is not the case, but reactions. At my meetings with the organizations I mentioned, they were not very enthusiastic. I am convinced that the draft is also technically well drafted, but it is up to the committee to discuss it and improve it if necessary. For my part, and I am not the only one to think so, I hope that we will be able to conclude this discussion and approve this bill because many people are counting on me. In a day-to-day government, it's not impossible, but it's now up to you to finalize it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that a text incorporating a number of stakeholder comments will soon be forwarded to Parliament. The said parties therefore accede to the draft. As far as we are concerned, we will be attentive to the development of this dossier. Indeed, as you have indicated, this concerns many of the citizens who are waiting. This question relates to the daily lives of many of our fellow citizens. It would therefore be interesting if this text could be discussed and, if necessary, voted in this Parliament in the weeks remaining.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u75	Minister, thank you for your answer. There was a way to work fast. It was enough to submit amendments to a bill that had already been considered and put on the agenda. That would have been an elegant and fast way to work on this issue last week, Minister. And your group could have tabled a series of amendments. When we know that there was a bill on the table that reflects the contours to which you referred and is not entirely absurd, it would have been the easiest, fastest way to work. But I understood that the CD&V wanted to make it look like it was the first party to file a text on the subject, which I find very unsophisticated. Indeed, your party does not want to work on the proposal on the table. However, you could have cut down your bill and tabled amendments. But he doesn't want to. In doing so, we lose useful weeks for all those people who are waiting not for publicity effects but for a law. That being said, we will work effectively and effectively on the proposal that will be tabled and we will table amendments, if necessary. If I understand you correctly, you do not have a formal written opinion, but you intend to send the committee a report on the exchanges you have had. What exactly is this? It seems that we should not ask for a formal opinion since you have already consulted. What exactly can you send to the commission? Consideration must be given to the fact that there is a request from other groups, including the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u76	Madam, let me tell you that, for me, the colour of the cat is not very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u77	At least not for your group!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u78	I understand that it is necessary to take into account the time required for the translation of texts, etc. I therefore agree to send the text today or tomorrow. This will allow you to learn about the topics for discussion. I am convinced that it is more effective to work on the project because many of the technical elements that have been "good" written are inserted in it. For me, the essential thing is – as you said – to work as quickly as possible and to approve the project. Knowing which party will sign – CD&V or PS – is not the subject of the discussion; at least I hope so. Then I indicated that we had held several meetings at my office. The opinions I have received are not of a formal nature. At that time, all organizations had expressed their agreement on the various aspects of the project. I understand that now the N-VA has asked for formal opinions. If it is to delay the project, it is not correct. I hope that we can reach a consensus. You have already submitted some proposals. In my opinion, the most important thing is that we approve the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u79	Me too. I would like you to pass on to the committee the names of the people you met.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u80	I can answer you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u81	The secretariat of the commission has sent a letter to your firm for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u82	We'll send you a summary of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u83	That would be wise. Otherwise, blockages will be produced by some, who will then begin to ask for official advice. I heard him in committee. My goal is to speed up the file. I would remind you that the bill has not yet been taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u84	All right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1023x.u85	Questions No 28354 and No 28496 by Mrs Smaers, No 28441 by Mr Smaers. Van Hecke and Mr Janssen's No 28451 are transformed into a written question. My own question about the single price of the book, No 28420, has become irrelevant, since the Cooperation Agreement has in the meantime been voted on.
