ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u1	Question No 29104 by Mr Vanden Burre is transformed into a written question. Questions Nos 29170 and 29171 by Mrs Pas are also transformed into written questions. Mr Thiéry asked to turn his question No. 29270 into a written question and would like me to hand over the answer to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u2	Mr President, I do not regret having come in advance! Minister, on February 28, 2013, Parliament passed a law reforming disability regimes and introducing a new protection status, consistent with human dignity. The spirit of the law is very clear: it is a matter of keeping to the maximum the participation of the person in his or her own life and decisions, by designating a relative of the family preferentially to accompany him or her. In some cases, the law provides for the appointment of a director who manages either the property or the person or both, but can never intervene in matters of a strictly personal nature. This administrator may be a family member or an outside person. In this case, the conditions of remuneration of the administrator are as follows: 3% of current income, supplemented by administrative costs and a fee for a series of extraordinary acts relating to benefits arising out of day-to-day management. There is no legal classification of the amounts relating to these extraordinary acts, and the justice of the peace decides whether the administrator will be paid the lump sum or honorarium. As a result, families affected by these situations, as well as external administrators, can hardly get an idea of the cost of the external administration decision. Minister, do you have up-to-date figures on the number of directors registered today and indications of the profession and type of directors? When they are not a lawyer or notary, what is their training or profession? Does the jurisprudence reveal any particular difficulties in the remuneration of outside directors, particularly in the case of poor families? With regard to the practices of remuneration for extraordinary acts, were there variations between judges and judicial cantons, and what were they, if any? Does the establishment of a precise nomenclature and of conditions concerning the honorary remuneration or the lump sum of extraordinary acts seem to you to be a possible and interesting way of enabling the persons concerned to know what they are involved in this type of procedure? If not, what other avenues could you propose or consider?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u3	Mr.President, Ms.Waterschoot, the latest figures that were communicated to me in October 2018 by the Interior FPS indicate the appointment of 61,151 administrators. Of these, 36,690 are directors of property, 2,573 are directors of the person and 21,888 are both directors of the person and property. On the other hand, they do not indicate their profession or their quality. I am not aware of any case law in which there would be problems with pay or compensation for exceptional duties performed, particularly in the case of poor families. I am aware, however, that the administrator's fees may be a source of abuse, but in this case there are legal mechanisms for monitoring and sanctioning by the justice of the peace. In addition, my administration is in the process of developing a draft Royal Order that will specify the nature of the revenue to be taken into account in calculating the administrator's remuneration. Similarly, the Panel will determine the costs that may be reimbursed on a lump-sum basis and the method of calculating the compensation for these costs. Finally, this project will indicate what exceptional duties are and how compensation for them is assessed. The draft Order has already been referred to a number of bodies for advice, but these consultations have not yet been completed and must continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u4	Minister, thank you. I'm very happy to know that you're working on this royal decree. I think it is indeed useful to clarify things and to provide a clearer legal framework. I do not know if an assessment of the law is planned, but it would seem to me appropriate for a number of reasons, notably because recourse costs are difficult to estimate and this creates difficulties for families and administrators and is likely to generate a number of applications from justices of the peace. The trustees must decide each time on a request for an extraordinary act and determine whether the administrator will be paid the lump sum or at a fee and determine which ones. If I understand correctly, your royal decree will provide answers to this, which is positive. On the other hand, the 3% remuneration on current income can, when the income of the protected person is low, put the external directors in a difficult position. If my calculations are correct, for a pension of 1,200 euros, for example, the administrator would be paid 36 euros gross. One wonders how these people can do good work with such amounts. Finally, with regard to the professions of directors, I understand that there is no indication. Perhaps it would be interesting to make progress in this direction. We have just voted in this Parliament on a law of assent which organises the coherence of judicial protection measures between Member States of the European Union, for example for persons of Belgian nationality who would move to Spain while being under judicial protection. The external administrators who will manage these persons will therefore be confronted with different national laws from several countries. To what extent can they have the competence to do so? For me, this raises the question of training and perhaps the professional requirements of those who wish to become external administrators. With regard to case law, documents that I have been able to consult, including studies by lawyers from the University of Namur, it seems that in some cantons, it is considered that everything related to the management of estates and shares is part of the day-to-day management, while in other cantons, this is not the case. It is easy to imagine the amounts that can be involved when the inheritance is raised. That is why I consider it highly desirable that a nomenclature be adopted. I hope that your royal decree can answer this question and that it will be approved before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u5	Question No 29143 by Mr Terwingen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u6	Minister, the takeover of the Great Mosque stirs the lusts and is the subject of intense competition between at least 3 ASBLs (the Islamic and Cultural Center of Belgium, the Great Mosque of the Fiftieth Anniversary, the Faithful of the Great Mosque) and the Muslim Executive of Belgium. Minister, I am very committed to ensuring that the activities of the Great Mosque can be resumed in a peaceful manner. This emblematic place of the Muslim community must respect the recommendations of our committee of inquiry: the promotion of living together, openness to all the sensitivities and currents of Islam, the end of foreign control and financing, the centre of gravity located in Belgium. Minister, the transfer took place. I'd like to take stock with you. How'd that transfer go? I imagine you have received a lot of nominations for the resumption of the Great Mosque. How did you make your decisions? What is the status of the management of this Great Mosque today? I understood that there was provisional management today. What would be the possible formula for final management?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u7	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the government has followed up on recommendation 70 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry which states that "the purpose of the termination would not be to prevent the Muslim community from having an emblematic place of worship but, on the contrary, to pursue this objective by signing a new convention with a new entity which would involve the community of the faithful currently attending the GMB, certainly the EMB (the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium), but also all the sensitivities and currents characterising Islam and the Muslims of Belgium", by deciding, at the Council of Ministers on 16 March 2018, that a technical coordination ASBL will be responsible for the technical, administrative and financial management of the common parts of the whole complex of the Great Mosque, as well as the submission of the application for approval of the Great Mosque to the Brussels-Capital Region. The ASBL will consist of representatives from the various parts of the new structure of the Great Mosque, namely representatives of the local religious community, the EMB, the institution of formation of imams and representatives from an institution of Islamic culture. Technical experts will be able to assist them. Some non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have demonstrated their contribution to the management of the Great Mosque. The Belgian Muslim Executive, a representative body recognized for Islamic worship, is making every effort to establish the record of recognition, in accordance with the Brussels Ordinance of 29 June 2006 on the organization and functioning of Islamic worship, which provides that "the government of the Brussels-Capital Region shall recognize Islamic communities on the proposal of the representative body of Islamic worship recognized by the federal authorities". The SPF Justice did not receive an application from ASBL for the resumption of the Great Mosque, since this did not fall within its remit, but came within the remit of the representative body, which maintains a dialogue with the local community. On the other hand, on 18 and 27 March, my cabinet and a representative of the Brussels Minister-President welcomed members of an interim committee currently in the process of being set up, with a view to discussing the tasks assigned to such a committee and explaining the expectations of the Belgian State with regard to the local community of the Great Mosque - one of them relating to its recognition. A third meeting will be held this evening to ensure the implementation of a transparent revenue and expenditure management system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u8	Minister, thank you. We are gradually arriving at the epilogue of a dossier which is extremely important. We knew that there was a link between Saudi Arabia and the Great Mosque and that Wahhabi Islam spread through the World Islamic League by opposing our living together and our values, as has been demonstrated on many occasions. It has also been established that this tendency may encourage some people to fight more violently, in the form of a jihad. I am pleased that a formula now involves several actors, which you have cited. I am convinced that we are going to be appeased and that the recommendations of our Committee of Inquiry can be implemented gradually. To this end, I count on you to ensure that everything takes place in the utmost serenity, so that this place can be peacefully dedicated to Muslim worship, as part of the integration of all religions and religions recognized in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u9	Minister, the assessment of the workload of the courts is fundamental in determining the human, financial and material means to be given to them. However, the current workload assessment method is essentially based on an average of inputs and outputs, i.e. incoming and outgoing cases, based on the annual statistics made available by the College of Courts and Courts, while these statistics do not take into account criteria such as the greater or lesser complexity of cases to be dealt with, administrative management, management status, working methods, etc. The input also fails to take into account the backlog of cases, which still weighs on the workload of our courts and tribunals. Many of us are therefore calling for the judicial system to be equipped with tools to assess the workload and not just quantitative tools. This assessment should be based on specific criteria (population growth, number of citations, hours worked, complexity of cases, etc.).), as well as an assessment of the practical effects of recent laws on litigation (sliding of cases from one jurisdiction to another, etc.).). In an electoral debate in which several members of the Justice Commission participated, including our committee chair, several representatives of the judiciary have argued that workload assessment reports have been sent to you by the various jurisdictions in the country and that they are available online both in the House and in the Senate. However, nothing appears on the website of the Federal Parliament or on the website of the College of Courts and Courts. The latter also states that "this year, with the agreement of the College, the support service of the College will not publish statistics", so that the College will not ask the heads of bodies "to collect and/or verify their activity statistics of the past year". The site adds: "We want to give priority to the further development of high-quality statistics for all bodies. We will resume the publication of the annual statistics as of next year, retroactively, including the 2018 data." It does not prevent, Mr Minister, that heads of bodies claim to have provided you with figures which, in some of your replies in committee, have been mentioned. Therefore, could you let me know if you have any recent workload reports? Could you tell me what is the status of the procedure for drawing up rules for counting common to the courts, so that the workload can be assessed according to the same criteria in all the boroughs and in each degree of jurisdiction? When will court and court statistics be republished?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u10	Mrs Caprasse, as Minister of Justice, I am, like you, in favour of a fair and objective distribution of resources between courts and prosecutors in accordance with actual and present needs. In the framework agreement on future management autonomy concluded in July 2018, the College of Courts and Courts undertook to develop an allocation model which will define, before each transfer of powers, the method of allocating the budget allocated to the College: on the one hand, for the organisation of the judiciary sitting by allocating the resources between courts and tribunals and, on the other hand, for the College itself and its support service. The allocation model will take into account solidarity, workload and speed of processing. It will be based on needs determined according to the output objectives as set out in the management contract. These output objectives will be formulated on the basis of the production of judicial decisions, journey times and quality. The allocation model should also allow for the comparability of the workload between courts of the same type and between different types of courts in order to be able to assess this burden according to the same criteria in all districts and in each level of proceedings. Apart from these elements, I do not have a recent workload report unless the representatives refer to the report that the Permanent Office of Statistics and Workload Measurement (BPSM) of the College of Courts and Courts had prepared on the workload of courts and tribunals between 2014 and 21016. The college described it as a "zero-measure" ratio and felt that "there was no direct adjustment to managers in the sense that a court would be entitled to X additional full-time equivalents or, conversely, should separate from X full-time equivalents". In addition, some reports had not been validated. Like you, I deeply regret the decision of the College of Courts and Courts not to publish statistics for 2018 in 2019, but to communicate them in the course of 2020 in conjunction with those of 2019. Since 1999, the statistics have been published annually, initially by the Justice FPS and, since 2008, by the headquarters itself via the BPSM. Justice cannot remain deaf in the face of the justified demand for transparency in its work emanating from society. Since justice needs clear statistics, I have proposed to the College of Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions that, together with the FPS Justice, a joint business intelligence body be set up to develop statistics and other correct data needed by the three partners to ensure the policy and management of the judicial organization.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. The finding is general. We're late for everything about justice. In any case, it is regrettable that there is no recent report. You're talking about a common body. We'll follow that. It'll probably be for the next legislature. We will instruct our future parliamentarians, certainly young people who will be very motivated, to follow up on all matters concerning our justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u12	Minister, we often hear that there are difficulties in finding interpreters. Years ago, we introduced the national register of interpreters, but it does not appear to be an obvious way of operationalising this. The difficulties for police and justice to find an interpreter seem to persist. I was told that one organisation has developed its own platform, TALKIN, which makes the platform available to both the police and the Justice Department. I am told that it is a very interesting tool, as at the moment all the other possibilities are less accessible. I thought I understood that the police had access to the national register, but that does not appear to be the case. Only Justice would have access, while TALKIN would be made available to police and justice. As a result, the police and justice services use TALKIN because they consider it user-friendly. I just heard that some services want to remove the existing tool of the national register from their computer from Justice because they now have TALKIN. Minister, I would like to ask you if you are aware of this initiative, but I have received further information in the meantime. I was very specifically told that it is indeed an initiative of one organisation, which in itself is not bad. That organisation is asking for a contribution to the people to be included, which seems logical to me. This is a contribution which is in addition to the contribution requested to be entered in the national register. They are also concerned that the Internet platform will be used by its offer instead of the national register, without having to be checked in the same way. Minister, are you aware of the initiative? How can work be done in an easily accessible way, so that the quality of the interpreters' register can be guaranteed? That guarantee is not so self-evident for the internet platform TALKIN. In addition, the platform should be easily accessible and user-friendly for Justice and the police. In this way, it can contribute to the search of both the police and the judiciary for interpreters, as required by procedures or interrogations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u13	Mrs Becq, the web application TALKIN is known to me. This is a fine initiative from the translators and interpreters sector. In particular, the fact that the application indicates the availability of translators and interpreters is an added value. However, it does not eliminate the need for the national register of legal experts, translators, interpreters and translators. The final national register will contain all the translators who are officially sworn in, will be screened in the future and will have to provide proof of permanent training and legal knowledge. In order to make the national register fully operational, additional legislative adjustments were needed, some of which were included in the legislative proposal laying down various provisions on the computerisation of justice and the modernisation of the statute of judges in business cases. This bill was passed in committee last week. In the meantime, there is already cooperation with the services of the national register allowing the TALKIN web application to identify who is included in the provisional national register. Following the adoption of the legislative proposal in plenary, my administration, together with the sector, will be able to examine where and how further cooperation is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. When I hear it like that, I think TALKIN is an interesting tool. I would just like to ask you to ensure that this is done in conjunction with the three translator-interpreting organisations. There must be access for everyone, because if one has to pay extra to be included, some will have problems with it. I hear there are police forces already saying that they are not going to look at that national register anymore and that they are only going to the TALKIN platform. This is much easier in terms of availability, but this also means that a number of existing interpreters are excluded, either because they do not know it or because they belong to another organisation. It remains an additional threshold if one has to pay to register, even if the platform is accessible to everyone, a threshold that we did not want. I would therefore ask you to ensure that everything goes in the right direction, otherwise the scope of the services will be extended to those who are members of the organisation that offers the platform, or are willing to pay extra for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1077x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lambrecht's 29139 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 29267 by Mrs Fonck is also converted into a written question.
