ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schlitz has converted 27687 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u2	Minister, according to the reports, at the beginning of this year the National Police College relaxed the promotion procedure for Chief Commissioner because too few candidates had been found suitable. In this way, weak participants were able to move on to the next round. At the end of 2017, the federal police placed a vacancy for a promotional training as chief commissioner. There were 100 places vacant. According to the Royal Decree of 9 October 2017, a candidate had to reach at least 60% in order to pass the test. Apparently, out of the 150 participants, only 20 were successful. Instead of registering a new vacancy, it was apparently decided to revise the results of the knowledge test. Participants were not required to achieve 60%, but 60% of the best performing candidate. The minimum score was therefore not 90/150 but 66/150. Some candidates would have appealed to the Council of State. The hearing officer would have indicated in his opinion that the decision to relax the rules would be contrary to public policy and would have to be destroyed. Federal police confirm that the National Police Academy has modified the results. It claims that it has received the approval of the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. Your cabinet does not mind the adjustment of these results. It is particularly important that the test of knowledge has been conducted correctly and fairly. In connection with this, I would like to ask the following questions. Can you confirm the story that the procedure was modified to allow sufficient candidates to succeed in filling the public vacancies? Do you recognise that this derogates from the Royal Decree of October 2017? Why didn't a new selection procedure be organised? Is it true that the hearing officer stated in his opinion that the decision to relax the rules is contrary to public policy and must be destroyed? Will this advice be followed? Do you share the view of Open Vld that chief directors should have a minimum level of knowledge and thus achieve at least 60% on the knowledge test? If a derogation is made, what is the point of setting a lower limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u3	Mrs De Crom, there is no reason to organise a new selection procedure for the executive licence. Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 9 October 2017 provides that the candidate who has obtained at least 60% is laureate of the knowledge test. That provision has been complied with. All candidates participating in the knowledge test were subject to the same correction coefficient. There is therefore no discrimination between candidates. Moreover, the classification remained unchanged after application of the correction coefficient. After application, only those candidates who achieved a minimum of 60% were successful. The minimum standard has proved its worth. I can also inform you that the Council of State has already delivered a number of judgments in this area, in particular with regard to the application of the correction coefficient to the inadmissibility of the actions brought. In this respect, the Council states, inter alia, that "in so far as the applicant considers that it is still possible to derive an interest from the fact that the contested decision must be set aside because the decision to apply a correction coefficient, whatever, conflicts with Article 12 of the Royal Decree of 12 October 2006, as amended by the amending decision of 9 October 2017, he or she cannot gain any benefit from the destruction of that decision on his own account. In that case, he also does not obtain the 60% required for the knowledge test, so that he or she remains unfit." In the meantime, the Federal Police Legal Service has again received three petitions to suspend and annul the new recovery decisions on non-beats for the knowledge test and the decision to apply the correction coefficient of 25 September 2018. Those procedures are still ongoing. No auditor's report has yet been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u5	Minister, my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke has already asked you about this unfortunate event ten days ago. Nevertheless, I maintained my question. Indeed, like other colleagues here, I do not think that you have responded at all. In the face of this non-response, I'm coming back to you. On 1 October 2018, some 20 migrants on a train were arrested and handcuffed by law enforcement officials at Landen station. A citizen and passerby, Diego Dumont, filmed the scene with his smartphone. His video toured social networks at the time. That's when the police asked Mr. Dumont to stop filming. He refuses, arguing that he has the right to film a police intervention in a public space. As a result, he is grounded, deprived of liberty and can be seen on the video that he is subjected to certain violence. When he asked why he was arrested, a policeman would have said to Mr. Dumont, "Because you're a Walloon." As a result of this altercation, Mr. Dumont was taken to the hospital in a state of psychological and physical shock. Your predecessor, Minister Jambon, had responded to the plenary session on October 4, 2018. He had then read a report that is hard on this citizen who is accused of being under the influence of alcohol. I quote the discussion report: "The man immediately starts screaming that he has the right to film. The person in question shouts very loudly, as does the second man who accompanies him. He had clearly been drinking. The on-site team established it." Yet the medical report transmitted by the League of Human Rights denies the information. Mr. Dumont would only have 0.20 g of alcohol in the blood at the time of the incident, while the legal alcohol limit for driving a vehicle is 0.50 g. The video of the event, posted online, does not show a scene of screams. Both Mr. Dumont and the League of Human Rights filed a complaint with the King's prosecutor. According to the Human Rights League, this kind of event is unfortunately not uncommon. It is therefore particularly disturbing that the statements of your predecessor, Minister Jambon, in plenary session, do not at present correspond to the information contained in the medical report or to the video describing the incident. I repeat my questions. This is not an annoyance but a serious situation. The description of events by your predecessor does not correspond to the established facts. Can you give us today the version, possibly amended, of Mr Jambon's October 2018 reply? Do you confirm that between the statements of the report read in plenary on October 4, 2018 and the version of the facts, there is indeed a difference? Can you correct the report if necessary and give us the version of the facts that corresponds to reality? Minister, with regard to the police officers who intervened, has an internal investigation at the level of the police services been requested, in parallel with the ongoing judicial investigation, to establish the truth about this particularly serious incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u6	Mr President, Minister, my colleague has just referred to the facts. On October 4, 2018 in plenary session and on October 17, 2018, I asked the Minister of the Interior why Mr Diego Dumont was arrested on October 2, 2018 during an arrest of migrants at Landen station, as he came to pick up his daughter. At the time, Minister Jambon responded to the question in plenary by reading a report. From the plenary, I asked myself about the truthfulness of the facts which absolutely did not correspond to the version of Mr Dumont that I had had online the day before. On October 17, 2018, in committee, I again asked Minister Jambon about this arrest. He also stated that it was not prohibited to film or photograph during a police intervention, provided that it did not make the intervention impossible. On the other hand, it is prohibited to make any use of it other than personal. The taking of images is therefore not a criminal offence. It shall not give rise to a judicial seizure of the apparatus or to the seizure or destruction of images. The arrest of an author of the photograph cannot be justified on the basis of the taking of images alone. The minister had stated that the evidence justifying the arrest had not been brought to his attention. Minister, I discovered through a report by the League of Human Rights, relayed by several media, that the version contained in the report that was read in the plenary of the House on 4 October 2018 is at least wrong. Several facts have drawn my attention in this video. Mr. Dumont calmly responds to the police officers he can film, and he directs his ID card without yelling, contrary to what was said in the report. Mr. Dumont is a few metres from the scene and does not prevent the police from working. The police want to seize the device. Minister Jambon had stated in committee that the device could only be seized if images were used for other than personal purposes. It was also said in the report that he was trying to put himself as close to the action as possible and continues to scream. The video does not show that at all. At no time does he raise his voice. Mr. Dumont will be forcibly dragged to the wharf. Minister Jambon spoke of a second man who accompanied him. No doubt it is about his daughter who, at the same time, notes that his father's face is in blood. There was no second man. When Mr. Dumont again asks the police officer why he's arrested, because he didn't do anything wrong, he answers, "Because you're Walloon." The Minister's report justified Mr. Dumont's arrest by excessive alcohol consumption. However, the medical report, highlighted by the Human Rights League in its recent video, proves the opposite. Diego Dumont has only 0.20 g of alcohol in the blood while the legal level that forms the limit for driving a vehicle is 0.50 g. The state of drunkenness is therefore absolutely not an argument. Minister Jambon, then Minister of the Interior, read a police report containing certain elements that are false. He thus dishonoured the honour of a man who had already suffered a great deal from an unwarranted aggression. Minister, I would like to know who provided this report and on what basis it was prepared. Given the inaccuracy of the report, will you request a new report? How could this content be released in plenary by the Minister without an audit? Are you aware that he cheated on Parliament and cast discredit on a man? What do you intend to do to remedy the situation and restore the truth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I will obviously not repeat the history or the reading of the report, but I agree with what my colleagues have said. When questioned in plenary, your predecessor had given the House of Representatives a police report on the intervention, which gives a completely different version of the events. He concluded his reading by saying that "the facts speak for themselves", to say that ultimately it was the attitude of the citizen in question that caused the events. In the light of the information we have had, as my colleagues have just pointed out, all the evidence leads us to believe that not content to exceed their rights in the course of the operation conducted that night, these policemen also led the then minister not to tell the whole truth in the House, not to tell him to lie. Minister, have you read the images of the intervention broadcast by La Ligue des Droits Humaines? Do you maintain your predecessor's version of the events in plenary? What measures have been taken or are you planning to take following the dissemination of these images, which clearly contradict the version of the police report? Has the IGA (General Police Indictment) been seized to investigate all elements of this operation? Apart from possible criminal follow-up, were disciplinary measures taken or would they be taken against police officers who had resorted to violence outside the legal framework? More generally, what follow-up do you intend to give to this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u8	Mr President, I have already said in committee, in response to a question put by Mr. Van Hecke on 9 January, that I did not wish to comment on this case since the investigative department of Committee P is currently conducting an investigation at the request of the prosecutor of the King of Leuven (Leuven). I would like to make it clear, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, that it is not the General Inspectorate of the local police and police, the IGA, which is responsible for carrying out the investigation. In addition, the chief of corps of the local police area concerned has so far taken no disciplinary action, also awaiting the results of this investigation. Mrs Matz, the responsibility for my predecessor's words belongs to him. I shall therefore refrain from commenting on them, pending all the light in this dossier. Finally, Mr Vanden Burre, for any question relating to the complaints that have been brought by the League of Human Rights, I must – to my deepest regret – refer you to my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u9	Minister, this is a report that Mr Jambon had read in plenary. He had therefore not simply expressed himself in his personal capacity. It is important to know the ins and outs of the report, in order to arrive at the truth of the facts. Clearly, what was said in plenary does not correspond to the truth. Did Mr. Jambon invent this version on his own? I really don't think so. That is the purpose of our concerns. You don't answer the question, but I don't know why. I know that an investigation is under way, but I would like to know why this report contains a version that does not correspond to reality. That is simply what we are trying to understand. I therefore believe that you could tell us more about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u10	I believe that the Committee's investigation could clarify this possible tension between the statements and the report. She should do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u11	Minister, at the time, Minister Jambon told us that an investigation would be opened by Committee P. However, part of this investigation was revealed in a public sitting – and the minister told us to read a police report – by messing up the image of a man. Indeed, Mr.Jambon claimed that the person concerned had been arrested because he was drunk, although it seems to me that this is not a sufficient reason – except in the event of a disturbance of public order. It was his version. So he publicly smeared a man's honor. On the other hand, the exculpatory elements are included in a hidden Committee P investigation, sheltered from everything. I think there's a dissonance between two points of view. Of course, there is an inquiry by Committee P. But once a party has been publicly delivered to the press, to parliamentarians, on these points, it is up to you to give us public information, telling us who prepared this report, on what basis, etc. Minister Jambon referred the rest to Committee P. But on this point, I am sorry, it is certainly a piece of the report, but it has been delivered publicly and we need to have answers on this. I find this unacceptable. But in addition, this man has to suffer from the fact that his reputation was tainted because a minister did not worry too much about the actual follow-up to what had actually happened. Theo Franken was there to advertise that night. We also wondered what the then Secretary of State was doing about an ongoing police operation. Basically, we were treating each other's communication campaigns. That's not how it works. I think you should be able to correct, in any case on elements you would have, this completely wrong police report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I find that you have taken on the role of the Minister responsible for the police very quickly and very well. "Circulate, there's nothing to see." It is a little less than at stake, first of all on the honour of a man, as my colleague has just pointed out, but above all on the seriousness of the facts. This is still a descent and facts that have taken place in a very particular context. We just recalled: there were one or two members of the government nearby. At the time, it had already seemed to us more like a communication operation than a real operation useful in the fight against smugglers, since that was how it was sold to us at the time. We see what is happening today. I hear there's a judicial investigation, but here we're talking about an administrative report. The real question we asked you was whether, like Mr Jambon, you were taking on this report. You tell us "circulate, there's nothing to see," so you assume it. I find this regrettable, for the reasons of honour mentioned by my colleague, but also in view of the seriousness of the facts and the desirability of conducting such operations under such conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u13	Minister, journalists are an indispensable counter-power to democratic vitality, alongside those called intermediate bodies, whistleblowers and other human rights defenders. However, both in Belgium and around the world, the working conditions of journalists are becoming increasingly difficult, in particular because of acts of violence, intimidation and harassment against them. All these threats endanger press freedom and freedom of expression. My question targets one of the visible manifestations of these threats: that of police arrests of journalists in the performance of their duties. In less than six months, Belgium has had journalists arrested on three occasions. A first incident involving two journalists and three RTBF technicians took place at the end of June in Steenokkerzeel. A journalist, Himad Messoudi, who was filming the action of the group "Not in my Name" on the construction site of the extension of Centre 127bis, saw his equipment confiscated, before being taken, as well as his colleagues, into a police van. They were then released, but RTBF filed a complaint with Committee P on behalf of its journalists. The second incident took place on 24 November in Charleroi and involved a photojournalist from La Dernière Heure, who was also a member of the accreditation commission as a professional journalist, which is quite stingy. Patrick Lefèbvre, who was reporting on the violent events that occurred during the night on the margins of a demonstration of yellow vests in Charleroi, was also the subject of an administrative arrest and, more serious, spent the night in the dungeon before being released at seven o'clock in the morning, apparently without any further explanation. The police reportedly accused him of being a "false journalist" although he was wearing "an orange jacket labelled press and a legitimation card around his neck", according to the AJP, the association of professional journalists. A third incident occurred on 30 November during the demonstration of the yellow vests in Brussels and involved a French journalist, Rémy Buisine. Directly, Mr. Buisine was arrested by the police, despite the fact that he presented his press card to the police officer who had arrested him. Images of Internet users revealed a violent intervention by the police as well as the journalist, colossal with his wrists, sitting in a column of protesters arrested. When the mayor of Brussels was informed of the arrest, he immediately ordered the journalist to be released. Each of these inquiries has been reported on the Council of Europe's platform for the protection of journalism, the last of which is the 500th complaint registered by this platform. These complaints state that the source of the threat is a state and concern two cases of harassment and intimidation of journalists and one case of detention and imprisonment. This is happening in Belgium, and these terms make the defenders of press freedom cold in their backs. Following the first event, the AJP wrote to the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior in June. The reply received reiterated that freedom of the press was guaranteed in Belgium, but reiterated the police version arguing that journalists had not presented themselves as such, a version strongly denied by the journalists concerned. The AJP also wrote to the same ministers after the second event. She was still waiting for the answer when this question was introduced on December 19, 2018. Finally, the AJP launched the steps to file a new complaint concerning the arrest of Patrick Lefèbvre. In addition, the AJP is constructive and would like to seek a meeting with the police management in order to consider raising police awareness on this subject and to convey the message that a journalist is not arrested unless he or she poses a real threat to public safety. The proposal to send a directive to police areas is also mentioned. The objective is clear: to enable journalists to work and to put an end to these unacceptable obstacles to the exercise of the function of journalist. Mr Minister, in less than six months, Belgium has therefore been arrested three times by journalists and this reveals at least that there is a real lack of knowledge of the rules governing the arrest of journalists by police officers on the ground. Therefore, with a constructive aim, I wish to hear from you today about the solutions that you are planning to implement in order to put an end to these arrests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u14	You're gonna have to finish! You've been talking for five minutes when you only had two!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u15	Minister, what do you think about these arrests of journalists in the performance of their duties? Do you confirm a certain lack of knowledge of the rules on the part of police officers in the field regarding the arrest of journalists? Do you intend to follow up on the constructive proposals made by the AJP, namely consultation and regulatory clarification? What other types of measures are you planning to implement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Waterschoot, there are no specific rules on the arrest of journalists and the law on the function of the police regulates, in its article 31, the assumptions of administrative arrest while the law on preventive detention contains the legal framework for judicial arrest. Any arrest, regardless of the person to whom it relates, must be carried out in accordance with the above-mentioned legal framework. In addition, the circular of 10 October 1995 sets out the rules governing relations between the police and the press. Every citizen who considers that he or she has been subjected to arbitrary or vexatious arrest has the opportunity to file a complaint with the judicial authority, the P Committee or the General Inspectorate of the Police Service, as well as with the internal oversight services of the police services. In addition, awareness-raising among police officers and reminders of standards take place both as part of basic training and as part of ongoing training. The teaching of subjects relating to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is specifically addressed in various modules of the general study regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u17	I guess the reply will be very brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u18	Mr President, my reply will be very short, if you ask me. It depends on the practices of one commission to another. Sometimes there's more width.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u19	The Regulations specify 5 minutes for the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u20	Mr President, I intend to respect that. Minister, you did not answer my question as to whether you would welcome the AJP's constructive proposals. I find this very regrettable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u21	Question No 28204 by Mr Olivier Maingain becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u22	Mr.President, Minister, during the evening of December 17, 2018, arrests took place on a train at the Ottignies train station. The police area of Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve was apparently required following a call for assistance from SNCB attendants who were overwhelmed by the presence of some 60 people without a transport document. A citizen filmed the police operation and testified in the press: violent and racist statements by a SNCB agent as well as by police officers. SNCB immediately announced that it would disassociate itself from unworthy and reprehensible statements made by one of its agents, dismissed the person concerned and launched an internal investigation. On the local police side, an internal investigation was also initiated. In this case, a citizen was prevented from filming. This is not the first time the police have refused, prevented, stopped or even filed a complaint against individuals who are running an intervention. In doing so, the police do not respect the right of citizens to film police operations. I am referring to the case of Mr Diego Dumont, which has just been referred to by my colleagues. Minister, on the sidelines of these cases, the League of Human Rights recalls that there is no general prohibition on photographing or filming the actions of the police. Apart from certain exceptional and limited cases, citizens and journalists have the right to film or photograph police interventions, whether to inform or collect evidence of the events. According to the European Commission for Democracy through the Law of the Council of Europe, also known as the Venice Commission, states should not "prevent participants and third parties from photographing or filming the police operation". In addition, the Walloon Brabant Police Court, Wavre Division, has recently confirmed that "the mere fact of filming the control scene does not appear to be of a nature in itself to be contrary to security or public tranquillity". Minister, do you confirm that racist and violent statements were made during the inquiry and that injunctions prohibiting filming were given to the citizen in solidarity? If so, do you condemn these unacceptable behaviors? Does the internal investigation cover both violent and racist statements and the alleged ban on filming imposed by law enforcement agencies? In the end, how many people were arrested and on what grounds? Were there any undocumented persons, migrants, minors? If so, where were the minors transferred? Finally, what measures do you intend to take to prevent this type of reprehensible verbal overflow and to enforce the police's right to film police action that does not constitute a disturbance to public order?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I will try not to repeat what my colleague has just said. In circumstances very similar to the events in Landen, on which we have also questioned you, an SNCB user who was filming a police operation involving migrants at the Ottignies station was also subjected to an administrative arrest. Racist insults and aggressive interventions against citizens filming police operations in accordance with the law: the repetition of such acts does not fail to provoke indignation, rightly or even mistrust, in the head of citizens towards their police. You will agree that this is regrettable. Minister, can you tell us what happened at the Ottignies station on December 18th? Has an investigation been initiated on the subject? Have any measures been taken to remind the law enforcement authorities of the attitude to be taken towards citizens who are running operations, or of the principles of the use of force in their operations? Can you tell us how many reports were made against police officers for acts related to racism? What measures are being taken to combat racism and xenophobia within the police?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I must point out that an investigation carried out by the internal control services of the local police area of Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve, as well as another, of which the General Inspectorate of Police Services (IGA) has taken the initiative, is under way, both on the progress of the facts and on the attitude adopted by the police services. It is therefore appropriate to await their conclusions. The instructions are clear. Police officers are well aware that, legally, it cannot be prohibited to film a police action. However, it should be recalled that, in the light of privacy principles, images of published faces must be blurred. The Railway Police (SPC) arrested five illegal residents, including one adult and four minors. No other incidents were reported. After the decision of the Office of Foreigners and the Tutelle Service, one adult and one minor were released and two other minors were presented by the Brussels Railway Police at the Fedasil dispatching, which, however, could not accommodate them. Training and retraining of police officers in conflict management and basic knowledge of legislation is an ongoing process. It should also be noted that the daily briefings within the railway police are a reminder of the principles and attitudes expected of the railway police towards citizens and the public. Fernandez Fernandez, it is important to make it clear that the complainant, who also met on January 8, 2019 the chief of corps of the local police zone of Ottignies-Louvain-la-Neuve and Mrs.La Bourgmester, did not commit any offences, but was administratively arrested by the police officers of the local police zone, for a short time, because he was the cause of a restricted disorder of public order. At the federal level, there is no disciplinary record in this area. However, a tool called "MISI" (Melding van Incidentn-Reporting des Incidents) has been developed for the benefit of police officers who, as perpetrators or victims, face acts of violence: i.e. members of the local police and the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police of the Federal Police. In concrete terms, it allows the recording of acts of violence committed against or by members of the integrated police force. To date, it is not envisaged to launch a campaign on this topic. The rights of persons arrested or arrested are the subject of great attention in the training of police officers. First of all, from the basic training, they follow a module on ethics, which aims directly at getting them to integrate police activity within the basic general framework of respect for citizens' rights and freedoms. Second, so-called "continuous" training is frequently offered to staff members throughout their careers. Several of them concern respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens, taking up certain more specific ethical aspects. The same applies to the fight against racism and xenophobia and the management of conflicts. While I remain open to possible avenues to improve certain aspects, I believe that I can conclude that police training gives an important and justified place to respect the rights of those arrested or arrested. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, with regard to your last question, given the size of the figures requested and the very short time limit for replying to you, I propose that you send it to me in writing. I'll answer you as soon as I get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answer. I welcome the existence of these human rights trainings and refresher courses. However, it must be noted that this is not enough. About the ban on filming, a gathering will take place this Friday in front of the courthouse, because a police officer had seized the camera of a film crew to erase the video data from the memory card. It therefore seems to me essential to recall the need to comply with the standards in force. I strongly encourage you to continue your reflection on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u26	Minister, I will introduce a written question to receive the figures. I understand that the deadlines are short. The organization of work is sometimes done in this way. Today we are faced with decomplexed racism and xenophobia. We're all victims of this one way or the other, and so are the police. I don't think there's any good guys on one side and bad guys on the other. Our security forces are also increasingly victims. They need to be increasingly protected and given tools to respond to unusual, unexpected or new situations. It is a way of protecting law enforcement, the public authority in charge of our security. I think that should remain the case. I welcome the existence of a whole series of instruments and trainings. The world is waning, the world is changing, and perhaps we should reflect, in the light of the sad events we have referred to today, on adapting them constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u27	Minister, during an interview with the press by a representative of the SLFP (Free Trade Union of the Public Service), the latter stressed the existence of a shortage of staff in the road police. This would affect almost 40% of the theoretical workforce, during a key period of the end-of-year holidays, when checks must be repeated, particularly in terms of alcohol and driving. However, the problem would be broader, and I quote from the union representative: "There is the BOB campaign for which we do not see how the desired objectives could be achieved with such a shortage of staff. There are the inspection missions of buses, trucks, which can hardly be achieved since we already have to respond to all the urgent tasks on a daily basis". I would like to ask you two questions, Minister. In the light of these facts, can you confirm that there is a shortage of personnel in the road police units? If so, what is the status of the situation? Are some services more affected than others? Have the reasons for this shortage of staff been identified? So what measures have been taken to remedy the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u28	Despite recent recruitment efforts within the integrated police force, the shortage of staff is still present in the Federal Road Police. Among the reasons for this shortage, we can identify the following main factors. First of all, the average age of staff in the DGA/DAH (Road Police Directorate) is relatively high, particularly among officers, and many retirements have taken place. The training process is relatively long and selective within the DHA. After completing one-year basic training in police schools without a guarantee of graduation, police officers who wish to work in the DAH still have to undergo specialized training. It's high-speed driving on highways, motorcycling, etc. Next, they must pass the selection tests in order to be able to hope for a position within the DAH, which implies a number of failures on the part of the candidates. A well-being and stress survey conducted in 2011 revealed that some services were facing a significant workload: command, traffic, etc. Unpredictability related to function and high emotional load are factors of tension, burn-out and avoidance behaviour. The current deficit has been in existence since 2015. To remedy this situation, the integrated police force recruited 1600 police officers in 2016, 1400 in 2017 and 1400 in 2018. With 1,400 men and women, police schools are at the maximum of their capacity. The fact that the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police has designated the DHA as a priority recruitment entity has also prevented the capacity situation from continuing to deteriorate. In addition to structural recruitment measures, non-structural measures are also being taken to deal with this deficit capacity situation: the prioritization of missions, reinforcements of the borough intervention forces, inter-provincial solidarity in the context of certain missions and the reduction of the share of proactive missions. Measures have therefore been taken and I hope to be able to announce soon that certain problems have been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to see that you are well aware of the problems and that action has already been taken. I hope that you will be able to take the appropriate steps in this area because there are a number of problems on the ground and it is important to listen to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u30	Question No 28146 by Mr David Geerts is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u31	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u32	Minister, on the occasion of a football match between the Bruges and Anderlecht teams last August, supporters chanted anti-Semitic songs that were reported in the press. Without lingering on the unworthy and unspeakable words – which can only provoke disgust and reprobation – I would like to learn about the follow-up provided by the public authorities on this issue. The Bruges club wanted to react to this incident and I quote one of its press releases: "A few days after the meeting, the Bruges Club was notified of these facts by its own supporters and stewards. The Club has succeeded in identifying these people and has excluded them from its stage before initiating legal proceedings against them." De facto, it would appear that a number of perpetrators have been clearly identified and could therefore be prosecuted. Minister, what measures are currently being taken by your services to prevent and combat racism and anti-Semitism in sports fora, in direct synergy with judicial actors? Were the law enforcement agencies present during these events? If so, what was their attitude to anti-Semitic behaviour and explicit calls for hatred? What decisions have been taken to facilitate research, identification and ultimately the imposition of sanctions against the authors of these anti-Semitic songs? What is the status of collaborations between your services and those of the Justice FPS on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u33	Mr President, Minister, published on the website of La Dernière Heure in December by supporters of Club Bruges after the game against Anderlecht of 26 August. There some supporters used anti-Semitic chants, such as "My father was in command, my mother was in the SS and together they burned Jews, because they burned best." Today, on the day of the commemoration of victims of the Holocaust, I would like to emphasise how anti-Semitic is still present in certain places. As Mr Calomne has just said, Club Bruges, on the record of his stewards, has itself identified a number of people and has imposed a civil stadium ban on them. In addition, in a reaction to the facts, the court informed the police that they were waiting for the police report. Such facts are not an isolated case. Several examples of anti-Semitic songs during football matches can be found both at home and abroad. I refer to the Antwerp - Beerschot-Wilrijk competition of April last year, where choirs against the Jewish community were heard and where there was also a banner with an anti-Jewish message. In the Netherlands there have been problems in 2017 as a result of the AZ - Ajax competition, where supporters of AZ sang the same anti-Semitic songs I just mentioned. Supporters of English Chelsea sang anti-Semitic songs last month during the European match against the Hungarian Vidi. The Football Act provides for the possibility to impose a sentence on anyone who leads to beatings and injuries, hatred or anger against one or more persons, either alone or in a group in the stadium or even in the entire territory. In addition, the football club or the football association can always act and impose a civil stadium ban. Last week, both Mr Calomne and I put a question to Minister Geens on the same subject, but I would like to focus on issues that concern the Interior. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First, can you confirm that the police have prepared a report following the anti-Semitic chants after the Club Bruges - Anderlecht competition of 26 August 2018? Secondly, how often does the police record after a football club or the football association has already imposed a civil stadium ban? Thirdly, in how many cases has the football cell sanctioned anti-Semitic behaviour? Can you show any trends in these figures? Fourthly, are there any figures available on the number of civil sanctions in connection with anti-Semitic behaviour? I know it is not customary in an oral question to ask for many figures, but I know that the figures are very limited, which is why I dare to ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Calomne, racist and/or anti-Semitic statements have nowhere in our society, and therefore not around football stadiums either. They constitute a violation of Articles 23 and 23bis of the Football Act, which punishes all behaviour of incitement to hatred and disacquaintment. Similarly, Circular OOP 40 of 14 December 2006 containing guidelines against offensive, racist and discriminatory statements and slogans chanted in chorus during football matches determines the threshold of tolerance against this type of behaviour and the preventive and repressive measures to be taken by the actors on the ground in the face of discriminatory statements, behaviours and symbols as listed exhaustively in the said circular. On the basis of these arrangements, the police services and the services of the Football Cell of the Internal SPF may initiate administrative proceedings which may lead to a stage ban and a fine against anyone who utters such songs alone or in groups. The Prosecutor's Office of the King of Bruges may also prosecute these facts on the basis of a police finding, which is the case for the present facts. The Football Cell and the national football bodies have also always advocated that clubs take more responsibility, in particular by punishing supporters on the basis of their internal rules, without waiting for the decision of the Internal SPF or the judiciary. In this case, the Bruges club itself confirmed, by press release, that several people involved had been identified and excluded from the stadium. In addition, with the support of the Internal SPF Football Unit, the Pro League will implement its action plan on discriminant and/or racist singing through a project to raise awareness among football clubs and other relevant sports organisations. The local police in Bruges did not find these facts at the time they occurred. The police services are now working with the judiciary to identify the perpetrators. Prosecutions are initiated at the initiative of the Prosecutor's Office of the King of Bruges. The authors can then be identified on the basis of video images revealed in the media. Mr Vermeulen, the local police of Bruges did indeed draw up a report for racism following the anti-Semitic chants after the Club Bruges competition on 26 August 2018 and sent it to the competent court. The procedure relating to civil expulsion, initiated by a football club in the event of a breach of a provision of the Rules of Procedure, is not linked to the football law. However, certain behaviours may constitute both an infringement of the internal rules of a club and of the football law. It is therefore possible for police officers, irrespective of the procedure initiated by the club, to draw up a report on the facts which they have established at the stadium. There are no statistics on the number of cases where both a procedure is initiated or initiated by a football club and by the police. We strongly condemn such behaviour. In the past three years, the football cell has received eight police reports in this context. A prosecution was brought every time, which also gave rise to a penalty with a stadium ban and a fine. There is currently insufficient evidence to talk about trends or a clear advance. Each case, however, is clearly one too many. The Royal Belgian Football Association states that in the past year four civil exclusions were imposed. There are no other civil exclusions for such facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u36	Minister, I am actually pleased that you yourself say in your reply that the responsibility of the clubs, the Pro League and the football association is important, and that they should not hide themselves. They themselves must first of all, through their own regulatory basis, prohibit and impose fines on civil law. In addition, there are such serious facts that we can only ensure that the police and the judiciary pay sufficient attention to them. You mentioned a number of PV's and related statements. That's good. I believe that a number of things are being tried to justify themselves by abusing a name like "jodens" and giving it an anti-Semitic context. A humorous name with a humorous touch is completely different from that kind of gory talk. I feel the facts are more serious than they used to be. That is why I would like to give the message to keep an eye on this so that it cannot escalate further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u37	Président: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u38	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 28152 is referred to the Committee on Justice. Question No 28154 by Mr Demon will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on the night of Saint-Sylvestre, violence took place in the territory of the municipality of Molenbeek-Saint-Jean, near the Black Ponds metro station. In fact, we had the opportunity to hear from you about this at the autumn plenary session. On this occasion, bands of breakers set fire to garbage cans on the street before attacking vehicles parked on the road as well as an adjacent pharmacy. The federal police, who intervened very quickly at the scene, also had to deal with unacceptable behaviour by young people who continued their misdemeanours by vandalizing intervention cars, including self-pumps, and by causing a fire in a fortunately unoccupied building. Called in reinforcement to prevent any spread of flames, the fire departments were also stone-throwed and had to turn back. The images of these acts, broadcast in the media, obviously shocked the citizens of our country. These facts are unspeakable and the perpetrators of such violence must be identified and prosecuted as soon as possible. No-right zones cannot exist in the very heart of our capital, which is also the capital of Europe. So, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. According to the information at your disposal at this stage, what is the final assessment of the situation in Molenbeek-Saint-Jean? What is the precise origin of these disorders? What is the state of damage to citizens' property and to representatives of public services, especially police and firefighters? What steps have been taken to ensure the earliest possible identification of the perpetrators? Have any arrests been made in flagrante delicto? If so, how many people have been referred to the Public Prosecutor's Office? What is the state of synergy between your services and those of justice in this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u40	Minister, with the Brussels violence of November 2017, with the transition from old to new, we had to re-assess how caregivers and security services were victims of threats and violence. Firefighters, police officers and nurses were threatened and brutally attacked. In Molenbeek there was even extreme violence. Among other things, a pharmacy, a house and five cars were set on fire and rioters, some of whom were known to have been destroyed. That cannot be tolerated. Security forces are demanding a clear signal. There is also a difference in interpretation between the Minister and the police. According to the corps concerned, which do not wish to respond to the Minister's comments, they were prepared on New Year's Eve, there were also federal police teams on the premises and the system worked. Mr. Secretary, you mentioned the recruitment of 2 500 agents. We think this is positive, but in the past there were only funds to recruit about half of this, at least in a report by former Minister Jambon on the recruitment of agents. Minister, how will the violence against our security services be dealt with? What signal will you give? There is a clear difference between your assessment of how the riots are handled and that of the police. Could you clarify your opinion on this matter? What do you think should change in the organisation of the police landscape and police structure? I think that's going in the direction of merger. Will you allow Minister Jambon's report on recruitment to be implemented and in what way? Where do the necessary financial resources come from to pay 2 500 additional agents, which apparently weren't there before?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u41	Mr Minister, I do not want to repeat the facts, the facts have already been listed by my fellow Members. A few weeks ago, on Friday evening, you received the fact-finding report and concluded that, on New Year's Eve in Molenbeek, the Brussels West police had committed several errors of assessment and did not intervene adequately after the riots, resulting in looting and destruction. The preparation and planning of the night from 31 December to 1 January would have been totally inadequate and would not initially have been called for reinforcement, although it was available. After the riots broke out, you also said that there would not have been a proper response. Then they asked for backup and it came immediately to the scene, but it turned out to be insufficient. As Mr Degroote said, the Chief Constable of Zone West did not want to respond to the criticism. You concluded that a single Brussels police zone would now be inevitable and said that the preparatory work would be started so that a next federal government could start working on it. What is the outcome of the further investigation? What conclusions and recommendations can be drawn for the future? Can you explain the second report requested by the General Inspection? What leads you to the conclusion that a single police zone in Brussels is now inevitable? Will there be any preparatory work on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u42	Mr Vanden Burre is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u43	Minister, it has already been mentioned by previous speakers: the riots at New Year's Eve in Molenbeek caused a great deal of damage, just like the year before. The sad thing is that no one was prosecuted in the riots of the year before. You, like a few others, expressed some commentary in response to those riots. For example, on the basis of a number of reports, you stated that the police area was not sufficiently prepared for the riots. You reiterated the plea for a single police area in Brussels, which would now be inevitable and for which you would take the preparatory measures. We have also heard very remarkable comments from the mayor of Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. In TerZake she called burning garbage cans and Christmas trees a way of celebrating. She literally said: "If we do not organize a party, the youth organises their own party. Then it escalates and becomes something else." That's what happened. It is in stark contrast to the intentions of your predecessor, who stated in 2015 that Molenbeek would be cleaned up, referring to the Channel Plan that he created in response to the terrorist attacks leading to Molenbeek. Minister, can you tell us more about the failure of the Brussels police in relation to the riots? What conclusions should be drawn from this? Secondly, what kind of preparatory measures are you taking for the establishment of a single Brussels police area? Under what powers do you do that? After all, the government is in ongoing business. Do you think that can be achieved effectively? Thirdly, how do you assess the Molenbeek mayor's ruling? Do you think the government should indeed organise parties to get the foam off the street as a remedy for their repulsive behavior? Is that, in your opinion, the signal that society should give to that crapul? I do not think so, but I would have liked to have heard your views. Finally, do you think Molenbeek was effectively cleaned up? If not, what else do you think should happen in order to keep a real chastity there, so that citizens can live their lives there again in complete safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u44	Mr.President, Minister, on the night of December 31, 2018 to January 1 of this year, dramatic and unacceptable events once again tarnished the festivities. I fully agree with my colleagues that the perpetrators of such acts must be identified, prosecuted and tried. But the recurrence of these events also shows that structural elements are at work behind them. As we know, the shortage of staff in the local police force is one. Proximity missions, which aim to prevent such events, are made more difficult by this chronic shortage of staff and by the large turnover of staff in Brussels police. As of November 2017, 58 full-time equivalents were missing in the police area concerned. Moreover, the weakness of the resources allocated to the area by the federal allocation is also to be noted: the latest figures available, for 2016, establish a federal allocation of €66.18 per inhabitant, making it the least financed area in this way in the Brussels-Capital Region. The lack of resources must be compensated by the municipalities, in a very important way. These means are therefore not allocated to other policies, be they economic, urban or preventive, all types of actions that could have a favourable impact on the security to which all citizens of our country are entitled. Minister, what is the status of the investigation into the perpetrators? Were any people arrested? What is the current status of the personnel in the area concerned? Is the November 2017 deficit on track to be addressed? In the past year, how many agents have joined the area and how many have left it? From the point of view of federal means, what are the proposals you put on the table to put an end to the underfunding of local police areas? In terms of prevention, what measures do you intend to put in place, together with local authorities, to prevent such incidents from happening again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u45	Mr President, as I was already able to say at the plenary session on 10 January, an investigation was initiated with the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the local police. This one's still in progress. I will carefully analyse the resulting recommendations in order to improve the organization of police services in the management of such incidents. In particular, from the perspective of managing large-scale events, I am thinking of the generalisation of prior consultation between rescue services through an analysis of operational risks. At the same time, the local police area in Brussels-West is continuing its investigation, which is based mainly on neighbourhood investigations, as well as on the vision and analysis of the images of the cameras of the police zone, STIB, vandalized shops, social networks, Belfius bank and sprinkler. Once all these images have been viewed, which can take another week, that photos have been made of recognizable faces, and that precise facts can be attributed to these faces, investigators will conduct hearings and arrests of suspects. Once these persons have been identified, they will be heard in the context of a single case, which was opened under index 10 "association of criminals", with the consent of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Calomne, to answer your question, on the night of New Year's Eve, two authors were arrested and made available to the public prosecutor. If victims have been heard, it is not possible to quantify the damage. However, I can tell you that seven police vehicles were damaged (glasses and bodywork) as well as seven private vehicles and one unoccupied house, which was burned down. The origin of these disorders could not yet be determined. However, according to the fire department, many pyrotechnic devices were present. Let me turn to your question, Mrs Ben Hamou, about the size of the police area concerned. This one's in deficit. At the level of the operational organizational framework, the area has a deficit of 118 police officers and almost half of this deficit is filled by the provision of 53 federal police inspectors under the Canal Plan. With respect to your observation on the financing of police areas, there is no tangible evidence that police areas are underfunded. To answer Mr Degroote's question, I can tell you the planned recruitment of a total of 2 250 FTEs for 2019. Concerning external recruitments: inspectors/INP 1 400; security agents/BAGP 336; chief inspectors with special specialisations/HINP BS, intended for DGJ 45; Commissioners/CP 80 externals, of which 20 by the Security/DAB Directorate. Regarding social promotion, internal circuit: Commissioners/CP 60; Superintendents/HINP 329, being 300 plus 29 DABs. However, I would like to stress that the above figures remain estimates and therefore depend on the number of candidates to be recruited effectively. In addition, as we are currently in a period of ongoing business, there is still some uncertainty about the staff appropriations available for 2019. Depending on whether or not to allocate these appropriations, the recruitments foreseen in 2019 may or may not take place. I hope, of course, that this will be possible. I would like to stress that violence against relief and police services is unacceptable. This is unacceptable! Like so many others, I have expressed the wish to merge all the police areas in the Brussels-Capital region. I have expressed the wish to merge all the police areas of the Brussels Region. In my opinion, this is inevitable. This will enable us to avoid double structures, promote mobility and prioritize the deployment of community policing. We will see what can be done in the future to that end. I also note that a change of mentality is taking place. For example, the mayor of Brussels pleads for a police command unit for major events in the capital. The president of the CDH, who resigned, also called for a merger of Brussels municipalities and police areas. In other words, I believe that there is a great development in this area. When I have the details of the inspection, I will not fail to communicate them to the committee. I will shortly be providing you with the results of the General Inspectorate's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. I appreciate the fact that you reiterated that it is unacceptable to attack the relief and police services, which are precisely there to help the population. As far as the merger of police areas is concerned, the debate is interesting and all possible avenues must be considered. However, I think it is important to recall that the merger of police areas is not an objective in itself for us. What matters to us is efficiency on the ground. You say that the mayor of Brussels spoke in the press of a single unit of command: this is one of the avenues that can be considered. This may solve a number of problems. We sometimes have the impression that by repeating that fusion is THE solution, we will not think about other things. This is not the only thing we need to focus on, we need to look at ways to increase efficiency in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I note that the appropriations for the additional agents are still to be granted. We hope, of course, that this progress can be made. We can support the merger of the police zones, which you put forward as a solution. We must not say on the French-speaking side that we are seeking cooperation agreements. This is not bad in itself, but if they do not work in practice, as has been shown here, then action will have to be taken. The more noses are in the same direction, the more we prefer it. But someday a decision will have to be made on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that the debate on structures will continue in the coming months. I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u49	Minister, I have not received an answer to all my questions, but that is often the case in this house. I continue to be very sorry, I understand that in a government in current affairs you are limited in your actions, and I have heard a great deal of the desire over the past five years to make Brussels a single police area, while the people have long expressed that wish and it is of course up to the government to implement it. There is support for this in Flanders, there is no reason why there should not be. I will end with a positive note: you say that you will start the preparatory work to arrive at a single police area, but a lot of preparatory work has already been done. There are already two legislative proposals pending in this House, so I hope that this can be done before the end of the legislative period, because I agree with you that this is urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u50	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear an investigation is under way. I will, of course, await the recommendations of the report and come back to you, if necessary. However, I would like to tell you that the Molenbeek police did what they could with the means they had. The real problem today is the lack of personnel throughout the areas, but also within the federal police force, which is unable to assume its first role of assisting local police areas. It is at this level that we must work quickly. You've got a few months left. We ask you to remedy this problem and act now. You say that it is not possible to encrypt the underfunding of police areas. I hope, however, that a clear answer will be obtained next week at the hearing of Mr Koekelberg's team in connection with the merger of police zones. Indeed, your answer leaves me hungry. On the subject of the merger of police zones, I hear your point of view, which I believe is purely ideological. In addition, I think that you were a little too fast when you spoke about it. Indeed, at this stage, we do not have enough tangible evidence to conclude that there is a need for a merger of police areas. I therefore regret this rather premature exit, especially since the report is due to be presented next week. As Minister of the Interior, you could at least have waited for the conclusions of this report before speaking in the press. Finally, you have not answered my important question about the measures you intend to put in place with the local authorities so that such incidents do not happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u51	President: Conseil Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u52	Minister, this is the first time I have asked you in your capacity as Minister of the Interior. Last May, I asked your predecessor about the congestion of the emergency call centres, including the 112 centres. At the beginning of December, the Internal FPS was taking action to improve the situation. Investigations and brainstorming were carried out with rescue services, public organizations and operators of power plants. These should lead to information campaigns for the general public in the future. The ultimate objective is to encourage citizens to sort out situations that actually require a call to 112 and others. Many non-emergency appeals are being made. Minister, I am pleased to see developments in this area. This situation made the risk of an accident more and more important. My questions are as follows: Do you intend to continue this work initiated by your predecessor? Are the results of these surveys, to your knowledge, already available? In concrete terms, what types of actions will be carried out and with what timetable? To your knowledge, how has the situation changed in recent months? Is there a dangerous increase in the number of calls received? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I have two questions which have been added to Mr Flahaux's question. My first question concerns emergency number 112 in general. My second is rather about devices that are not IVR-compatible. First, on 10 December 2018, the Federal State Department of Home Affairs held a first stakeholder participation moment for its emergency power stations 112. The Home Office brought together information from citizens, operators from emergency power stations, emergency services and other government organisations, both in the autumn and during a so-called physical stakeholder participation moment. In doing so, the participants have looked for a supported definition, for rules of thumb or for another end product, from which people can clearly explain for which they can call 112 and for which they would better use an alternative. According to info on the website www.civiele security.be, more than a quarter of the calls to 112 would not be real emergency calls, which will provide additional waiting times for people who really need help from the fire department or ambulance. Other figures in the media even speak of a higher figure. In Het Nieuwsblad of 7 March 2017, I read a statement by Jimmy Smedts of the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications, which states: "The 112 Auxiliary Centre, the former emergency number 100 for fire and ambulance, received 2 757 722 calls in 2016. Of these, 37 % or 1 020 357 calls were false. The police received 2 619 177 calls in 2016. There was only 12 % or 314 301 calls, false.'. At the end of September 2018 the FPS Interior said that callers to emergency numbers 112, 101 or the old emergency number 100 from 1 October 2018 in the provinces of West Flanders and Namur should first make a choice between the following options: For ambulance or fire brigade, press 1 and for police, press 2. On the basis of the results of the test project, it would be decided in the coming months whether the system should be extended to the whole country. Mr Minister, has the number of false calls to numbers 100 and 112 been reduced since the 112 app and the various efforts that have been made in this respect? How many calls were made in 2017 and 2018 to 112, the former number 100 for firefighters and ambulances, and how many were there, consciously or unconsciously, unjustly? Can an explanation be given for the evolution since 2016? Was the experiment that the Home Office started on October 1st in my province of West Flanders and evaluated in Namur already? If so, what were the main conclusions of that evaluation? What concrete impact does the FPS Home Affairs draw from the conclusions of its stakeholder participation in December 2018? What budgetary impact and staff impact will it have? I now come to my second question. Proximus customers, including myself, recently received an e-mail explaining that the services behind numbers 100, 101 and 112 change their call centre, which means that some emergency numbers are no longer accessible via their current telephones. To test that, Proximus asked the customers to call the free number 0800/22 123. If people do not receive a confirmation message, this means that they may no longer be able to call the emergency numbers. In the accompanying mail, Proximus advises those customers to purchase an Interactive Voice Response-compatible device. Last year, two pilot projects were launched with IVR devices, as I explained earlier. With such a device, calling 911 would work in the same way as using the 112 app. Mr Minister, when were the pilot projects completed in West Flanders and Namur? Can the evaluation be explained? Do you have any figures on the number of people who tried to call 911 with a non-IVR-compatible device? What kind of report did these people get? How does that relate to the total number of persons who were 112 during that period? Why was it decided to provide the numbers 100 and 101 with an IVR in addition to the 112? From when will it become impossible to reach the services 100, 101 and 112 via a non-IVR-compatible device? How many such devices are still in use in Belgium and what proportion do they account for in the total of all fixed telephones? What channels inform people with a non-IVR-compatible device that they can no longer use emergency numbers? What budget has been allocated to this information campaign? Have agreements been made with all telecom operators on how they will inform their customers? If so, when did these talks take place and what specific arrangements were made? If not, which fixed telecom operators are not involved in those agreements on informing their customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u54	Mr President, Mr Vermeulen, as regards the first part of your oral question, I would suggest that you write to me, given the quantitative nature of the answer, and I will give you the answers as soon as possible. I can tell you that the Interactive Voice Response pilot project was tested with a double objective in mind: on the one hand, to reduce the number of improper calls to 112, 100 and 101, knowing that there is no golden measure that will eliminate all improper calls to 112 and 101, and on the other hand, to direct the caller immediately to the competent power station and thus prevent a caller from entering the wrong power station, which would require his call to be forwarded. A pilot project limited to emergency number 112 would miss its target. For example, it would not be possible to determine whether the 101 power station should also process fewer transmissions because the citizen made the right choice. The Interactive Voice Response pilot project was completed. At present, all data are collected to evaluate this project in all its facets. On the basis of this evaluation, it will be decided whether or not to generalise the project to all Belgian provinces and a timing will be determined. I must ask you to be patient with regard to the results of the pilot project. As soon as I know, I will explain this to you. With regard to the non-IVR-compatible telephones - those are the oldest analog devices with a rotary disk, which do not support the pulse dialing technology - Proximus is not in a position to identify the number of customers that would still be using these devices. So I cannot give you any figures on this either. During the pilot project, my services did not receive any complaints from citizens who could not reach emergency power stations. However, I would like to point out that the use of a choice menu is a technology that has been established for a long time and that more and more private companies, but also the public sector, use it. If a decision is taken to apply the IVR, it is the responsibility of the telecom operators to first of all offer their customers an opportunity to test whether their device supports pulse dialing or not; secondly, if that were not the case, to point out to them that if they do not change the device, adequate services will no longer be possible in the future, including reaching emergency power stations and, thirdly, to inform their customers of how they can purchase or hire a device that meets the requirements of the pulse dialling. It is therefore up to the telecom operators to offer their customers an opportunity to test whether their device supports pulse dialing and, if not, to point out to them that if they do not change the device, there will be no adequate service in the future, including reaching emergency power stations. Telecommunication operators must also inform them of how they can buy or hire a device. It will then be up to the users of these old devices to take action so that they can continue to reach the alarm system. Mr Flahaux, like my predecessor, I have the ambition to reduce the number of abusive calls. In addition to technical solutions, we will also look for ways to effectively transmit accurate information to the citizen. In concrete terms, we will soon begin the development of an electronic window where citizens can submit their requests for non-emergency interventions. My administration is currently analyzing the IVR 112 (Interactive Voice Response) pilot project. We can then examine whether we will generalize it. We are also looking at how to raise awareness among citizens and optimize our communication techniques. The first results should be known by mid-2019. The proportion of abusive calls has stagnated in recent months, which does not create any additional risks. The intention remains, of course, to reduce these calls through the above-mentioned actions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u55	My line will be short. I thank the minister for his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u56	Minister, the problem of false and unjustified calls must indeed be addressed. In emergency situations, there should be no miscommunication, so that other urgent cases cannot be resolved efficiently. It is, of course, a pity that no figures can be given and I should have to put an additional written question to that effect. I don't ask for figures per county or arrondissement. I also think that the figures are available, but I will put a written question on this. I also take note of the fact that the evaluation has not yet been carried out and that I therefore still have to wait for the results. As for the fixed telephones that are not EVR-compatible, I myself received an e-mail that woke me up. You replied that Proximus cannot indicate how many customers have such a device, but then it has to carry out an investigation itself and not transfer the matter to its customers with a simple e-mail, with whom the e-mail ends up in the spam and who actually do not respond or hardly respond. Proximus is responsible for doing so in a proper way, with a thorough sensitisation. Customers should not respond to an easy solution, but Proximus and the other operators should come up with a good solution. Last week, as a result of my question, Proximus had already distributed a communication with a mea culpa, but a solution did not really come. I insist that it is looking too much for an easy solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u57	Minister, since the launch of the "yellow jackets" movement, many blockages have taken place in recent weeks. That they concern fuel depots, industrial zonings, filtering dams, several acts of sabotage, destruction and vandalism - not to mention the countless acts of violence against law enforcement forces - were committed. On the basis of article 19 of our Constitution, I have no intention of challenging any right to express any opinion whatsoever. I quote: "The freedom of worship, the freedom of public practice, and the freedom to express one's views in all matters are guaranteed, except for the punishment of offences committed in connection with the use of these freedoms." However, if I repeat the second part of the sentence of the same article, offences committed during demonstrations are not covered by these rights. They will therefore be prosecuted. Minister, what are the means used to identify and prosecute the perpetrators of the crimes committed during these blockages and demonstrations? In your opinion, are they sufficient? Is the legal framework within which law enforcement agencies operate sufficiently broad, precise and comprehensive?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u58	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the simplest way to identify the authors is to intercept them at the moment of the facts or immediately thereafter. In practice, it is not often so simple. The police must take into account several factors such as the limits of tolerance set by the competent administrative authority or the appropriateness of police intervention in relation to possible escalation. For delayed intervention, the police can generally use images and evidence collected during or after the events. The federal police also have an offer of specialized support in personnel and means to gather evidence. This support is provided by the Public Safety Directorate, which also provides a national reserve 24 hours a day and seven days a week. These resources are sufficient in themselves. However, the supply of specialized resources is of course limited. Their availability depends heavily on the timing of demand and other simultaneous events. Article 22 of the Law on the Police Function describes the mission of the police services in relation to major gatherings, providing that the police services are within reach of these major gatherings and taking appropriate measures for their peaceful conduct. Ministerial Circulars CP4 of 11 May 2011 and OOP41 of 31 March 2014 on the negotiated management of public space for integrated policing provide the framework for the negotiated management of events and gatherings. As part of this mission, the police services enjoy the powers conferred by the Police Function Act, in particular with regard to identity checks, searches of persons, use of cameras and administrative arrests, while the Preventive Detention Act provides the legal framework for judicial arrests. Finally, the procedures for the use of coercion by the police services are clearly regulated by the Police Function Act and are subject to continuous training and training in police schools. As you can see, the legal and regulatory framework is fairly comprehensive and appears sufficient and adequate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answer. I just have a small reserve, like Mrs. Ben Hamou earlier, on the recruitment issue. As in Paris, there should not be demonstrations of yellow vests every week because this would occupy much of your capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament 28164, 28165, 28166 and 28167 of myself are converted into written questions. Mrs Gabriels, we come to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u61	Mr. Secretary, security officers are fully screened by the Federal Department of the Interior, Private Security Directorate, at least every five years. In practice, this is done more frequently, with the implementation of the Law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security. They're checking to see if they're known for facts that pose a security risk. If so, the Minister decides that they are no longer allowed to carry out surveillance activities. The minimum duration of the verification shall be three weeks. The process is financed by the fees paid annually by surveillance companies to Home Affairs. In addition, the 1998 law on classifications, security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice also provides for screening. That law, which was amended in spring 2018 and entered into force on 1 June 2018, extended the possibility of imposing security verification to numerous sectors of activity. As a result, security agents carrying out security-sensitive tasks in those sectors risk being subject to additional security verification. The minimum duration of the verification is one month and the cost is 50 euros per application. The double screening is expensive for applicants and it also reduces the flexible employability of surveillance agents. The waiting period increases from three to seven weeks. In addition, this leads to duplication of effort for the authorities concerned. Minister, are you aware of the double screening? How is it accounted for? How many double screenings were already carried out in 2018? Should we not try to achieve a single uniform security verification?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u62	Indeed, the Act regulating private and special security provides for a specific screening system for persons wishing to be active in the private and special security sector. The screening was already included in the private security legislation for the implementation of the Law of 11 December 1998 on the classification of security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. In 1998 it was decided to maintain the separate system in the Private Security Act. Indeed, the comparison of both regulations shows that the purpose of both screenings is not identical and therefore the assessment criteria may vary. For example, the purpose of the screening in the Private Security Act is to verify that the person concerned complies with the profile laid down by law. That profile includes that the person concerned must be able to control himself when confronted with aggressive behaviour. This characteristic is essential if we are to exercise the function of a surveillance agent, as it can be confronted on a regular basis with violent persons who are or are not under the influence of alcohol and/or prohibited substances. On the other hand, that criterion was not included in the law on the classification of security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice. People who need positive safety advice are not necessarily in contact with the public. Conversely, certain risks should be evaluated in the context of the safety verification carried out under the law on the classification of security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice, risks not registered in the Private Safety Act. In addition, the screenings carried out under the Private Security Act take into account not only data from security services, police and judicial services, but also the professional data available to the Private Security Directorate of the Home Office. Finally, I should also point out that an identification card as a surveillance agent provides general access to the private and special security sector, regardless of the customer where the agent is required to perform his or her performance, as opposed to the security verification requested when the person in question is required to work at a particular location during a specific event or for a particular customer. Therefore, both types of screening have their reason for existence. However, we will examine where further alignment of the screening methods and the results of the various screenings are possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u63	Indeed, Minister, it is particularly important to look at further alignment. For many companies, it feels like a duplication of effort. However, I understand that the assessment criteria and the finalities are still different. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u64	Minister, it seems that Belgians who live abroad and whose eID is likely to expire receive a letter to have their identity card replaced. To this end, a form must be completed indicating whether they wish to collect their new identity card in Belgium, or whether they wish to send it to their foreign address. The form literally states that, when Belgians are resident abroad and want to use their new eID to identify themselves on the Internet, they must personally go to their municipality in Belgium with their eID and corresponding PUK code or to one of the consular professional posts that I listed in the written summary of my question. Belgians abroad who do not reside in one of the mentioned countries cannot, in other words, consult data on mypension or myminfin unless they travel back to our country specifically for that purpose. Can no alternative be devised so that we can work more flexibly and accurately?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u65	Mrs Gabriels, you ask a very relevant question, even though the eIDs abroad are the responsibility of my foreign minister, Minister Reynders. In the 2005 Council of Europe conclusions, Member States decided to cooperate and define a number of minimum standards on the safety of issuing procedures. One of these is that the applicants for an identity card must appear in person during the issuing procedure so that the identity can be established. This is not currently the case for Belgians abroad, which means that the safety of the issue is lower than the minimum standard in Europe. That must of course be improved. For a travel pass, a Belgian must also physically pass abroad once to have his fingerprints captured. These certificates are needed to register with our e-government applications such as mypension, myminfin, tax-on-web and mine files. Moreover, if we are to have a digital signature, everything must be activated in accordance with international standards. To check all this, there is the annual audit of WebTrust and the biennial audit of eIDAS or Electronic Identification Authentication and Trust Services. The WebTrustlabel ensures that the browsers recognize our certificates as reliable. The eIDAS audit allows European regulation to recognise our digital signature as qualified, which means that it is equivalent to a handwritten signature. Both certifications impose strict requirements on both technical requirements and procedures, including the application process and the activation of those certificates. The postal method, as currently used for Belgians abroad by the FPS Foreign Affairs Department, does not meet these requirements, so that no certificates may be placed on the card. For Belgians abroad, a specific population group, the Federal Public Service Foreign Affairs, together with the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation, can find solutions to the precise problem, so that Belgians abroad can make easier use of our e-government applications without compromising the security certification of eID. My services have already discussed it with those parties and we are prepared to work together to find a good, safe and, above all, practical solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u66	Minister, many local areas were startled at the end of 2018, because the grants in 2018 were apparently not enough to compensate the local areas for people who went on NAVAP, which was the non-activity prior to retirement. The system is well-known and provides the local police areas with more costs, although subsidies were promised. In 2016, EUR 29 million was released. This amount amounted to EUR 35.6 million in 2017. In 2018, 38 million euros were released. However, as I indicated, the NAVAP grants proved to be quite inadequate in the third quarter of 2018. This was also the case for the fourth quarter. In view of the current period of current cases, the questions are as follows. What is the right budget for 2019? Can we assume that the grants will be sufficient in 2019 or will additional funds have to be allocated? How many additional staff will be subsidised in this way? In other words, will you be able to avoid the problem in 2019 or will the zones face the same problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u67	Mrs Gabriels, I confirm the amount of the announced grants for 2016, 2017 and 2018. The amount foreseen for 2019 is the same as in 2018. It is currently impossible to indicate how many additional staff will be subsidised. For the local police, the maximum amount will be 585 staff. That figure shall be determined on the basis of two grant conditions: have reached the age of 60 and have a preferential retirement age of 54, 56 or 58 before 10 July 2014 and have not reached that age before 10 July 2015. The figure mentioned above is the maximum possible number, but it will be reduced in any case. The other conditions of granting, 20 years of government seniority, a maximum duration of 4 years of NAVAP and the possibility of retiring at the end of that period, can only be checked after the police zones have submitted the file. Finally, 377 staff who were subsidised in 2018 will no longer be subsidised in 2019 as they no longer meet the conditions. It's a bit of a figure work, but that should clarify the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u68	It is, of course, a desirable system and it is a pity for the zones to be confronted with it at the end of the year. I would therefore like to call for a proper follow-up to the dossier, in spite of current cases, and to ensure in 2019 that the grants made are also subsidised by the federal government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u69	Definitely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u70	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 28185, 28186, 28187 and 28190 by Mr Vermeulen are converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 28193 and 28194 by Mr Vanden Burre were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir has been postponed to 28199. Debates of the European Parliament 28204 by Mr Maingain was dealt with under point 7. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 28215 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 28223 will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 28263 will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Vermeulen's 28275 and 28276 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre and Mr Thiébaut were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 28328 was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen has converted 28341 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 28345 by Mrs Matz was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon has converted 28348 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 28357 has been postponed. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 28359 and No 28360 by Mr Frédéric were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u71	Mr President, I would also like to turn a few questions, No 28376, No 28377 and No 28387.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u72	That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u73	Minister, six years ago, the Minister of the Interior was questioned about the numbering of private houses. At the time, the relief services complained of too many people not clearly indicating their street numbers on their homes, which could complicate their work. Indeed, although GPS is now used in the vast majority of cases, they are not infallible and the affixing of 'physical' numbers remains paramount. The mode of housing numbering is a competence of the municipalities. However, the federal authority requests that a series of directives be followed, including that a separate residential number be affixed visibly next to each door or other exit on the highway of any building inhabited or likely to be inhabited, unless it is a second exit, and the first exit is already numbered. In the reply of the then Minister of the Interior, it was confirmed that the emergency services were sometimes hampered by the absence of these numbers, or even by the absence of a plaque indicating the street name. The minister pledged to urge local authorities to improve the situation. Minister, six years later, can you take stock of this issue? To your knowledge, are problems of this type still encountered by some relief areas? Do you believe that further steps could or should be taken to improve the situation? I apologize for the length of the question and thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u74	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, at present the Internal FPS does not receive any complaints on this subject, but it is not impossible that problems can still arise on an ad hoc basis. Emergency power stations 112 and 101 have updated mapping, which is also accessible to emergency services. The municipalities have been made aware of always alerting the rescue services when a change of street name or housing number is planned. All of these changes are forwarded directly to the mapping provider to be integrated as soon as possible. The Home SPF raises awareness in the section "How to call?" the site www.112.be by asking to explain how to reach the place of intervention. In July 2017, the SPF launched a mobile app, App 112 BE, which allows very precise and efficient geolocation of callers according to their coordinates and not on the basis of an assumed address. In addition, the Inland FPS is continuously involved in projects to improve the tools and mapping available for rescue services. Luckily you did not merge communes!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u75	Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u76	Because there are often duplications (rue du Ménil, rue du Moulin, rue de la Gare, rue Basse, rue Haute, etc.).).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u77	Minister, you are particularly concerned too! Having said that, we had this work after the merger of the municipalities of 1976. Of course, the precursors who, like you, decide to organize a second merger are again confronted with this situation. That being said, it is important that you are able, through a circular for police areas, to insist on this point. It is also important for the factors, even if they are not within your remit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u78	Mr. Chairman, Minister, it is our responsibility that an impressive and disturbing number of police officers in the Royal Street building of the Federal Police have contracted illnesses in recent months. They seem to have been taken with high fevers and violent coughs. Diagnoses include Chlamydia pneumonia and Mycoplasma bacterium. In recent days, dozens of new cases have been reported. My question was tabled on January 14, 2019. So it's quite recent. When we know that this building is home to 3,000 people every day, it seems to me important to keep a close eye on the development of this situation. Minister, have you been informed of this? What, according to your information, is the true extent of this phenomenon? Is there any worsening or lulling? Have any measures already been taken? Depending on the changing situation, what opportunities exist to stem this epidemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Flahaux, the situation in the federal police building on Rue Royale, commonly known as the CAR, is closely monitored by various departments and the office of the Commissioner General. In June 2018, various notifications indicate that the diseases mentioned were diagnosed with workers. Later, at the time of publication of the article, no new cases had been reported. Since June 2018, no additional cases have been reported either through occupational medicine or through curative medicine. In order to verify whether the ventilation problems were the cause, measures were taken by an external firm. No diffusion by ventilation of bacteria harmful to health could be established. Chlamydia and Mycoplasma bacteria are transmitted by human contact. Provisions similar to those to be taken in the case of influenza, such as hygienic cough control and hand washing, must be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u80	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would also like to congratulate you on the speed with which you respond to the questions raised. Indeed, some of the ones I introduced that you were prepared to answer today are just January 17. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u81	I'm a bit of a part of it, but it's mostly because of my collaborators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u82	Minister, the difficulty in hiring new police officers is not a new development. Recently, it has come back to us that one of the avenues envisaged to counter this phenomenon was the possibility of performing paid internships. The aim would be to attract young people for the time of an internship, hoping to give them the taste to stay afterwards. In concrete terms, the police, the OCAM and the Crisis Centre will offer such courses and selections will take place next December. Minister, any initiative to make police more attractive and to create new vocations seems timely and welcome. I therefore fully support your initiative. Can you tell me the number of places that will be available during this first selection? Can you also tell me if these internships will all have the same duration? If so, what will it be? In concrete terms, what profiles will be sought? Will they be internships for people who are in or who have completed their studies? Finally, will this internship provide people who have completed it with a simpler access to training than traditional candidates?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u83	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the future paid internships will be organised under the Rosetta plan, the first job agreement. Their duration will be one year. Only functions of the administrative and logistical framework will be available for this type of training. These functions can be both administrative support and specialized (e.g. ICT). Candidates may not yet have completed their studies, but they may only be recruited on the basis of the highest degree in their possession. In addition, applicants will also be required to meet the conditions of the Rosetta Plan. The remuneration will depend on the common or specific level of the person engaged, linked to the diploma and job description. From a practical point of view, a needs assessment was carried out as part of the organisation of the Level S employment fair on 19 and 20 December 2018, in collaboration with the Vias Institute. At this fair, the federal police selected candidates. In concrete terms, 17 fixed-term contracts are being finalized. At the end of the internship, it will be possible for the candidate to apply for a regular external recruitment, either as a contract or as a statutory candidate, or to present the selection tests for an operational job. However, having been able to work for a year within the police institution gives him a definite advantage: knowledge of the functioning of the organisation, its tasks, etc. This measure will be financed on the basis of federal police personnel credits. The presence of the federal police at the Level S job fair has been the subject of several communications via various channels: Internet, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u84	Minister, I find this initiative excellent. I have been president, in my time, of the Haute Senne police zone, and I find that indeed, often, possible candidates have a priori about the work within the police. I'm talking about the police or the administrative and logistical staff. Anything that can help create a link, a bridge, between the police and the citizen, and give the citizen the urge to be a member of the police in the broad sense of the term, is an excellent thing. If this works, we should mention the idea of doing this in other police areas as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1020x.u85	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 28399 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 28401 by Mrs Ben Hamou was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 28418 and No. 28419 are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Frédéric's 28426 was postponed.
