ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u2	Colleagues, on 4 September 2019 died in Roeselare Luk Vansteenkiste, honorary member of the Chamber for the People's Union and Honorary Quaestor. He was 79 years old. Luk Vansteenkiste was born in 1940 in Lendelede. In 1968 he moved with his family to Wevelgem. He was the father of five children. During his history and law studies at the KU Leuven, he was already politically active in the Volksunieyoung people and in the Flemish People's Movement. Then Luk Vansteenkiste started working as a librarian at the Kulak and as a teacher at the Saint-Aloysius College in Menen. Head of list for parliamentary elections in the district of Courtrai in 1968, he was elected. He was the youngest Member of Parliament and was very active in the Communications, Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones Committee for ten years, from 1968 to 1978. He was also a member of the Committee on External Trade and Development Cooperation and later of the Committee on General Affairs and the Civil Service. In 1979, Luk Vansteenkiste left national politics to disagree with the Egmont Pact. He was known to the House for his acerbic but documented interventions. From 1970 to 1981 he was a communal councillor at Wevelgem. For the committed man who was Luk Vansteenkiste, a municipal mandate meant paying particular attention to social life. Until 1992 he was active as regional director of the social secretariat of the Flemish Economic Confederation. He was someone who was very passionate about his job, a man who gave substance to the word camaraderie, a warm and direct politician. He had a life of commitment and service. In the name of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u3	Luc Vansteenkiste died on 4 September of this year at the age of 79. From 1957 to 1965 he studied law, history, political and social sciences at the KUL. After teaching for a short period of time, he became a librarian at the University of Leuven on the campus of Kortrijk. Engaged at an early age, he was active in the Association of Catholic Students, Volksunia Youth and the Flemish People's Movement. In 1968 Luc Vansteenkiste moved to Wevelgem, where he was a city council member from 1971 to 1981. In that year he was elected to the Chamber and he continued to exercise that mandate until 1978. From December 1971 to December 1978 he was also a member of the Cultural Council for the Dutch Cultural Community. After the 1978 elections, he left national politics. In the name of the government, I offer my deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u4	May I invite the Chamber to observe a few moments of restraint?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u5	I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the motion for a resolution (MM. Michel De Maegd, David Clarinval and Mrs Nawal Farih) on Belgian financing for the fight against climate change, No 572/1. On the agenda for this afternoon's plenary session, I would like to present the motion for a resolution (Mr Michel De Maegd, Mr David Clarinval and Mrs Nawal Farih) on the Belgian contribution to the financing of the fight against climate change, No. 572/1, to be registered. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. May I invite everyone to reflect on the speaking time. It is a motion for a resolution and you know the maximum speaking time that can be used in this matter. I would suggest that the afternoon meeting should end at an orderly hour. I would therefore suggest that you do not use up the 30-minute speaking time, but that each group should respect a ten-minute speaking time. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u6	By letter dated 14 October 2019, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly. By letter of 14 October 2019, the Head of the King's Cabinet sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u7	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that you appoint the actual members of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that the permanent members of the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I be appointed. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) Thus shall be done. In accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees shall be made to the proportional representation of political groups. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of political groups. The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates. The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The composition of the commission will be published in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. I hereby declare the nominees elected. The composition of the committee will be published in the annex to the Integrated Report. I propose that the committee meet in room 1 after the plenary session. I propose that the committee meet in Room 1 at the end of the plenary session. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u8	The next item is Mr Loones' question on police violence in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u9	Mr President, Mr Loones' question is addressed to the Prime Minister, but we heard a few minutes ago that he is not here. We fully understand that he cannot join us when circumstances require it, as was the case at the European Summit last week. Then it makes sense. But if I'm not mistaken, it's the fourth week in a row that he leaves us. A person who is in his period of notice still has to fulfil some of his professional obligations. This is a generally recognised principle in labour law. It seems to our group that his activities in Parliament are regarded as secondary, and I would like to express my reservations. We very much regret that. I repeat that in the first three weeks we have shown our full understanding of this, but it is now beginning to become problematic, especially since the absence was announced very late. I do not know to what extent that absence is automatically justified, but I would nevertheless like to formally inform the Chamber of Parliament of our displeasure about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u10	I take note of that. The Prime Minister called me and said that he was unable to attend this afternoon, but he stressed that yesterday morning he was interviewed for two hours in the advisory committee on the results of the last summit. Members of the Advisory Committee on European Affairs can testify to this. Among other things, the issue of Catalonia has been discussed in detail. As far as your group is concerned, three Members have been referred to both in the question and in the reply. The Prime Minister stated there that the issue of Catalonia as such was not the subject of the European Summit agenda and that the questions that could still be asked, for example on police violence, on its judicial and police handling and would answer the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice. I'm not making myself his lawyer, Mr. De Roover. I wouldn't dare. I'll just pass on the explanation given by the Prime Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u11	Mr President, yesterday it was not only in the question but also in the reply, because there was no answer. One had to use the reply to push again. I understand that he has no other reasons than political reasons to be absent. He does not want to answer the questions. I thought he had an excuse, but from your answer I conclude that he doesn't have an excuse and that he's around here somewhere, but he refuses to answer the question. That makes it worse than what I thought. I thought he was indisposed. You say he doesn't want to answer and he just pushed the question forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u12	I didn't say that. That's your free interpretation. I said that the questions were put in committee. Non bis in idem. Unless there are new elements, the government still makes up its own mind who answers the questions. The Prime Minister has informed me that that would be Deputy Prime Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u13	Mr President, I fully agree with Mr De Roover. The Conference of Presidents normally comes to a political agreement on which ministers will be present. This morning it was clear that the Prime Minister would be present. I cannot get rid of the impression that the Minister is not here for political reasons, because he does not want to answer. The Minister did not reply yesterday in committee. One can agree with or disagree with the struggle for independence in Catalonia, but it is a question of repression of a movement in Europe. It is logical that the Prime Minister of one of the European countries should be able to be interviewed in plenary. Apparently, an hour before the meeting, it's decided here that he can't or won't answer. In my opinion, it has never happened in the last five years that a prime minister simply said that he did not want to give an answer and therefore does not come. Mr President, Parliament must send a signal: if there are any questions for the Prime Minister on such an important point, then that should be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u14	That is undoubtedly an important point, but once again, I am not taking up the defence. I can only conclude that yesterday, during two hours in the advisory committee on European affairs, the Prime Minister answered all possible questions in a very open manner, whether or not there was a satisfactory answer. In any case, I will inform the Prime Minister of the concern, Mr De Roover. Then I suggest that Mr Loones asks his question and Minister None answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u15	Mr President, Mr Michel, future President of the European Council, I assume that you will be listening to or watching something. Ladies and gentlemen, I am expressly not here today as an N-VA Member of Parliament. I stand here as a democrat, who consistently opts for political dialogue and against violence. What has happened in Catalonia over the past few days goes against our European values: brutal police violence, 592 injured, 18 people in hospital and 4 people who lost an eye because they were shot with rubber bullets. What is happening in Catalonia transcends party politics. What is happening there goes against the values we share in the European Union. In 2017 there was also such heavy violence by the Spanish police in Catalonia. Then we had a prime minister who condemned that violence. We then had a prime minister who was the first government leader in Europe to do so. He did so not even in his capacity as a leader of government but as a democrat, because it was simply neat to pronounce such a condemnation. Zijn tweet op dat moment luidde: "Violence can never be an answer. We condemn all forms of violence and we reaffirm our call for political dialogue." That was not a political position, but merely condemning violence and calling for political dialogue. My question today is simple. It's not a party political question. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, please allow us to move away from party politics on this point. Let us condemn this violence together. Let us choose the political dialogue. That can be very simple. We can send a signal. That's very easy. There's a message from our Prime Minister from 2017. I invite you all, as well as our Prime Minister, to retweet from his own message and to give the signal that such violence does not belong in our European Union. We are against violence and for political dialogue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u16	Mr President, Mr Loones, thank you for your question. Last week I had the honour of answering a similar question from Mr De Roover on behalf of the government. He focused mainly on the length of the sentences that were pronounced. On that occasion, I reminded you of the Belgian Government's statements calling for dialogue and responding to requests for dialogue in the case of Catalonia. I can refer you to this answer, because you also heard it last week. I can also repeat this answer in full, because the government is still of the same opinion. In addition, we know that I have just discussed it with Mr De Croo, who has also taken a position on the subject by the Flemish Parliament. I can only deal today with the judicial aspect of police violence. You know that on 14 October 2019 there was a severe conviction by the Spanish Supreme Court. This is an internal matter which concerns only Spain. Furthermore, there is the possibility of appealing to the European Court of Human Rights if human rights are considered to be violated. Last week I also referred to the arrest warrant issued by the Spanish authorities to Mr Puigdemont. I said at the time that, as always, the Belgian Justice will judge independently on this European Arrest Warrant. Since the ruling of the Supreme Court, there have been major demonstrations in Catalonia which have led to police interventions. Once again, it is not the practice for Member States to deal with each other's internal police relations in this area, but when legal proceedings are initiated in connection with these demonstrations, that is a matter for the Spanish courts, which can ultimately be reviewed at European level. That's obvious. It is the government's conviction that the Belgian Government cannot decide on an internal Spanish debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u17	Mr Minister, I was a Member of the European Parliament until recently. I am still a European Fleming and I am really worried about the European Union. Too often we hear that the European Union is more than just economic cooperation, that the European Union is also a union of values, a union that stands for something. In 2017, we also had a prime minister who stood for something and who dared to declare it loud, clear and visible to the whole world, as the first government leader of the European Union. Now we have a future President of the European Council and we see that all that courage and courage have simply disappeared. I am concerned about the European Union. If we do not judge all countries in the same way, it will not work. This transcends all political parties, it is an issue that concerns all democrats. What we are seeing today is simply blatantly embarrassing. There are no other words for it: a Prime Minister who simply dares not answer, who dares not stand up in Parliament for peace in a Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u18	Mr President, Minister of Finance, it has been ten years since the PTB hit the table to make it clear that it is completely unfair for multinationals to pay less taxes than any SME or any worker in this country. What happened? Minister, a year ago you said in this hemisphere that this would have been done. In February 2019, your answer was that there would be a minimum tax rate for the companies. Mr De Croo, you said in plenary on 11 October 2017: "We will end the levelling down by introducing a minimum tax of 7.5% for large companies and multinationals." That was the promise made by the right-wing parties to the people here. It would have been done with 0 % load, which would be at least 7.5 %. Ladies and gentlemen, we have calculated it. We have another top 50 of the 50 largest multinationals that have received the biggest discounts. At EUR 48 billion profits, these 50 companies paid EUR 800 million taxes, i.e. 1.7 percent. The average tax rate for these 50 large companies is 1.7%. Minister, you lied. You lied because there is no minimum tax of 7.5%. This is a shortfall of EUR 13.4 billion for public finances, while, as I recall, ladies and gentlemen, we are fighting today for the minimum pension of EUR 1 500 net per month. This minimum pension would cost 2.8 billion euros and you make a tax gift of more than 13 billion euros to big companies! Stop saying there is no money for workers' pensions! You don't want to give money to workers because you only give money to big companies!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u19	Mr Hedebouw, let me still, when you quote figures from the PTB's study department, have doubts. Instead of using slogans, as you do, I will demonstrate that your calculation is false. You do not take into account certain principles. For example, in taxation there is the principle of non bis in idem. This means that income that is already taxed somewhere cannot be taxed a second time. You may know that in Belgium, many companies are active at the international level. We are a small, open economy. We gain much from our prosperity in other countries. You do not take this into account because you say that what has already been taxed abroad must be taxed a second time. You do not take into account the fact that our companies invest heavily in innovation. This is the way we gain competitiveness. That's how we create jobs. I thought creating jobs was a priority for you. Yes, it is true that a tax deduction exists when you invest profits in innovation. And I think it's a good thing these companies are investing in innovation. Yes, that's right, we've done a corporate tax reform. Nominal rates have been lowered and certainly for SMEs. Moreover, the administration considers that this reform was budgetaryly neutral. For this year, total income is estimated to have increased by 6.4% compared to the previous year. You say that in Belgium, we are a tax haven. You know very well that's not true! When you look at the real rates paid, in Europe there are only three countries where you pay more than in Belgium. You're saying we're a tax haven. You are wrong and you know it very well! Mr Hedebouw, you are actually trying to play the game you keep playing here. You are trying to organize a kind of discord, a struggle between small and large enterprises, a struggle between workers and entrepreneurs. However, this discord only leads to one thing, namely that everyone loses. That's where you want to go, that everyone loses. On the other hand, we want everyone to move forward and we believe in an economy in which we work together and achieve results together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u20	Colleagues, you heard. There was no response to that 7.5 %. That 7.5 % was linked to a minimum attack rate and so everyone would have to pay at least 7.5 %, although there were many niches. You recounted the niches. However, the 50 largest multinationals paid 1.7 % and not 7.5 %. That's the first lie. Secondly, there are SMEs. The ISOC reform cost €5 billion. In your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, what percentage of this amount has benefited SMEs? I'll give you the answer, minister. Only 2.5% of the gifts that were made benefited SMEs. Indeed, the vast majority of these gifts were offered to large companies. You are talking about discord, but we are not inventing anything, Minister. It's the truth. We see all the managers of SMEs paying the full pot. They have to pay 20% or 25% each time, while the large multinationals pay 1.7 %. That is not right, ladies and gentlemen. That is something, Minister, against which the PVDA will continue to fight, until there is change. That has to change in Belgium, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u21	Mr President, Minister, 39 deaths were found in a container passed through Zeebrugge. First of all, this is a human tragedy. We would ask you to step up the fight against smugglers and customs controls. People are taking more and more risks. We would like to suggest that we should certainly check the refrigerators and other dangerous means of transport more systematically in order to save people's lives. Those people are obviously desperate. However, there is a second point. This illustrates the failed European migration policy. We cannot accept everyone, ladies and gentlemen, but there are people who want to come to Europe, who want to use their right to apply for asylum here, while we push them away. We want to keep these people out of Europe at all costs. There are hardly any safe access roads to Europe. Mr Minister, that is not how we are going to get there. We ask you to consider a fundamental analysis of European migration policy. We ask you to take steps in this area on the European stage. That is the fundamental message we are sending you. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u22	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, we have learned that an agreement has been reached between the European Union and the British Government on Brexit. It's a outcome we were waiting for. We are aware that it will involve many measures, particularly with regard to the free movement of goods and people. The reality we are facing is painful since we have learned that a truck registered in Bulgaria, which passed through Zeebrugge to reach northern London, contained 39 corpses. What is the exact information in your possession about this at this stage of the investigation? How long did the container stay in our country? Has it been checked? In general, are controls reinforced on the coasts of the English Channel? Ireland can be a transit country on all migration routes. In this context, what is the cooperation between our services and those of the United Kingdom? How will these services adapt or adapt to these new realities? Do we take note of the reduction in the legal channels of British migration policy? How can we, from that point on, better combat illegal migration and the human tragedies it causes?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u23	Mr President, Minister, there was a tragic event: 39 bodies were found in a semi-trailer of a lorry on an industrial site in the United Kingdom. The 38 adults and the teenager who were in that trailer, looking for a better life, died a terrible death. Today there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the precise circumstances. Where'd the truck come from? What trajectory did he make? What happened or didn't happen in Zeebrugge? So there are many questions to which very few answers have been given for the time being. Hopefully we will get more clarity soon. It is clear to me that every effort must be made to avoid such tragedies. Last year, Minister Jambon and Secretary of State Francken announced an eleven-point plan to combat transmigration. There would be closer cooperation with the United Kingdom. Operational support by the police would be strengthened. In addition, the port of Zeebrugge would also be better protected. A year after this plan, an evaluation is called for. Were the measures sufficient? Shouldn't the controls be stepped up now that the Brexit is at the door? The police have already announced additional checks, which, of course, seems crucial to me, especially now that the approaching Brexit creates a suction effect. People want to make a quick crossing, because it's gonna be even harder. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. How did the cooling container get through the control at Zeebrugge? Is Zeebrugge the weak link here? Is it true that it is impossible to use a heat scanner for cooling transports because cooling containers are sealed down hermetically? If so, what are the alternatives? Were the papers and the seal completely in order? Quid with the implementation of the 11 point plan? Are additional measures needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we all heard and followed the very sad news about the 39 lifeless bodies. Mr Minister, I must not hide from you the fact that I have sought to find the right tone for this question. I'm gonna keep my head down for covert statements. I certainly don't want to dance on a grave. But the least we can and must say is that recent events have made the problem of illegal transmigration extremely acute. Human smugglers aren't just about corpses, they make corpses. We can only hope for a very severe punishment. But, Minister, there is more. It must be said that the public authorities in general and the government in current cases in particular are in fact incredibly inadequate in all aspects of the problem of transmigration. When we listen to the speeches that are related to the Brexit, I miss the issue of the illegality of transmigration with Belgium as a turntable. It has already been evaluated: colleagues Jambon and Francken have fallen to the United Kingdom, four times, to make arrangements with the British, to secure the Channel intensively on both sides. However, it has remained deafeningly silent there. Mr President, the great human suffering, the security problems in the ports, but not only there, also in the car parks, the motorways and the industrial estates, require us to take a firm approach and, above all, to draw up a global plan. The N-VA has launched a bill this week to criminalise ascension in trucks. It is a small measure, but it can be an important part of a more global approach. Mr Minister, at the moment, the government's balance of payments is very negative: lost lives, unsafe situations, policemen telling me that it is mop-up with the tap open. There is no government follow-up to this problem. Hence my questions. What concrete measures does the government see in the scaffolding of this problem? Will the agreed master plan be implemented effectively? How can we please increase safety? I think and hope that the government finally realizes in current cases that passivity or 'omissivity' is absolutely not an option. It is high time we deal with the matter. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday 39 people were suffocated or frozen to death in England. No one can say. It was not the first time and it may not be the last time, but we are all convinced that this madness must stop. The circumstances are not known for the time being, Minister. However, it is certain that the truck has also passed Zeebrugge. The fact that those people would have climbed into Zeebrugge doesn't seem certain at all. On the contrary, it would hardly be possible. It's now up to the federal prosecutor to do his job. It's not the first time I've been standing here, Mr. D'Haese. For five years now, I have been advocating that the fight against trafficking in human beings should continue to be high on the agenda, because if there is trafficking in human beings, the result is usually death. That is why it is so important not only to give sufficient resources to the courts, but also to give the necessary resources to the police. There must be plenty of people here. They must have good material at their disposal. As far as the infrastructure in our port is concerned, it is only since September that we have to be honest about this. The scanner with heat detection works well, but then one comes immediately with refrigerators, for which that system cannot be used. It is also speculated that the seal would have been tampered with. We must try to find a solution for those smugglers who are ahead of us. That is why I have a few specific questions for you. Can you give us the latest state of play? What is being done today against the smuggling of human beings in Zeebrugge? Minister, can you confirm that, as in the last five years, trafficking in human beings is absolutely a priority for you and for this government in current cases? Will you take additional measures for additional manpower and infrastructure in our port? There is an increase in the number of people climbing into Zeebrugge. Does this have anything to do with the upcoming Brexit? Should we take additional security measures in response to the Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u26	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the death of 39 people in a container in search of a better life is a terrible tragedy. Unfortunately, it is yet another terrible tragedy as a result of a failing European migration policy. That is the first point I wanted to make. It is crucial that, in such a tragedy, we first pay attention to the families and relatives of the victims. It's totally out of place to point the finger at those victims and criminalize them. We do not know the circumstances, which led to that desperate step. We do know that there are criminal networks that exploit people's desperation. We cannot act hard enough against this. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already referred to it, there is some uncertainty about the circumstances. How did that happen? The container appears to have passed Zeebrugge. How did the control go there? Are there any gaps? Have any system errors been detected? Has an investigation been requested? I would also like to know how you evaluate the fight against human trafficking. In recent years, trafficking in human beings has become an increasing problem and the number of victims has increased. At the same time, we note that the number of recognised victims has fallen in our country. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the news, on behalf of the government and all its fellow countrymen, I expressed my deep regret to the ambassador of the United Kingdom and to the ambassador of the People's Republic of China, because the victims are Chinese nationals. The exact circumstances in which the drama took place are still unknown to us. They are now the subject of a judicial investigation, not only in Belgium but also in the United Kingdom. In consultation with the Bruges District Court, the federal prosecutor has launched an investigation and has declared an absolute ban on the communication of data relating to the drama. I'm gonna have to stick to that, too. I would like to point out that things are getting mixed up here. First of all, apparently the drama is not so much about an announced Brexit. That Brexit will happen later than we thought and the United Kingdom will remain until it has left, perhaps at the beginning of next year, with all the rights and obligations in the European Union. Secondly, is the United Kingdom an attraction pool for people from outside the European Union? It certainly is. Does the United Kingdom play an important role in transmigration as an attraction pool? No doubt. The problem is known; it is not new. These are people who knowingly do not want to apply for asylum and only have one intention, namely to get to the United Kingdom as soon as possible, and so they end up in the clutches of traffickers. We are once again seeing a case of serious abuse and degradation of human dignity by an international network of civilised traffickers, a phenomenon that we are fighting in Belgium. Belgium is indeed a transit country. It always has been, and it always will be. To those who have taken responsibility for four out of five years, I would once again like to ask where they were. What did I have to do when I found the department in early December? I had to transfer staff from other services to the province of West Flanders, Mr D'Haese, people who had been promised and who had not yet arrived. I had to send liaison officers to the United Kingdom. The promised capacity was not realised. I visited Jabbeke and Mannekensvere, on the territory of Middelkerke, in the short period I was there. I personally helped carry out the checks in Adinkerke and De Panne with France. That is what this is about, Mr Francken. In Zeebrugge, I have freed up the resources for the scanners and for the personal checks. You didn't do that. The N-VA didn't do that. Where were you? You weren't there the moment you could do it, and everyone knows it. That has nothing to do with political games, it is the political reality. We must be on the ground and do what needs to be done. That's what we did. No announcement policy! Mr D'Haese, that was also the case in Wetteren, at your request. We have carried out checks there for the first time. Secondly, the approach will either be European or it will not be. In an informal meeting with Mrs von der Leyen, I immediately pushed her with the nose on the facts. Belgium is a transit country, which has to do with transmigration and border controls. I would also like to include Mr De Vriendt in my reply. There is an organization that deals with this, especially Frontex. However, Frontex is active in eastern Europe and is not doing its job properly. I have committed myself to organising more people and resources for Frontex at the external borders of Europe on behalf of the Belgian Government. That's an answer to the question. In addition, there are many people on the territory who are not eligible for political asylum. For them, the United Kingdom remains an attraction pool. So people, manpower and resources have been used, much more than before, to control the problem in difficult circumstances. Have any incidents been ruled out? No. Are we waiting for the investigation? Yes. Are I prepared to come to the committee, to explain when the matter is being resolved and to show what efforts we have made? Definitely. That is what I am offering to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. However, you must not be blind to the pain points in European migration policy, which can lead to catastrophes of this kind. In Europe today, we are even doing everything we can to keep real war refugees out of Europe. We prefer to work with President Erdogan in Turkey and with Libyan militias, who lock migrants in prison camps. So people must take enormous risks to get into Europe, for example, to test or use their right to apply for asylum. This has also contributed to the drama that we are facing today. I would also like to call for a certain serenity in the debate. After all, I just heard a certain party make proposals to make it criminal if migrants want to climb a truck. Does one person in the room now think that it will stop a migrant from trying to climb a truck? The real gangsters aren't the migrants, the real gangsters are the human smugglers. That is what our approach must focus on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u29	Minister, thank you very much for this information. Let me note and regret the failure of European migration policies because of a lack of consultation and joint action. If, in Belgium, we meet all the criteria for asylum and migration, we cannot stop illegal trafficking in human beings or even firmly guarantee respect for them. It is clear that we must continue with all our strength to combat all forms of illegal trafficking in human beings. We must make every effort at European level to stop this phenomenon, while assuming the responsibilities of the Belgian State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. This is a shared responsibility. We must fight together. We must fight together against the smugglers of human beings. Making climbing in trucks a criminal offence is perhaps a first step and can have a deterrent effect. However, it is certainly not the solution to tackle the problem. A global approach is needed to prevent such terrible tragedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I listened very carefully to your argument. The tone or nature to which we refer the problems is somewhat different. It's the tone that makes the song [[.]] In your story, however, there were quite a lot of dissonances. I do not like you trying to shift the causes of the problems to colleagues in the past. If there are people who have been working to get a deal with Britain on security on both sides of the Channel, then that has been Theo Francken and Jan Jambon. The deal isn't gonna be finalized. However, they have traveled four times to Great Britain. We ask you to address the problem at European level. Close the deal . Make agreements on port security. In this way, we will not have to stigmatise anyone unnecessarily in the current poignant security issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u32	Mr President, Minister, we are a transit country. We need a European approach. However, we must also learn to try to get ahead of the smugglers. We must also invest in our people and in our equipment. You're right about that scanner. You made it work in September 2019. However, this measure appears to be insufficient. We need to find solutions to the seal, which the smugglers are trying to cheat on. We have to do that together so that the madness stops.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply, in which you indicated that you will use the necessary people and resources to avoid such tragedies here in our country too. You are pointing to the European level. However, the solution lies not only in better control of our borders, although it is essential. There's gonna have to be more. Migration must not be reduced to a security issue. She's also a humanitarian issue. You did not answer my question about the victims of human trafficking. So I will take my question to the committee. I would like to give a general message to Members. It is striking that the debate on migration leads to a lot of emotion, including in society. There is, of course, despair among migrants, but there is also fear among those who are afraid of the consequences of migration. As we have just said, smugglers exploit this desperation. We have to be tough on them. However, I would ask you not to exploit the fear. I would ask you, politicians, not to be brokers in fear, but in solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u34	Mr. Secretary, there are not enough policemen. The outflow is greater than the influx of new people. This problem has been discussed several times here. I would like to demonstrate that on the basis of an example. We all know that a number of jobs in the federal police zones cannot be filled out because the recruitment device, the link between the people who want to come work with the police and the available jobs, is not working. In Flemish Brabant the fast track is started. 120 people could start. A multitude of candidates were refused. Last week it was found that only 10 to 12 people succeeded. Now all those people who were first refused can start over. What kind of signal does this send? A study was conducted by KPMG. One of the conclusions of that study was that recruitment had to be worked on. You replied to a question in committee that recruitment should be strengthened and that there should be greater efficiency. Meanwhile, we were able to read in the newspaper this morning that the recruitment service is flat because new procedures are being introduced. The chief of staff has resigned and 25 people will call in sick, in other words they will stop. Minister, how can recruitment continue in the next few days and weeks? People have appointments. People are expected at the police school. How will that be guaranteed? Which issues of the KPMG study have been implemented in the procedures? Has the syndicateal consultation taken place on this issue? Is it correct that the ACV has started to lie down?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u35	Mr President, since December 2018, a reform of recruitment has been a priority. The recruitment concept had to be reformed. That has already happened at the end of 2017 under the policy of my predecessor. What do we want to do? We want to respond to the real needs: to recruit faster, to bring people to the place where they want to work, but also to recruit effectively for the integrated police, not only for the federal police but also for the local police. This has more or less been achieved because we have increased the number of recruitments, from 1,200 to 1,600. This actually means that over a period of about 5 years 2,000 additional people will be recruited. What, of course, cannot be done, and this has also been demonstrated by the KPMG study, is that people have to apply by letter for a job where they have to be able to be close to the people. In any case, this will no longer be possible in future applications. The'smooth track'.............................................................................................................................................................................................. There's no longer time for me. This is also the consign given. I am not going to say too much about the economic situation. We live in a hypercompetitive environment in which recruitment and crunching on the labour market has reduced interest in the job. We must therefore make the job more attractive. The role of psychologists is also important. I do not think that a 80-page report should be drawn up per recruitment to determine whether or not someone is suitable. I believe that a different form of reporting should be used and I am convinced that most candidates who apply are also suitable for the job. Are the psychologists off the hook? No way! Should the application field be changed? Sure you do! That is where I think things have gone wrong. In the negotiations I started and followed intensively for a year, it became clear to me that this was about a piece of shifting influence and power. I believe that the problem has undoubtedly to do with this. Three of the four syndicates agree with the proposals. I will propose a new round of negotiations myself and also a final round of negotiations. Then I hope to be able to go with the file to the nuclear cabinet in order to push recruitment to a modern and more human level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u36	Mr President, Minister, you and your predecessor have indeed made progress. As you know, the local areas are also interested in recruiting locally. Recruitments should be possible within a period of two to three months. I also hear this in your reply. It is time to move away from minimum services in that recruitment service in the short term and to move towards maximum services, so that maximum recruitment can also be achieved and new policemen can finally get to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the coupet fell on Monday: the 2020 health care budget was rejected by the General Council of INAMI. However, mutualities, health care providers and representatives of health institutions had agreed on this budget, certainly not so clearly. Dozens of meetings have been required to achieve this because of the budgetary straitjacket. The exercise was therefore complicated. But they had managed to get a concerted proposal – this word is important – and above all balanced. Nevertheless, this budget has not passed the bar. Why? Who didn't support him? You, the minister, are members of the government, on the pretext that there are not enough measures for the benefit of patients. Minister, let me tell you that the hospital really does not care about charity! You won't fool anyone. The proposed budget did indeed provide for measures for patients, whether in the area of dental care, hearing aids or medical guards. For your part, at what point did you care about the patients? There was an increase in the cost of visiting the specialist. For chronic patients and those with low incomes, you did not accept the postponement of the payment of the consultations or the advance of the price of the consultations. In the circumstances, excuse me for having to tell you that your argument is bullshit! In rejecting the budget, you did not take into account the fact that attempts had been made to avoid further savings in the sector. It is true that we wanted to make the pharmaceutical industry pay more, which you didn't like. Indeed, you prefer to make gifts to this area! Today, Madam Minister, the government has the hand. But do you think that the government in day-to-day affairs, the minority government, really has the legitimacy to impose a budget? I don't think so. That's how I get to my question. Minister, will you closely involve the democratically elected Parliament in the development of a budget for the benefit of patients, health care providers and the entire sector that has worked a lot?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u38	Mr President, Madam Minister, your vote yesterday at the INAMI General Council torpedoed the health care budget for 2020. What are you playing at? Indeed, your veto undermines consultation. Yet it is exemplary in this area. So your responsibility is very heavy. You justify your vote by arguing that the budget proposal submitted by the health actors would be supposedly intended for the structures, not the patients. Minister, how dare you? How can you claim that you are defending patients, even though you have been doing clear cuts in the health care budget for all these years? How dare you say that the means given to care structures and caregivers – working in the patient's home, in the hospital or in nursing homes – would bring nothing to the patients? Let me tell you here, on behalf of all of them, that these professionals are working on a daily basis to provide very high quality care and that they are under pressure. Every Tuesday, the white blouses mobilize, without being heard. Minister, I have repeatedly told you this in recent years: when the patient is placed at the centre of concern, quality care is essential, the working conditions of the healthcare staff must be acceptable and, finally, sufficient funding is required. You've decided to take your hand. Will you, yes or no, validate the decision of the General Council of INAMI? I'm telling you, minister, it's not too late. If not, what proposal will you submit to them? Moreover, are you in a position to make decisions, even though the government is in day-to-day business and Mrs Wilmès, Minister of Budget, keeps repeating that, for this reason, the government cannot rule on the budget? What decision are you going to make? I hope you won't opt for the worst: i.e., freeze everything and decide nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u39	Madam Minister, we read in the newspapers that the General Council of the RIZIV could not approve a health insurance budget on Monday morning. However, on 7 October, the Insurance Committee had almost unanimously approved the budget. Nevertheless, in the General Council, you removed that proposal from the table, without alternative and without compromise. You have therefore thrown the work of more than three months of hard negotiation into the paper basket in one movement. Many informal consultations and 23 meetings eventually led to an agreement that is supported by the sickness funds, the care providers and the health care institutions. At a time when there was a budget deficit, those people tried to find a budget in balance together. Madam Secretary, you should have such a motivated team of experience experts in your hands, but you clearly do not. You say in the press that the budget is tied together and that there is not enough or no attention to the patient. Well, I have looked at the proposal. In my humble opinion, it is indeed a reasonable proposal, with attention to the patient. By asking for a fair effort from the pharmaceutical industry, among other things, the Insurance Committee proposed a balanced budget, which did not impose new savings on the other sectors of health insurance. Thanks to this proposal, even a small margin of EUR 101 million could be released for new urgent initiatives for patients. Madam Secretary, what is your real reason not to approve the proposal? Why did you not adopt a proposal supported by the sector? What's your alternative? When will you come to this plenary session with this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, this has not escaped you, the white blouses have resumed the movement this morning. We understand them, because they have been waiting two years for recognition of their profession and better working conditions. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u41	Don't worry, I'll come to the question of the budget later. I paired the two questions. It was a context, but it is important. For the time being, nurses cover 11 beds while international standards recommend one nurse for eight patients. It is a question of well-being at work and of public health at the same time. In 2017, you allocated a budget of $100 million to raise salaries. In fact, this covers only one fifth of the needs. It is important to bridge the gap between the legitimate expectations of the sector and the resources allocated. You stated in Le Soir that "the healthcare staff must receive the recognition they deserve" and that, if the conflict persists, you will examine the measures to be taken yourself. The first thing you've taken is to block the health care budget this Monday. It is incomprehensible that a government in current and minority affairs prevents the adoption of a budget, whereas for the first time, unanimously, an agreement had been reached between mutual societies, trade unions and care providers to propose a budget with a real long-term vision that was balanced. Minister, why did the government refuse this budget? What is the next step for the sector to know what means it will have next year? What are you going to implement in the budget to answer the questions of the sector that is currently on the street?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u42	Madam Secretary, here we are. On Monday, at the General Council of the National Institute for Sickness and Invalidity Insurance, you deposited the health insurance sector in chaos. There's uncertainty on all fronts. There is uncertainty in the patients, because they don't know what to pay at the doctor, at the dentist, at the physicist, at the hospital. There is also uncertainty with the doctor, the dentist, the physiotherapist, the hospital, the logopedist, name all the care providers, because they don't know what they can and can charge anymore. Uncertainty asset is something we can spare as a toothache in health insurance. There is chaos and uncertainty, Madam Secretary, because on a blue Monday in the General Council you had to put your thumb up or down a bit like Emperor Nero. You unfortunately stabbed him down. Irresponsible, Madam Secretary! All your partners in health insurance patients' associations, doctors' associations, hospital associations, physicists' associations, logopedists' associations, as well as the mutualities, had developed a balanced proposal within budget standards, and with good things for patients, after difficult months of consultation. There was not even a single vote against in the Insurance Committee. The proposal was adopted almost unanimously. And yet, out of the blue, you put your thumb down at the General Council on Monday. That's very, very bad, for the patients and for the care providers, for the board of health insurance. Just as much, Madam Secretary, you said no to your partners' proposal, but that followed the great emptiness. You said no, nothing else. Perhaps you have looked at the House of Commons a little too much. That's what Brexitsaga said no, and then there was also the great emptiness and the great uncertainty. I come to my questions. Madam Secretary, there was very broad support within the sector. Only one party, which you seem to be very close to, the commercial pharmaceutical sector, was against. For the rest, everyone agreed with the proposal. Now, Minister, you are a minister in current affairs. The government you represent is still supported here by a maximum of one quarter of Members. It is impossible for you to impose a dictation on the RIZIV, on the health insurance system, from your ivory tower. It amounts to EUR 27.6 billion in funds for patients, for our citizens. Madam Minister, that is why I urge you to come to Parliament to resolve this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u43	Mr President, Madam Minister, recently, the INAMI Insurance Committee, composed of mutuals and health care providers, agreed on an amount of EUR 27.6 billion for the health care budget. However, this budget target had to be adopted by trade unions, employers and the government. In accordance with the procedure in force, the budget proposal was therefore put to the vote of the General Council of INAMI last Monday. The results of this vote were widely echoed by the press. The government abstained and the 2020 health care budget was not approved. You have already explained the overall reasons for this choice, and the government's position. First, we find the patient, of course, because it must be at the heart of our health care. According to your findings, this was not sufficiently the case here. Secondly, financial uncertainties. Indeed, the Budget Opinion of the Insurance Committee has many uncertainties. Finally, it appears that a number of legal provisions have been ignored. The Insurance Committee has indeed raised the budgetary objective and lifted the structural blockage, although it does not have the power to do so. Madam Minister, here are my questions. It appears that the budget proposal provided that almost all new investments would go to healthcare facilities and facilities, but almost none to the patients themselves. Can you tell us more? What exactly are the uncertainties identified by the government in the Budget Opinion of the Insurance Committee? What legal provisions have been ignored, and for what reasons, in your opinion? What exactly are the consequences of Monday's vote for patients, healthcare staff and hospitals? Can you reassure them? Can you tell us what the next steps are, and when do you think you can develop a proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u44	Mr President, Minister, what do we spend in health care? What are we saving for? Those are not simple questions or simple answers. Apparently, you didn't have the courage to make the right choices after all. It is clear that there was a supported proposal, as you have heard from colleagues. It is worrying that the only proposal before us was not adopted. This has been done to consternation of the whole health sector and the social partners, who expected you to have an alternative proposal ready. You have told the media that the care institutions and patients can sleep on both ears. Today I dare to doubt that. Silence is a decline in the health sector and that is on the patient's behalf. Both in the media and in the agreement itself, I could read that there were a number of positive choices in the agreement. Apparently, there was a proposal for reimbursement from the psychologist, reimbursement from the physicist, reimbursement from the dentist. It was also stipulated that the increasing expenditure on medicines for a particle should be borne by the pharmaceutical sector itself. In the current context, it was only normal to have that part of the rising costs borne as well. If you didn't think those initiatives were good or not for the benefit of the patient, why didn't you come up with an alternative proposal? If you felt that this could not be done within a budgetary and legal framework, why did you not do your own homework? The figures were known in June, you could have worked out an alternative proposal. Now you've cocked the people into the first seat. Hopefully we'll get another shot at second. Everyone now appears to be in uncertainty: the health sector and patients are in uncertainty. We now need constructive consultation, a dialogue that proposes an alternative. We don't need a round of arm wrestling, because that also puts the patient at a disadvantage. Madam Secretary, when will you come up with a new budget? How will you compile that budget? What does that mean for the content of the budget? Will the rising costs of medicines that people are asking for also be borne for a bit by the pharmaceutical sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen the time when there were hardly any questions about the health budget, while it is now a hot topic in the Chamber. The government has indeed taken note of the proposal of the Insurance Committee with a view to the healthcare budget by 2020. We have examined this proposal carefully, even if there were no budgetary table and partial objectives attached, but I suppose this is considered superfluous. We have come to the conclusion that it can and should be done better, in terms of content, budget and legislation. For me, the patient is still central. €101 million was allocated to a new policy, of which €19 million was allocated to the patient. Nineteen million euros out of 101 million euros for new policies and investments for additional care is too little ambitious, even too little in itself. If we look at what the Insurance Committee is proposing in terms of new policies and investments in our health care, these would go mainly to structures and institutions. For example, more than €33 million is foreseen for the increase of certain fees in addition to the indexation of 1.95 and almost €47 million is earmarked for structures, including the global electronic medical record. But a measure for women, as Mrs Tillieux asked in committee and which was decided in this House, namely the extension of the reimbursement of the contraceptive pill to young women up to the age of 25, is nowhere in the proposal. Decisions taken here in the Chamber, although in the period of current cases, which all parties have agreed to, are not taken into account. Secondly, following the advice of the Insurance Committee would mean that the budget deficit is growing sharply. Some members claim that the budget is tight, but in fact an invoice of more than EUR 300 million is being transferred to the public authorities and social security, without taking into account the fact that this amount needs to be financed. The proposal was not strong enough. Thus, 57 million savings were proposed for hospitals. Although it amounts to EUR 57 million, no measure was included. To achieve a proposed cost-saving measure of 95 million by the pharmaceutical industry, legislative amendments are required before January 1, 2020. You are well aware that parliamentary work has yet to begin. In other words, this timing is virtually impossible to hold. Instead of EUR 95 million, this measure may bring nothing. This means that the amount carried forward will be increased by EUR 95 million. That is the so-called savings that would contribute for two thirds, in order to balance things exactly. It goes without saying that this budgetary uncertainty also calls into question investment in new policies. After all, how can we consider financing this new policy if the measures that are supposed to generate money do not do so or do not do so sufficiently? I do not want to take the risk of having to make major adjustments in 2020 to the detriment of the patient. So there are also legal concerns, which have not been expressed by me, but first by the Committee on Budgetary Control of the RIZIV. That committee is the official body that controls proposals for their legality. For example, in its proposal, the Insurance Committee removes structural blockage, whereas only the General Council can take that decision. Furthermore, the proposal of the Insurance Committee does not follow the legal provisions when determining the level of the legal amount of the budgetary objective. That is why the government has decided to abstain. Mrs Van Hoof, that was done by general consensus, with your party's agreement, who is in the government until further notice. "Thank you," Mrs. Van Hoof. I am now taking the initiative to draw up a budget proposal and to submit it to the Council of Ministers. For me, it is important that there will also be tariff security for patients. This will indeed be discussed with stakeholders. Patients, care institutions and caregivers can rest assured, for them nothing changes. I've only dropped the word "chaos" here, in the political environment. So when people get scared, it's because you scare them. Nothing changes for them. As with other social security budgets, such as pensions, healthcare expenditure continues to go on, even if there is no budget. I will negotiate a budget proposal and I will submit it to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u46	Madam Minister, you have not convinced us. By rejecting this 2020 budget, you are once again flouting consultation. It's a habit of your government. By rejecting this 2020 budget, you are again listening to the alarm cry made by all actors - mutualities, healthcare providers, representatives of healthcare facilities. All say "stop" and the white blouses are still on the street today to denounce him. Madam Minister, you have achieved nearly 2 billion savings under the previous legislature. We are concerned that you are now free-kicked. For us, we have to change course. We need a long-term vision, certainly not in the short term. There is a need to raise the standard of health care growth as patients need it. The price increases for medicines are over! Minister, don't be the fosseur of our health care system!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u47	Minister, I'll tell you again in your eyes: you shock me! You shock me when you say that the budgets and advances that can be made for hospitals, care facilities and health care personnel, do not bring anything to the patients. This is totally unacceptable in the face of daily commitment and pressure on white coats. Minister, you're quoting a lot of numbers. You're mixing things up a little bit. You're giving us a lot of justification attempts. It doesn't answer anything. I'm telling you very simply; it's not too late. Changing your mind is proof of intelligence. I propose that you re-engage the dialogue with the health sectors. It is with them that you must close a budget and not alone in your corner, especially since the government is in day-to-day business and the Minister of Budget keeps saying that it is not possible to achieve budgets. For the provisions that would translate a budget with the health actors, we, as parliamentarians, must commit ourselves to be able to translate them into texts quickly, provided that it is validated by the health care sector and that it relates to both caregivers and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u48	Madam Secretary, I am not satisfied with your answer. By voting away this agreed agreement, this minority government is not only pulling its weight in current affairs, but you are also putting the consultation model completely out of play and you are also pouring patients, caregivers and care facilities into extreme uncertainty. The real reason is not your concern for the patient. The real reason is not that the budget is incorrect. The real reason, Madam Minister, is that you are taking up again for the pharmaceutical industry, which since 2015 has been spending hundreds of millions on the allowed budget every year, even with EUR 400 million last year. You say in the press, very populist, that you stand up for the patient, but in reality you stand up for the farmareus and let us call a cat a cat for the 'farmafia'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u49	Madam Minister, not only have you not answered all my questions, but I do not agree with the only answer you give me. Structural measures must be taken. The work done by the Insurance Committee has provided real progress. You can't sit on it! Let it hold, you have a second chance. Since you have a hand on the budget, you can still propose one that is as close as possible to the one proposed by the Insurance Committee and that will perhaps meet the demands of the health care staff; a staff who are in arrears and who, therefore, are unable to adequately treat the sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u50	Madame Hennuy, Mrs Sneppe, thank you! Je vous remercie pour votre maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u51	Madam Minister, I must correct something first, your support in Parliament is even less than a fourth. I would like to thank Mrs Van Hoof for that. Furthermore, you must show the necessary intellectual honesty and you must not stand here lying. You can't do that. The word "chaos" is in the press release issued after the General Council by the partners with whom you intend to negotiate. So you cannot say that we invented that term, it is your partners themselves who accuse you of creating chaos. I shall now turn to the legal objections. Madam Minister, you yourself referred to the fact that there is a government commissioner on the Insurance Committee, your head of your cabinet. It is precisely the job of that government commissioner to monitor the legality of what the Insurance Committee proposes. However, your Government Commissioner made no comment when approving the advice of the partners in the Insurance Committee. You also say that there are no budgetary tables. Madam Minister, you know that the General Council is obliged to set partial budgetary targets. These are, of course, budgetary tables. They are obliged to do so and they have done so. They have divided the cross-cutting objectives for the whole of health care into partial budgetary targets. Madam Secretary, it's a little late, but I'm glad you've now discovered the patient's importance. Unfortunately, this only happens in a period of current cases. Mr President, I will conclude with one final point. Madam Secretary, the budget is a misdemeanor you're quoting here. The 2019 account of the RIZIV is likely to end positively. Do you know why that is? This is possible because all other sectors are making the effort to eliminate the budget overruns you are organising for big pharma. Despite everything you allow for the pharmaceutical sector, they ensure that the budget is not exceeded. You're going to punish them for that now. Madam Minister, they are now proposing a very small effort by the pharmaceutical sector, but it seems to be too much for you. Madam Secretary, I suggest you return to the Minister of Health, Minister of Health. You shouldn't be a minister for the profits of big pharma.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. When I hear some voice carriers, I want to call for more moderation. We don't play with people's fear, even if we're approaching Halloween. We have a certain responsibility. As some would say, caring for people and their concerns, it is not playing with their fears or surfing on them - and certainly not in the field of health. I hear accusations and invectives. We see the game of the one hitting the strongest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u54	Minister, thank you in advance for keeping the patient at the centre of your budget priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, if the proposal were not good, even for the government partners, then you could have provided an interim solution. You had the opportunity to do that. Now months have passed with 23 meetings and a number of informal meetings. However, the government partners encourage you to take action. Now there is only uncertainty, especially among patients and care providers. You were very quick to blame the healthcare sector. However, it is important to come up with a solution very quickly. That is the challenge you face. You say that there were legal and budgetary constraints. I can follow that reasoning, but you also have a legal responsibility. You must draw up a draft budget and I hope that this will be done in consultation after a constructive dialogue. You didn't do your homework. The care sector has guided you in first place. I hope you succeed in second seat, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u56	Mr. President, Minister, this Thursday is a particularly difficult day for patients in this country, as they have to follow a true combatant's path in order to be able to be properly treated in our various institutions. Hospitals are closed, consultations are cancelled and operations are cancelled or postponed. This situation is the result of a day of strike and actions taking place throughout the country, at different hospitals or at rest homes. The purpose of this strike is to force employers to implement the non-market social agreement that was reached more than two years ago. This agreement is still not transposed into collective labour agreements due to the lack of sufficient budgetary margin. The healthcare staff, therefore, are clearly paying the costs of a fiscal austerity policy that has been practised by your government with all public services, including health care. It is not a question of frightening citizens, but of telling them the truth about the policy that has been carried out over the last five years. This budgetary justification is particularly inaudible to health-care workers, because they are subject to infernal rates, because they can no longer have an increasing and increasingly technical workload. This health care staff can no longer even recover their overtime. Madam Minister, you have stated that if this conflict between employers and staff gets bogged down, you would be prepared to examine for yourself the actions that need to be taken in place of the directorates. Can you tell me more about the steps you intend to take or have already taken to bring together the various protagonists around the table and to ensure that this 2017 social agreement is finally fully implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u57	Minister, just three weeks ago, I was asking you in plenary about the alarming situation of nurses. I asked you to hear the noises of the street. I was asking you not to be deaf. Today, what do we see? These screams have been amplified by a strike action of white blouses who are literally full of them and who have no choice but to take strong measures. In front of many hospitals, there are now pickets. The claims are known. You know them and they're legitimate. Obviously, you can't hear them. If you don't hear, I hope at least you can see. In that case, I invite you to go to a hospital this weekend. Go through the door and realize for yourself the suffering and difficulty that caregivers encounter at every moment, because of the lack of sufficient framework, the lack of sufficient means to provide the health care these workers want to give! Take the opportunity to ask everyone what their salary is, what their salary was at the beginning of their career and now! You will then see that it has changed very little or not at all, while they are being asked more and more, for lack of sufficient framework, and that they are being made more and more responsible. The consequence is obvious. The consequence is a leak. Many nurses change jobs, not that they don't like their jobs, but they can't. It is also a clear decrease in the number of young people involved in medical training. Finally, it is increasingly difficult to find staff for replacements. Madam Minister, you are going to tell me that you did not wait for me to take strong action and that two years ago you made a strong social pact, particularly on the stability of working hours, holidays, but also on training. You will also say to me: "Mr Rigot, I did not wait for you to refinance up to EUR 100 million in order to allow the wage increase." I will tell you, Madam Minister, that it is very good, but that two years later we still see nothing. I will also tell you that 100 million is not enough and that it would take at least 400 to raise wages. My question is simple, Madam Minister. How long will it take to see a real improvement in working conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u58	Minister, as chairman of the Health Committee, it seemed to me important to meet with hospital workers this morning to listen to them. These workers touched me because they can't. Everyone complains about the overload of work. Imagine, for example, Françoise, at night, in a psychiatric hospital, alone with 52 patients. Or Julie, employed in a general hospital, saying she doesn't have time to take care of people, to explain to them what she does, to answer their questions and needs: "We have to do everything so quickly that it becomes abuse and suffering for us who have chosen this profession for its social and human character." I understand that patients are important to you, minister. A small leaflet was distributed in a public hospital in Namur, in which the following formula can be read: "Rase the bowl, at the end, but present for you." That is the attitude of the workers in the sector. The malaise is very profound, as well as in nursing homes and home care providers. It is your austerity policy that is at stake, as well as the incessant savings in social security made by this government and previous governments. Remember that one third of the hospitals in this country are in the red and we have one nurse for 11 patients. The European average is 1 in 8 and the Scandinavian countries count 1 in 5. Minister, have you met with staff representatives? If so, what were the conclusions of this meeting? What is at stake today is a social agreement signed in 2017. It was about giving the staff an oxygen bubble. The demands were not exaggerated: the possibility of taking two consecutive weeks of leave to blow a bit, better job stability, stable working hours to better reconcile family and professional lives, and a salary increase. Employers' federations have been refusing to apply this agreement for two years. I was able to read that you regretted this situation. What do you intend to do about it? A budget has been made available to raise wages. Unfortunately, it is only one fifth of what is needed. Trade unions question the actual use of these means and call for transparency. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u59	Colleagues, the staff are rightly demonstrating. Indeed, it takes too long to implement the agreement of 25 October 2017. A multi-year tripartite agreement has been concluded between the Government, employees and employers. Under this agreement, the government released more than 400 million euros between 2017 and 2020 to raise salaries and strengthen the second pillar of the nursing pension. In addition, measures have been taken to improve the working conditions of the staff: in particular the general right to at least two consecutive weeks of leave, including three weekends, the introduction of a system to lead to more stable working hours (their first request), the agreement to dedicate additional resources, which were injected into the social Maribel following the tax shift, in the first place to the strengthening of mobile teams. There have also been clear agreements on the following phases of improving wage conditions. It is up to the social partners to make a proposal on this. Almost two years later, unfortunately, I can only note, like the common front, that there is still no proposal in the 330 Joint Committee. That's the problem! Social dialogue is failing here, because there is no agreement between the syndicates and the employers. Obviously, the discussions are very difficult. We've already had meetings with the unions and not with the employers. They said everything was blocked. I would like to point out that the federal government is not targeted and that it has always respected its commitments. Money is always available. It is therefore quite normal for us to expect the same from the other parties concerned. We have released a budget so that we can continue to improve the working conditions of the staff and it is time for things to move forward. I therefore call on the partners to quickly finalize the necessary agreements so that we can move on to the next phase. But if the partners fail to make a proposal in time, I will have to examine the alternatives to assign staff what has been provided for in the multi-annual agreement. After 2020, the unspent budget will be lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that you believe that the strikers are right. But that's not what they want to hear. You finally send the ball back to the social partners. It's just unacceptable. You have a responsibility to act proactively on this issue. Indeed, the current situation depends on the measures you have taken yourself, in particular by reducing the length of stay in hospitals. It is this type of measure that has had the effect of increasing the workload of nurses. You should be aware of that. You did not, in parallel, make sure to upgrade the nursing profession, while this upgrading was provided for black on white in your government agreement. I want you to gather all the partners around the table. You have a role to play. You must ensure that these collective labour agreements are signed, and that the attractiveness of the nursing profession is real. You must allow patients access to truly quality health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u61	Minister, let us not be deceived; I hear you pointing out the responsibilities of all, the unions, the employers. But let's be serious! What I'm pointing at is your responsibility, minister. Indeed, by structurally underfunding health care institutions, you are depriving them of the means to implement this two-year social agreement. Your responsibility is at stake when you do not make arrangements to change supervision in hospitals and you do not allow hospitals to have the necessary means to put enough staff at the bedside of patients. It is also your responsibility when you release only EUR 100 million to raise the salaries of nurses when it takes 400. Please, let's stop the tetrapilectomy! I'm asking you to finally hear the street. If you don't, be sure there will be other opportunities. As they say, never two without three. You'll hear me again!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u62	Madam Secretary, it must be the first time I have heard a member of the government congratulate himself on a strike. That's all right, but I was at the strike stations this morning. Unfortunately, your name has also fallen on the public hospitals. The reforms have not brought about any improvement. You have taken a number of measures, but I fear they were drops on a hot plate. In reality, on the ground, people don't really see a difference. They see no improvement either in the private sector or in the public sector. The previous speakers have also said that it must be done by rolling out the red carpet for the pharmaceutical industry, at the expense of our social security, at the expense of pharmaceutical prices. The other sectors are getting some crumbs and have to do with less and less.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u63	Congratulations on your first speech, Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u64	Minister De Block, yesterday suddenly there was great joy with Flemish Interest. We read in the paper in great detail: "Maggie De Block will put asylum seekers on boats." Finally, we thought of Flemish interest, we will finally put all the asylum seekers who have been processed on boats and return to their country of origin. But then we read beyond the title. Turns out what? That boat that you are putting at hand does not serve at all to send out processed asylum seekers and illegal migrants back to their country of origin. No, that boat is intended to accommodate additional asylum seekers. In 2015 the same mistake was made, but after a year they were wise enough to send the boat back to the Netherlands. You, Minister De Block, are making the same mistake again. You don't seem to be learning from the mistakes of the past. You are sending a wrong signal to the many smugglers that Belgium will buy it, while the rest of Europe has long since stopped doing so. That raises a lot of questions, Minister De Block. How is it that we can create places for asylum seekers everywhere so quickly, but it is so painfully slow to create places in closed return centres? How come the Netherlands doesn't seem to need that boat and can rent it out to us, when we do need it urgently? How is it that there is apparently no asylum crisis in the Netherlands, but in Belgium it is? Have the asylum procedures finally been shortened? I have asked this question several times, because I think it is important that we address the problem in terms of the causes, rather than always combating the symptoms. Last but certainly not least, we read in the newspaper that the interpreter who worked at the asylum centre in Lubbeek must now go to court for terrorism. The facts show that this man wanted to buy illegal weapons and chemicals and that he explained the following about all Belgians. I quote: "I will cut off their hands and then bury them alive one by one." My question is therefore pertinent, Madam Secretary. Will the staff you will put to work in the new reception centres be properly screened this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u65	Mr Van Langenhove, as announced yesterday in the press, a reception centre in the port of Ghent will be operated from December, in particular on a boat. The center will accommodate 250 people. During the previous asylum crisis, the centre was operated by a private partner. This time, Fedasil will take control of it himself. All this happens in close consultation with the city of Ghent and everyone involved. You always ask the same question. Indeed, I have been able to provide more staff to the asylum authorities. Those employees have completed their training. Our measures are starting to pay off, because the procedures are getting shorter and the number of files handled by DVZ and CGVS is increasing. I hope that the outflow from our reception networks can also increase. The influx was not so high for a long time, but we have seen an increase in the number of asylum seekers since last summer and certainly in recent weeks. I will reassure you, the Netherlands also shares in the blows. I met my Dutch colleague, Minister Knol. It asked for bilateral consultations. I also saw her in Luxembourg at the JAI meeting. The Netherlands and Luxembourg also face the same problems. That doesn't make us happy. We would all prefer not to have problems, but we cannot separate the situation from the worrying developments in Syria and Turkey. We find that it is the Eastern European route that brings more people to us. We continue to focus on distress campaigns and faster procedures. Whether you like it or not, Mr Van Langenhove, we have no choice but to follow international rules for the protection of people on the run. I realize that you have all kinds of fantasies about this, but I, as a minister, as a Member of Parliament, elected in a democratic way, just like you, respect the laws of our country and the international rules governing the protection of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u66	Madam Minister, that is a great deal of substance to respond to one minute, but I will do my best. First of all, you are talking about the previous asylum crisis. By doing so, you implicitly admit that we are now facing a new asylum crisis, an asylum crisis which apparently is not continuing throughout Europe, but is a very Belgian phenomenon. You also talked about speaking with the city of Ghent, but I wonder if the people of Ghent have been consulted about the fact that their city, which is already suffering from huge debt mountains due to decades of socialist government, will now have to put another EUR 727,000 on the table for the support of asylum seekers. That is still separate from the federal funding, which is also included. Don't yell at me like that. Everyone realizes that the city of Ghent is facing very large debt mountains. Madam Secretary, you say that you would rather focus on the return and that you do not want any problems. But, Madam Secretary, wanting is possible. If you want, we can. For example, support the bill of Flemish Interest to finally accommodate asylum seekers in closed return centres, so that if their procedure is rejected, they will automatically return to their country of origin. You say you have no other choice, but there is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u67	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u68	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Vanbesien and Mr Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u69	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u70	Mr Vanbesien also refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u71	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (294/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (294/4) The bill has 12 clauses. The draft law has 12 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Piedboeuf and Mr Vanbesien.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u74	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take advantage of the debate in plenary to raise an element which has been included in the introduction of the legislation before us today and which has been debated with the minister in committee. This concerns the Régie des Bâtiments. We have been conducting hearings in the Committee on Finance and the Budget and in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions for a few weeks now. I'm glad. My group is also at the initiative of most of them. But we must realize that today the accounts of the Régie des Bâtiments are not in order. We are told by the Court of Auditors. The federal state's real estate valuation today is not reliable. Yet it is the heart of business, business, management of the Régie des Bâtiments. We discussed it with the minister, with other ministers as well. This subject has been too often under political radar. Under the last legislature, too little control was taken over the reform of this institution. I told Minister Jambon at the time. Today, the situation is really worrying, whether in terms of reliability of accounts or real estate valuation. Yesterday, in the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions, the hearing was held of the financial inspectors who made an audit report on a past case, the one related to the move of the federal police headquarters, and they also commented on the current situation. It is important to improve it and they still have great concerns about it. Today, a new accounting system is being put in place with the support of SPF BOSA, but according to these inspectors, BOSA had to take the lead on this project. Apparently, that's not the case. I take this example not at random because it's accounting, but because I stayed with yesterday's hearing. Many problems remain and we, as parliamentarians, are not in a position to rule on these accounts because they are unreliable. That's very worrying. As I have already asked the Minister for Budgets, every six months in the parliamentary committee must be monitored for progress. There is a transformation plan and reforms are under way, but Parliament needs to be informed very precisely. We ask for a very regular reporting - I propose every six months, but we can imagine something else - with the Court of Auditors and the Finance Inspectorate. This is really the case with the proper management of public money and the state's real estate assets. In these circumstances, my group will only be able to abstain from this text. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draw your attention to this particular problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u76	Mr President, I just want to respond. I assume Madam Secretary will tell you the same thing. The accounts of the Government of the Buildings are not included in the draft law. We will therefore not approve them. Neither can we. They were not submitted in time. I agree with Mr Vanden Burre and we also agreed yesterday in committee that, firstly, there will be a regular report on the action plan of the Directorate of Buildings following the audit of the Finance Inspectorate on the state of the Buildings Regie, which is not good. Secondly, there will also be a report on the implementation of the new accounting plan that the Regie is now trying to work out by 1 January 2020. However, I assume that this deadline will not be met to our grave regret. We also receive a report, to see if the accounts 2018-2019-2020 can be submitted in time for the next draft laws. I repeat: we do not now approve the accounts of the Government of the Buildings. They are not included in the draft law before us. We could not agree to that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u77	Do Members wish to speak in the context of the general discussion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u78	Mr. Chairman, we discussed at length the accounts and the difficulty for the Régie des Bâtiments to comply with its obligations. There was, of course, also a discussion of the problems posed in terms of the valuation of its assets. However, in committee, I made it clear - as Mr Bertels pointed out - that this proposal for approval of the general accounts does not concern the Régie des Bâtiments. Therefore, you cannot justify your abstention by invoking this body. During the discussions, we explained why the Régie was unfortunately not included in the documents to be approved. In view of the various problems, it could not be certified by the Court of Auditors. We also recalled everyone's responsibilities and duties in this area. It is important to know that BOSA (Beleid and Ondersteuning/Strategy and Support) acts as the support of all organizations that must be consolidated in the long term - that is, in 2021 - but it is not responsible for the content of the information delivered. He now has the responsibility of collecting and, in 2021, consolidating. As such, and as usual, BOSA makes available its know-how and supports the various bodies - of which the Régie is part - which is therefore responsible for the content. As Minister for the Budget, I am obviously at the disposal of Parliament if he wants to ask me questions, but I cannot comment on matters that fall outside my purview. That is why I cannot subrogate Mr Geens, in this case, in his task of monitoring. If, however, the Committee on Finance and the Budget wishes to address this issue, I am at its disposal. That said, for a full and effective exercise, it was important that the commission should be able to welcome the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, as well as the deputies responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u79	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u80	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (199/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (199/4) The bill has 5 articles and annexes. The draft law contains 5 articles and annexes. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are colleagues Bayet and Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u83	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u84	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on Thursday 18 July 2019 we all, in this hemisphere, adopted the first law of the new legislature. It concerned the law on provisional twelfths for the months of August, September and October. My group approved that law at that time. We said at that time that it was not heartfelt. The provisional twelfths are based on the 2018 budget, a budget that my group has not approved because it contains things that we do not agree with. However, we have approved the provisional twelfths based on that 2018 budget. We have done so to ensure that the country is not blocked and to show our sense of responsibility. Today we are again here to approve the next provisional twelfths. I'll be right back on this. First of all, I would like to say something about the budgets of the federal agency for the reception of asylum seekers. The last few weeks and months have made a great deal of sense of this in this House. Both during the debate in July and at the committee meeting two weeks ago, the N-VA wanted us to believe that the budgets for Fedasil were falling apart. During Mr Francken's policy, everything was under control, but with Mrs De Block's open border policy, Fedasil's budget increased by over EUR 100 million in 2019, they claimed. Shame on a government in current affairs, they said. Colleagues, during the debate in July and two weeks ago, it was explained that Fedasil made use of a reserve of 112 million euros in 2018. This is money that was used, but not on that one line in the 2018 budget. The comparison of the N-VA is therefore absurd. I wonder if the N-VA will come up with that story again today. And if that is the case, I can only conclude that the N-VA is deliberately using a falsehood here, with the sole intention of putting this Parliament on the wrong track. That is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say something to Mr Verherstraeten, who is no longer present at the moment. I remember him making an interesting and constructive proposal in July. At that time, he launched the idea of approving a kind of emergency budget, nothing extensive, but an instrument that would be a better vehicle than the provisional twelfths with which we are now working. I can tell Mr Verherstraeten and his group that our group has examined and discussed this proposal in depth, but that we have come to the conclusion that, from whatever point of view, we are always bumping into the same obstacle. If a budget is to be drawn up, even if it is an emergency budget or a mini-budget, then it means making choices. I am convinced that our group would make different choices than, for example, Mr Dedecker or Mrs Pas' group. That is why we do not see at the moment how this can be done. In the meantime, I have also heard Mr Leysen make proposals in the same direction, in order to draw up an emergency budget. We remain interested in this and if CD&V or Open Vld take an initiative in this direction, we are certainly prepared to cooperate constructively. Today, however, this is not the case. And so, Madam Secretary, we return to the provisional twelfths. Our group will approve the provisional twelfths this time too. However, I would like to make it quite clear that the desire and conviction with which we are going to do so has become a lot smaller. In the meantime, we are no longer the only ones who have problems with this, and the European Commission has also sent back the draft budget with the question of making it better. The title of the measure, provisional twelfths, implies that this is a temporary and technical way of making the country run while politicians are making every effort to form a government with full authority as soon as possible. But of course, that's where the shoe pinches. Since May 27, it is clear which camps the ball is in. We are now five months later, and of the parties of Mr Laaouej and Mr De Roover, there has been no one who has kicked the ball properly to get things moving. So I ask Mr De Roover and Mr Francken's group to move, kick that ball and go after it. If you really don't feel like it, pass the torch, but do something, because our country urgently needs a new government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u85	You may all applaud, ladies and gentlemen, because it was Mr Vanbesien's maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u86	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can make a number of observations today. The budget is out of balance, the economic engine in our country is sputtering, the historical difference between the economies of the different regions is rising and the Brexit threatens 42,000 jobs in our country. At the same time, there are many challenges. If we look at the ageing population alone, it will require an additional 17 billion by 2040 to pay pensions and health bills. The European Commission is also warning our country that the deficit has risen by 0.3% instead of 0.6%. Therefore, today is not the time to unpack with flodder tweets or gratuite polarization. It is time to get on with the team, take action and draw up a full budget. This requires, of course, a government, and our appeal to the actors in the field is to take action. Preliminary appropriations not only require a lot of administration and paper, but also ensure that meaningful innovations and investments are made and the budget is decommissioned. That is why our objective is to achieve a balanced budget, so that the invoice is not passed on to future generations. We want to focus on jobs so that revenue for the government increases, expenditure decreases and, above all, people's purchasing power increases. We want to focus on fair taxation, without going into tax tsunamis. Above all, we want to spend the euro very efficiently. Colleagues, with a succession of provisional appropriations, there is no question of good governance; this could have been avoided. CD&V wanted to finish some yards and has acted as a reliable partner. Today, of course, we shall be voting in favour of the draft preliminary budget. It is now time to abandon the campaign, to put the polarisation aside and to look for solutions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u87	Mr Matheï, congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we are here to comment on the provisional twelfths in a context, this time a little specific. Indeed, the framework is somewhat special since we have received the bulletin from the European Commission, which is not really positive. It is even a bad bulletin that has been allocated to this government for its budget or – I should say – to these governments for their budgets. Sophie Wilmès, our Budget Minister, told the press that if she had tabled a budget in deficit or went to a deficit at the European Commission, it was because: "We have handed over a budget with unchanged policy." In doing so, Madam Minister, you recognize that a policy that is unchanged, a policy that is no different from the one you have pursued over the past five years, is a problem. We must therefore change our policy. But that's what you've been told for five years, Madam Minister. We must change our policy because you are wrong with this liberal policy of imposing austerity on the population and giving gifts to the employers. I thought the Minister of Finance, Mr. De Croo, would be present in this House to take part in this budgetary debate. His responsibility is not sluggish, since he is still responsible for the revenue side of the budget. Mr. De Croo said in the press: "A government in day-to-day affairs does not have the power to define a real budget." However, I would remind you, Mrs Wilmès, that, when you were not in business, you were already postponing the return to balance every year on the assumption that things would be better the following year. Is there a need for a government, as members of this government say in day-to-day, minority, post-electoral affairs? In any case, there is no need for an unchanged political government. Because you have a double catastrophic record. First of all, there is the budgetary balance sheet that you are accused of by the European Commission, which is not really a left-wing body. By 2024, the deficit will reach 13.3 billion euros. The social balance sheet is even more catastrophic: the explosion of unfair taxes, billions of VAT and additional excise duties, huge cuts in public services, thousands of public jobs abolished, cuts in social security expenditure. While social security spending is expected to increase faster than GDP, particularly as a result of ageing, the opposite is happening under this legislature! It's catastrophic for the population. But you are inventing that the problem of social security is elsewhere. In your opinion, this is an explosion in spending over the next few years. The current budgetary problems stem directly from your policy. Of the 13.3 billion deficits announced in 2024, 9.3 billion come directly from the social security deficit. You say it's because of the increase in spending, but under the previous legislature, social security spending has fallen relative to GDP. In the years to come until 2024, spending barely increases if it is reported to GDP, but – and this is the main thing – social security revenues are declining, according to the Monitoring Committee's projections. This government is breaking social security by hammering its liberal fables on competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u89	Mr Van Hees, social security revenues have increased. I don't know what picture you've seen, but they've gone up! But what is true is that spending has also increased, especially in pensions and health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u90	Madam Minister, the problem is that you look at things in a bad way. You analyze the numbers absolutely, but the numbers do not mean anything in the absolute! What is needed is to compare the figures with the evolution of our GDP! When wealth increases, that's what we look at. Any serious economist will tell you. You certainly have them in your office; there is a way to find them. Your liberal fables directly involve an attack on the normal method of financing social security, i.e. social contributions. Your famous tax shift has not only increased VAT. It has not only increased excise duties for the population. It has also broken the normal method of financing the Secu! In fact, your policy is attacking social security in four ways. Firstly, Belgium is one of the European countries where the real wage - I am talking again about the real wage, Madam Minister - increases the least. Years ago it even declined, while elsewhere in Europe it was increasing. Of course, this has an impact on social security contributions since there is a clear link between wages and contributions. When you make index jumps, the salary standard, of course, the salary doesn't increase and the contributions either. Secondly, there is your policy of precarisation of the labour market: flexi-jobs and company which are in fact legalised black work: no occupational discount, no social contributions. Once again, the contributions that are the key element of social security are directly targeted. Thirdly, there is the social or anti-social aspect of your famous tax shift, i.e. a huge gift through the reduction of employer contributions. I found the government's October 2015 PowerPoint when he first introduced his tax shift. He claimed that he wanted to put money into competitiveness, i.e. indirectly steal workers' wages by the theft of social security contributions for an amount of €2.9 billion! In the report of the Monitoring Committee, you will see how far we are towards 2020. These decreases, which amounted to EUR 2.9 billion, are now estimated - not by the PTB study office but by the Monitoring Committee - at EUR 7.1 billion. We have increased from €2.9 billion to €7.1 billion in gifts to employers and withdrawal from social security, theft from social security, indirect theft of workers' wages. Fourthly, this social security is caught between your tax shift, your de-financing, and precisely the 2017 Social Security Financing Act, which claims budgetary accountability for social security. We remove all means to social security and then we tell her that she must be responsible and that we will empower her through this financing law. It's a nameless hypocrisy! Finally, we see that your liberal fables do not work, either at the social level or at the budgetary level. You break wages, so you break consumption, so you break the economic machine, so you break the budget. You break contributions, so you break social security. It's a disaster all over the line! There's another huge gift you're offering to the bosses. Unfortunately, Mr. De Croo is not here for this budget debate. This is corporate tax reform. It was mentioned earlier that this neutrality of corporate tax reform is clearly a joke, since the main element of financing was notional interests. But even without having done the corporate tax reform, the notional interest rate will be negative. We wonder how you're going to finance 5 billion rate reductions through corporate tax reform. The end of tax niches is a joke too. For SMEs, it is true that certain tax niches have been restricted. For multinationals, not only have they not been restricted, but they have even been extended. RTD (revenues definitively taxed) increased from 95 % to 100 % of deduction. For capital gains on shares, there was previously a mini tax of 0.412%, now it is 0% taxation. You put all the documents in the file to get to the current budget situation. This minimum rate is obviously a great joke. Minister De Croo said companies would pay 7.5%. All you have to do is take all the companies in Belgium that make more than one million euros. There are 6,427 of them. One third pay less than 7.5%. Mr. De Croo didn't lie once, twice, but 6,427 times. Another gift is even more surprising. These are excess profit rules. The Commission has said that this is state aid. Belgium has removed this measure from the Income Tax Code, but today the government is fighting against the Commission, not to get money and more revenue, but to get the opposite: to get less revenue and to be able to repay EUR 797 million to 39 multinationals. I'll stop for a moment on this. It's still strong! Generally speaking, you say that we must obey the European Commission and do everything it says. The same Commission tells you that Belgium has serious budgetary problems, and that those 39 multinationals who profited from the excess profit rules were not entitled to these gifts. And you, as a government, what do you decide? To continue to fight against the European Commission to be able to repay 797 million to 39 multinationals. Who decides that? A government in which a future European Commissioner and the future President of the European Council sit. We're really in surrealism. If it were the screenplay of a movie, we wouldn't believe it. Yes, Mr. Chairman, this is quite related to the interim appropriations and unchanged policy in recent years. That is what we are talking about. As we give gifts to the bosses, as we break social security and wages, we have to introduce a small "bidon" tax to say that we charge the rich. It was the security account tax. But we already knew from the start: Mr. Van Overtveldt, and even Mr. De Croo didn't believe it. Today the Constitutional Court has done what everyone expected, i.e. cancel this tax on securities accounts. We said from the outset that this tax was discriminatory. This tax affected medium fortunes, but protected all great fortunes such as those of the Bertrand family, of which one of the representatives was Chief of Staff of Mr. Reynders. I'm not going back to this story, Mr. Clarinval. I know that you do not like to be reminded of this kind of conflict of interest, so I will not go back to this conflict of interest where Mrs Alexia Bertrand, Chief of Staff of Didier Reynders, was negotiating the security account tax while she was directly benefiting from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u91	Mr. President, Mr. Van Hees has been completely out of focus for 15 minutes. He's talking about things and others, about those last dreams that night. Now, he publicly attacks people he accuses of a conflict of interest. I would like it to come to the point, the provisional twelfths in this case, and to stop perping on a series of themes. These are the slogans and the usual caricature of the PTB's words. I'd like it to stop because it's completely irrelevant. Besides, it's inappropriate. He might apologize for the personal attacks he made earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u92	This tax on securities accounts, as I said, is indeed discriminatory because it does not affect big fortunes that do not have securities accounts. Here, however, only securities accounts are taxed. I conclude with the amendment that we are tabling. Earlier, during the oral questions, we talked about the struggle of white blouses. We know that in Belgium there is one nurse for eleven patients, while the European average is one nurse for eight patients. "We run from patient to patient," the nurses tell us, "we don't even have time to say a word to them." Mrs. De Block doesn't have any money for nurses, but she's rolling the red carpet to the drug multinationals. We therefore table an amendment so that, in the context of these provisional twelfths, a 'white-blouse' fund of EUR 67 million can be granted. I think white coats need it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, these provisional twelfths have one aspect which calls for us to vote in favour of them, namely the continuity of the salaries of officials, but on the other hand, to vote would be to give the signal that we accept this policy unchanged from the previous budgets which are fundamentally antisocial budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, we also want to see what happens to our amendment. Vote on our amendment and we will see if we can vote on these provisional twelfths!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u93	You know that we are in a general discussion on a budget issue and that, in fact, we can deal with anything. That's what you did. I would nevertheless like to point out that attacks on people who cannot defend themselves here in this House do not seem to me to be a very parliamentary attitude. You have cited the names of third parties who are not members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u94	I did mention two members of another parliament, but I am not interested in the names, I am concerned about the conflict of interest. I want to denounce and continue to denounce these conflicts of interest, Mr President!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u95	Colleagues, it's a good life in Flanders. It's actually good living in this country, too. That is what we stand for, but perhaps a more relevant question is what we stand for. It is indeed a good life here, but the complete truth is that the government lives above its standards and that people pay huge amounts of taxes, but get too little instead. People pay a huge amount of taxes, but all these taxes are not enough to pay all the state bills. We're turning red numbers. The deficits are running out, and then all these taxes are not even enough. We keep making debts. First question. Who's responsible? Who's to blame for that? I hear on the socialist banks that everything is the fault of the Michael administration. The other parties say that everything is the sossen's fault. The truth is that it is important that this is said here and that it is the responsibility of all parties in this country. It is the responsibility of all parties in this hemisphere. It is the responsibility of parties who have been in the government for decades. We should have dealt with the ageing population in the 1990s. On the contrary, the money was thrown through windows and doors, especially by the purple green governments. However, they are not alone. Yes, it is also the responsibility of the parties in the Michel government. We have reformed, but the honest analysis is that we have not reformed enough. We should have been able to do more. We should have been able to save more. We should have been able to reform stronger. A reform agenda has been implemented, but we should have been able to do more. Yes, it is also the responsibility of the parties in the opposition. Has anyone ever read the socio-economic plans of the Flemish Interest and the PVDA? The PVDA election program is a fairy tale book. The election promises of the Flemish Interest, half a billion new gifts, sound nice, but they are pure air castles. Those aren't my grades, they're the analysis from the Planning Bureau. To sum up, it is important to finally make honest analyses and confirm that we all have a lot of responsibility in that story and do more to solve the problems. Second question. How big is the challenge? She's huge. When the N-VA left the government a year ago, the deficit was 0.8 %. In the meantime, we see in the 2020 budget that the deficit will rise from 0.8 to 2.3 %. That's a deficit of 11 billion. In social security, in particular, the cost of the simple reason is derailed. That is the simple reality: that the figures are working against us, again, because too little has been reformed, because the ageing population has not been dealt with in time, because too little has been saved. Then make a government, we often hear of it. Mr Vanbesien also made that point, and it is absolutely right that we need a genuine government with full powers, which can implement a genuine socio-economic programme. At the same time, we must also make a fair analysis and find that it is not obvious to do so. There are a number of political reasons for this: the electorate has laid the cards as they lie, making it difficult to achieve coalitions. It is also sometimes difficult to know who to talk to in order to reach an agreement, if only because there are presidential elections in different parties. It is also difficult because in Flanders and Wallonia people simply look at reality in a different way and want to find solutions in other ways. These political reasons are all in play, but that is not the essence. At the heart of the problem is that we are running out of money and there are still parties. We have just heard Mr Van Hees who think we can afford to make more debts. What can we do? There are three things we can do. Firstly, we really need to implement what was agreed. Let us carry out the reforms that had been talked through and on which agreements existed. That should be at the heart of a government in current affairs. It must not bring cesorship or break with the past, it must carry out what was agreed together. In social security, the increased degressivity of unemployment benefits was agreed, but it is not implemented. The introduction of employment integration jobs was in the Summer Agreement, but it is not being implemented. The same applies to the raising of the SWT age, the former bridge pension: there were agreements, but they are not implemented. These were good agreements, however, because they start small, with small changes that become major reforms with a serious impact on the budget and which create real savings. Secondly, we really need to stop launching proposals that are even more objectionable to the budget. I believe that this should be Parliament's most basic ambition, and we must not make the bad figures worse. That is why we are also critical of Minister De Block's lax migration policy, which unfortunately has just left our Chamber, because its lax policy increases costs. On June 22, 2013, Maggie De Block was in all the newspapers, because she returned 90 million euros from her budget to the government. She had money, but returned some of it to the budget because she didn't need it. She was able to do so then because she had a strong policy, which meant that less money was needed for the shelter. On 10 October 2013, Maggie De Block returned another 35 million euros to the budget, again because, by pursuing a stricter policy, it was able to make savings, reducing the number of places to be taken care of. Where's the Maggie De Block that gave money back to the budget? Today we see just the opposite. The dose to Fedasil is rising. This year we will have spent EUR 410 million on the reception of asylum seekers, EUR 150 million more than what was budgeted for this year, for 2019. N-VA can and will never support this, as this laxer policy is not good for society, because it undermines the support for migration and because it is not good for the budget. That EUR 150 million is best spent on more useful things, such as defence, justice and police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u96	Mr Loones, Mr Rigot has asked for the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u97	Mr President, I think it is necessary to intervene. I hear Mrs De Block's and Fedasil's policy are again being targeted. I am sorry to recall that the consequences of the current policy and the need to invest additional resources are the result of choices made before that; the choice to close reception places too quickly, to reduce staff at CGRA and the Office for Foreigners too quickly. The administration is certainly not responsible. She had provided clear notes to the government and the then Secretary of State, indicating that it could not work. You didn't do anything about it and you let it happen. That being said, yes, it takes credits to recover the political error committed. In addition, we are talking about additional costs for Fedasil. I invite you to calculate the costs associated with the saturation of the current network and the 6,500 people waiting for a decision and occupying reception places. For 2020, they amount to 130 million euros. This is the result of a political choice made by your then Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u98	Mr Loones, the fact is that in the 2018 budget, EUR 112 million was used from the reserve, which was thus not included in the budget, and which now counts as surplus or overuse in the 2019 budget for Fedasil. You made that argument both in July and two weeks ago. I therefore asked you at the committee meeting to study the matter carefully and to present convincing arguments here today about the use of these reserves and, if you could not, to leave your story at home. I note, however, that you are not doing either. I therefore hope that you now have convincing arguments to say that the story of those reserves is not correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u99	Mr President, I was found in the corridors, although I had just left here to say that the former Minister of Defence was shooting at me. So I rushed over here. (...):Friendly fire.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u100	I don't know if it was friendly fire. With friends like that, they don't need enemies. Mr Loones, you know well enough, like Mr Francken, that I asked for extra money once for more shelter and much more staff in the services. That staff was discarded and we needed it again because there was a delay in dealing with the asylum applications. So that was a one-off and part of it had already been granted to your former Secretary of State on two occasions in the Council of Ministers. I have been so polite as to take that into account immediately in my request for additional resources. That comes back every time in the provisional twelfths, and every time you say that I am asking for more money. That's not intellectually fair. I know that my colleague, Minister Wilmès, has tried to explain this to you several times. You seem to think it is important enough to repeat your misrepresentation in this sitting. I would like to thank the colleague who used to work at Fedasil, who was able to confirm that the reports testifying to the shortages in the reception network were months old at the time when I had to take over the department unsolicited. Please stay honest. If you do well, that may be said, but if you mess it up, it may also be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a number of points. It is said that I finished too quickly, that we now have to rebuild because I finished too quickly and the signals were given in spring 2018. I just want to remind you of this. After the crisis in 2015 and 2016, we adopted the phasing-out plan 1. We have been able to close all emergency centres, in total almost a hundred, step by step, including a large centre in my own municipality. I've taken on my responsibility as mayor. That's what we did. At some point we were finished with finishing plan 1 and were about 2,700 beds unoccupied. I asked for budgets for Fedasil because it all costs a lot of money. There were empty beds, but there were also 26,000 places occupied. That comes to the Council of Ministers and Minister for the Budget, Wilmès, and rightly points out that I have so many empty beds, that I have to close those centres first and make a phasing-out plan 2, because these empty beds cost a lot of money. I did. Finishing plan 2 was approved by the government in 2018 and we have begun further phasing out. Empty beds must not be kept, of course, that costs a lot of money, that is common sense, common sense. In spring 2018, I noticed that there was a further strong surge of asylum applications, especially from Palestine. Many single men from Palestine came to our asylum point in Brussels and applied for asylum. The influx was particularly high in May and June 2018. The summer went by, I said there was a problem, and we looked into it. Those filières were investigated both by the federal prosecutor and by the people of the Foreign Office. The interviews showed that these people mainly flew from Palestine to South America with Turkish Airlines or from Egypt to Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and then Chile and Peru. Then they flew on to Madrid because there is a visa exemption for a number of South American countries that Spain has had for years. This is a privilege that Spain has because of the colonial past. They get out of Madrid airport, take vans and are driven by smugglers to Brussels to apply for asylum. There are sometimes over a thousand asylum applications per month from Palestine. Of course, that cannot be the intention. I do not think that there is anyone in this hemisphere who interprets the Geneva Convention as a way of getting across Spain via South America to Brussels to ask for international protection because they come from Gaza. I will not comment on the Palestinian-Israeli conflict or on whether these people need protection under the Geneva Convention. This is not up to us, but to the CGVS in full independence. As a politician, as a policymaker, I will not be able to defend such filières through human smugglers anymore. In autumn 2018, I decided to introduce a quota. I said at the time that we were going to work very hard to discourage the filières from South America, especially from Palestinians. The dissuade didn't go nicely. It was said that it was inhumane; I did not think it was inhumane but very clear. I also introduced quotas. Those quotas are legal. There is a lot to be said about these quotas, but they were clearly communicated. All vulnerable men, women with children and defective persons were allowed in every day. They never had to sleep in Brussels on the street or under a bridge. Never. However, the single men from Gaza were not registered. There was a lot of commotion about that, a lot of tamtam, but that's just what I experienced when I introduced quotas in 2015. The result was that at that time I had 20,000 places and I didn't need any more places. I came in with those places. Fedasil then provided me with a list of places I could open back. I let them know I wouldn't do that, but I would try to control things through quota. On December 9th, that story stopped. I'm trying to explain things, Mr President. I will also say a few words about Minister De Crem's attack.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u102	Wouldn't you register as a speaker? Mr Loones, your group colleague, is here on the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u103	Mr President, I would like to make myself clear. Since then, the derailment has been taken offline. According to one, the detachment was doable, according to the other it was too loud and went too far. Another distress campaign was launched, but I don't know the effects of it. It was said that the Palestinians would be returned. You said that, Mrs. De Block. I wonder how many have been returned. I'm guessing zero. You also said that the quotas were illegal and that you stopped doing so. You would need additional capacity and you are now opening asylum centres. I did it myself. If one offers bed, bath and bread, one has an international duty. My point is that I believe that we should have the legal courage to fight to defend the quotas if there is such a large human smuggling lobby about South America. I think that's justifiable. I believe that this must be maintained legally. That may be lost. We do not know, the outcome is uncertain. I do think that we should try to keep that line to the bitter end. I also did so in the case of the Aleppo family, and I won before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg. I have won not only because the Court says that it is not competent for the long-term vision, because that is part-state competence; I have also won over the fond, in particular that it is not possible to apply for asylum at an embassy or consulate of a Member State of Europe. There were interventions by Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron, of all the governments in Europe, but we have won that. I believe that this fundamental debate can be held. If we know that it is being carried out through human trafficking networks in such a criminal way, then we must say that it is asylum fraud and we must insist that we stop playing this game. That is a fundamental discussion. I see so many months later, they're asking for money. Mr Van Besien, it is true that last year the reserves were also refueled, but we were in a shrinkage scenario. At the beginning of 2018 I had 26,000 places, of which 2,700 beds were empty. Both the PS and Wouter De Vriendt say that I should have kept those places open, that I shouldn't have closed them. At that moment, I had no choice but to close them, because there was then a very low influx. We were in a shrinking scenario back then. We then had less than 20,000 beds left, and we saw about another increase from June. At that time, I made the decision for which I assume all political responsibility: the quotas and the betrayal. For the way that was put on the market, I take full responsibility. We were in a shrinking scenario back then, and I needed that money. If you go from 26,000 beds to 20,000 beds, you still need money at the beginning of the year. It is something else when one goes back from 20,000 to 26,000 beds, as happens now. This will require additional money, especially at the end of the year. That is ultimately what is being decided here today, and I have a fundamental problem with that. I would ask you to look at these Palestinian filières, because they remain number 3 in the asylum applications. See if we can't make an extra effort to destroy the Palestinian smuggling route, in particular. For as it is happening now, the Geneva Convention cannot be intended to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u104	In the meantime, the colleague before me is taking a bit of a root. Actually, he was working on his argument. But I like live debates. Mr Rigot and Mrs De Block have asked to speak. I propose that Mr Loones be allowed to continue his speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u105	Mr President, I shall be very brief. You are right: the debate today is not about migration, but about the budget and the provisional twelfths. I propose that we continue the debate on migration in the Committee on the Interior. If necessary, let's bring Fedasil in to present the notes he had given at the time and demonstrate that your remarks are incorrect, Mr. Franken. You're giving yourself an excellent newsletter. I do not agree with you, with the exception of one point: it is right to apply the law as it should be applied and to allow those who can apply for asylum to do so and those who are not in the circumstances not to do so. We agree. But for everything else, the current consequence of the network is not the Palestinian problem. The current situation of the network, considering that asylum applications are far less than in previous years, is the closure of 39 refugee reception centres, 2,500 ILA places (local reception initiatives), etc. Please stop! We are not going to continue this perpetual debate. You tweeted at the time when you closed the squares; you tweet now because we're mishandling and you'll tweet tomorrow because the Palestinians are present. Please, let's go back to the debate and talk about it in the Committee on the Interior if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u106	Or perhaps hold a dialogue as part of the formation of a government. Maybe it's also a possibility...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u107	Mr President, with regard to the acts of disarray, everyone must judge for themselves whether the way in which this is being done is acceptable or not. We differ in this respect, but that is everyone's opinion. The Council of State has completely condemned the quota, but you always say that I can appeal against it. That is simply not possible, the highest court has said that these quotas are not possible. You say I can play with the numbers 50, 51, 49, 48. Apparently, you're a bigger player than I am. The influx of Palestinians was indeed very large and there were filières. At that time, the Commissioner-General had also imposed a level of protection of almost 100 %. In the meantime, the situation has changed, including through targeted distress actions. The influx of Palestinians this month has so far been 120. Last month there were 160 and the month before 180. The number is in decline. You know what numbers were in your time. Forced return is indeed difficult, but not impossible. There are also Palestinians who want to return voluntarily. We offer them that. We are trying to ensure that there is not too much lingering around here. In any case, those filières are drying out, because the Palestinians themselves say they are not allowed to stay in the country. We are therefore of the same opinion, namely that these filières should be wiped out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u108	Colleague, you worked at Fedasil and you left. I worked for the Foreign Office. So my point is not at all about the administration, which is doing a wonderful job. It is about the fact that Mrs De Block has a different policy than her predecessor, Theo Francken. Mrs. De Block admits that herself. Even if it is a government in current affairs and it should keep things moving, no, it is doing something else, it is pursuing a different policy, and that costs money. Mrs. De Block herself says she's asking for money. Mrs De Block, I repeat, I am really homesick about the 2013 Maggie De Block when you returned 90 million to the budget, when you returned 35 million to the budget. Today you ask for extra money, then you gave money. I really do not believe that this is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u109	Mr President, Mr Loones, I would like to add a little more. The minister just walked in here and was immediately shot at by the former Minister of Defense. Moreover, I note that there is no intellectual honesty in this debate. Nevertheless, Mr Loones, I would like to say that you are still very kind to the Minister for Asylum and Migration. You say you're homesick for 2013, when the budgets were cut. I would like to say that this was not because of Maggie De Block's policy at the time, but because of the government's policy in previous years, including by strengthening the legislation on family reunification and asylum and migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u110	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u111	It was an interesting and valid remark, because in 2011 too, we spent more than 500 days with a government in ongoing cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u112	This seems to me to be a collective group statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u113	In 2011, there was also a very long period of ongoing business, over 500 days. At that time, we were very successful in implementing a number of reforms in the Migration Code. For the first time in 30 years, migration laws have become stricter. I could talk a little bit about that, too, because I was on the Foreign Affairs Department back then. I wrote the bill then and negotiated it with Theo Francken. As a result of these adjustments, the flow of asylum has fallen and Mrs De Block has been able to reap the benefits. I hope that we will be able to carry out further such reforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u114	It is now a matter of provisional appropriations. May I suggest that you bring forward your personal life history and your memoirs at another time? In this way, we will be able to complete our work at an orderly hour this evening. Mr Loones, please try again to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u115	I'd like to take a short stipend from that. A debate on migration is one on society and on the basis of support for migration. It is also a debate on the budget. Now, Mrs De Block's laxer migration policy is costing us EUR 150 million this year. For the last disc of the last two months, it is 14 million euros. These are money that I, as a former Minister of Defence, would have liked to have invested in, for example, Saffronberg, where 600 officers are now in training, who cannot even shower. I would have much rather put those pennies in the barracks in Arlen, where our recruits, unfortunately, are literally in the shit. The money could be spent more usefully on this, Mr President. So my speech certainly fits in with a debate on the budget. At the same time, if I'm going to address you, I'd like to give you a flower. At the beginning of this legislature and your Presidency, you called on us all to exercise budgetary caution. You have said that any proposals put forward in Parliament should be passed on by the Court of Auditors so that we do not have any further objections to the budget, which is already firmly included in the red figures. I would like to repeat your appeal here, Mr President. Colleagues, please, be careful what you propose. We're out of money. I'd already made two points. Firstly, we should implement the reforms that had already been agreed. The government in current cases should do that. Secondly, the Court of Auditors must be involved, so that we do not raise any further objections to the budget. Thirdly, we need to examine where we can proceed. Parliament can play its part in this and accept its responsibility. The N-VA has repeated this several times: we will always be the partner of each party that wants to reform and save. Reforms are needed on four sides. Firstly, measures are needed in relation to pensions in the light of ageing populations. Secondly, we must examine how we strengthen labour market policy. Thirdly, we must improve our competitive position in an international context which, in order to be mild, becomes more challenging. Fourthly, we need to implement social reforms in the areas of migration, security, justice and defence, which will increase efficiency and reduce costs. Mr Vanbesien, once again, you are right when you say that there is the tension. We have a different view of this than your party and the left-wing parties in the Chamber. How will the N-VA vote on provisional appropriations? It will not surprise you that we are voting against. Frankly, we would very much like to vote in favour of a provisional budget, but for us, voting in favour of this draft opening of provisional appropriations is irresponsible. We want a budget that complies with the commitments made, which does not make bad figures worse and responds to the question of where further reforms are possible. This brings us to the most essential question, namely whether this is still possible in our country at all. Isn't it time to open the eyes? Those who really want to put this country in order, budgetary and social, will also have to opt for confederalism. Only confederalism can guarantee this and lead to a more efficient government, which will work more cheaply and provide better services. Only with confederalism will the difference in vision on both sides of the language border be respected. In Wallonia, then, the desired policies can be pursued, the policies for which the citizens vote, to which they are also entitled. The same applies to Flanders: only confederalism can guarantee that the Flemings get the policy for which they vote. Colleagues' representatives who sincerely believe that they are institutional and socio-economic two different worlds do not live on Earth, but I think they live on another planet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u116	Mr Lachaert wishes to comment on what Mr Loones has just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u117	Mr Loones, I suggest that you keep us informed on the institutional level of your party's negotiations with the PS. You've been working on that for some time, and we're looking forward to that. Our fate is ultimately in your hands as the largest Flemish party, along with that of the largest French-speaking party. Mr President, I propose that we reduce the debate to the subject of provisional appropriations. I hear MEPs here spouting out the entire political topicality, while what is in store is an emergency measure of provisional appropriations on the basis of a budget of two years ago. Who really thinks it is necessary to defend their own policy two years ago today so stubbornly? I believe that we must now look forward and confine ourselves to the subject before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u118	From a certain logic you are right, Mr Lachaert, but a budget debate is the rule, which applies at all levels, and allows us to talk about everything. I note with you that this is about everything and everything. You have a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u119	If it is any consolation to you, I will not be participating in the stabbing games between former coalition partners, but I do agree that we need to have a fundamental discussion on a number of social issues, which will come back. I shall refer to the fourth disc of provisional twelfths, which, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors, have been drawn up in accordance with the usual legal rules and are therefore mainly technical. That was also the case with the previous three discs of provisional twelfths. I hope that we will no longer have to approve a first draft of provisional twelfths by 2020. The European Commission is not in favour of this either. The most important thing is that we get a government with full powers as soon as possible. My group has already called for the accelerated formation of a federal government, which will have to make fundamental social choices in a full budget. Mr Matheï, fiscal justice is an important topic for us. A fairer distribution of tax burdens is needed. I quote Professor Michel Maus. There was also a call here not to make the hole bigger. A hole has been struck by the destruction of the securities tax. According to some N-VAs, it was literally intended to be destroyed. I propose that we have the proposal ready and will submit it to the House as soon as possible to approve the securities tax repair law, so that we do not forget that money for the budget. That is a simple measure to ensure that the gap in the budget does not widen. The sp.a-group will display its sense of responsibility again and will approve the fourth disc of provisional twelfths. For us, it is important that the federal government can continue to function, although the basis of the 2018 budget was not ours. I agree with Mr Vanbesien on this. I said earlier that we do not want chaos in health insurance. We don't want chaos in the federal government either. The people who need the services of the federal government should not be the victims of the too long period of current cases. That is why, as I have already said in committee, we also accept a number of derogations due to volume effects. It is, for example, about the fact that more people with disabilities receive public support, and we must allow a derogation for that. They must not be the victims of the provisional twelfths. There are also more people who need to make use of the income guarantee for older people, so we must also allow for an adjustment. Old people who do not have a large income and therefore have to make use of the income guarantee for the elderly must be compensated. From this point of view, because we want the federal government to continue to function, we will support the fourth disc of the provisional twelfths, just like the previous three discs, although we stress that we want a federal government to be able to make fundamental social choices as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u120	In the meantime, I have also added Mr Leysen to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u121	Madam Secretary, show me the money: with those four words N-VA President Bart De Wever put the government-Di Rupo in the 2014 election campaign. Five years later, with the same four words, the almost complete and dismantled Michel government can not only be knocked down, but even knocked out. In July, when we discussed the provisional twelfths in this House, we said that there was apparently a deficit of EUR 1 billion per report on the budget that has been published in recent weeks and months. The EUR 11 billion in July now stands at EUR 14 billion against the next elections. For comparison, the Netherlands currently has a budget surplus of EUR 14 billion. The Flemish parties must think about this. Last week and today, the N-VA ventured to say in the Committee on Finance and Budget that this massive derailment of the budget has arisen after the N-VA has left the government. That is not only laughable, it is also clearly incorrect. The Flemish Interest does not agree with this attitude. We will uphold the responsibility of the N-VA, the responsibility of the party for the shameless transfer of invoices to the next generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u122	Mr Lachaert wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u123	Mr Vermeersch, I have a question for you. Some amendments will be put to the vote and the budget will be greatly affected. What is your group's intention on this? Will you approve amendments which further raise objections to the budget?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u124	We have tabled a number of savings. We have filed a saving on Unia, on Fedasil, on the royal house and we will...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u125	I have a specific question. An amendment will be put to the vote which will raise the budget by 1 billion per year. Will you vote for it or against it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u126	I do not know which amendment you are referring to, but it is certainly not ours. Our amendments make savings on Fedasil and on the Brussels language premiums. What amendment are you referring to?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u127	An amendment from the PVDA-PTB, the Communists. Will you approve or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u128	I think it is about the amendment on the white blouse and I think we will abstain. I can be very clear about that...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u129	The voting behaviour will be reflected in the vote on the amendments. We are now in the middle of a general discussion. Please continue with your speech, Mr Vermeersch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u130	If I may, I want to be very clear. The Flemish Interest has only tabled amendments to this budget which involve savings. We are very responsible in this respect. You must, of course, direct your failure to the PVDA-PTB. Of course, it is not my job to defend their amendments here. The Flemish Interest therefore does not agree with the attitude of the N-VA. We will hold the N-VA to its responsibility for shamelessly forwarding the invoice to the next generations. The Michel collective government was and is responsible and must therefore also be held responsible. That is what we owe to future generations, our children and grandchildren who will eventually have to pay the bills. Let us not forget that the Swedish parties promised to achieve a budget balance in 2018. Today, where the so-called socio-economic recovery government's commitment to putting state finances in order has been the prime objective of all the Community's promises, or even the frozen ones, it appears that this is precisely the clean-up that has been the weak point of the past administration. All objectives were postponed despite the slumping economy and falling interest rates. There has been a delay, there is no balance in the budget and there are no surpluses. The under-financing of the tax shift resulted in too little revenue being generated and the balance sheets had to be reduced. In the meantime, the Minister of Finance, Van Overtveldt, moved to Europe, succeeded with the advance payments of taxes. It was art and flying to throw sand in the eyes of the citizens of this country. Last week, the same Minister Van Overtveldt's securities tax was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. This tax appears to be unconstitutional from different points of view. As early as 2018, tax experts warned that the law was sloppy and badly written. So that was once again art and flying to throw sand in the eyes of the citizens of this country. We are not alone in this criticism. This week, the European Commission was devastating about the death-sick Belgian public finances. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak in this context about entity II and, above all, about the Communities and the Regions. Last month, the Walloon government proposed its coalition agreement, neatly wrapped with a red bow and an uncovered check on the front. Dear Walloon friends, the budget does not seem to be a problem for the new Walloon government. The administrative agreement consists of hundreds of pages of promises against a single poor final paragraph on the budget. A balanced budget would not be until the end of 2024. Hundreds of pages of expenditure versus a totally non-binding budget commitment, an empty box. It reminds us of the statements that were attributed to PS'er Guy Mathot in the early 1980s, namely that the gap in the budget is self-evident and that it will automatically disappear. It is of course particularly easy to find an agreement between the parties if it is not clear who will pay the invoice. But we all know who will pay the bill. We are talking about socialist and left-wing liberal Walloon pottering in the face of unfair billions of flows from Flanders. This Walloon je-m'en errorism is completely incomprehensible and irresponsible to us. Colleagues, the Walloon error in the budget is, by the way, a re-release of what happened earlier here in Brussels. Remember, this summer Open Vld played at the Brussels government wheelbarrow from the left. According to the Planning Bureau, by the end of this legislative term, the Brussels budget will have a deficit of half a billion euros. The Prime Minister of Brussels has already made it clear that he thinks it is an option to increase Brussels' debt further. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that government agreements now contain promises that we do not know how they will be paid makes us the worst fear of federal government formation. Above all, it is again incomprehensible and irresponsible. The frivolity of the last election campaign is shamelessly continued after the elections. In the N-VA programme we read: "Invoices cannot be passed on. Each government is responsible for getting the budget in order."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u131	Mr Vermeersch, Mr Loones is asking for the floor and I must give him that. However, I have the impression that the campaign has still not stopped. Besides, it's about time we had a government. Mr Loones, I give you the floor, but we are not talking about the Brussels Government, but about the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u132	Mr President, I am holding back. At first it was about the tax shift which is indeed a tax reduction. I now hear that the Flemish interest does not think it is a good idea for us to reduce taxes. Then it was about the securities tax that was destroyed. Apparently, the Flemish Interest absolutely wants to defend the securities tax. Then it's about uncovered checks. I google that and the first thing I read is, "Flemish Interest. The biggest uncovered check." In De Standaard of April 2019. Your election program, calculated by the Federal Planning Office, is the biggest uncovered check. A little more modesty would please you, Mr Vermeersch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u133	I suggest you stay a little serious and intellectually honest. I listened to Mr Vermeersch. He did not, of course, support the securities tax, quite the contrary. We have warned from the outset why this has now been abolished. At the time, we were against it. You said you were against it, too, but you entered it. We have warned you of this from the beginning, but you have introduced it. You say that you think it is irresponsible to approve these provisional twelfths. Provisional twelfths are an extension of an already existing budget which you yourself have introduced. The extension of this is suddenly not justified. You'll have to explain that to me, Mr Loones. We are consistent. We voted against that budget. We shall therefore vote against an extension of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u134	Mr Loones, that way we can continue to play ping-pong.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u135	Mr President, very briefly. Sometimes a person wonders why he's in the chair for half an hour. Mrs Pas, if you have listened, you will have heard that we have acknowledged the need for further reforms. I have pointed out in particular that a number of figures will be at our disadvantage. The ageing population is on the rise. It is not enough to base the budget on last year's budget. We need to reform more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u136	I have indeed spoken about the tax shift and the securities tax. With regard to the tax shift, I said that she was underfunded and that you conjured up the advance payments of corporation tax to make that right. Sand in the eyes of the citizens. As far as securities tax is concerned, I have made it very clear that tax experts said it was bad, poorly drafted and sloppy. That is essentially what we have said. In fact, the citizens have been sprinkled with sand in their eyes. I will continue my speech where I left off. Where previous Flemish governments were still proud of the fact that they were able to record a schwarze Null, a budget balance, where previous Flemish governments were still opposed to the pivotal Walloon and Brussels budget culture, the new Jambon government is now also releasing the budget reins. It has been contaminated by Walloon and Brussels je-m'en errorism. Walloon Prime Minister Di Rupo must have laughed when he found that the flamingant from Brasschaat has become a Belgian statesman. Would you like to get up the real CD&V? Our esteemed colleague Bogaert rightly wrote in his strategic vision paper for the party that a balanced budget should be a minimum condition. But apparently CD&V has as many opinions on this as presidential candidates. I'd also like to focus on Open Vld. Dear Liberals, the sloppy and incomplete budget that our country submitted to Europe last week shows that next year's government seizure will continue to rise to a hallucinating 54% of GDP. In the meantime, 54% of our wealth is swallowed up by the obsessive and vicious Belgian State. With a tax burden of 47.5%, Belgium remains the world champion of taxation. The Flemish so-called liberal party, Open Vld, will be in power at all levels for 20 years, and these are the dramatic results of the policy. Liberal thinkers and ideologists turn around in their graves. While we are talking about the so-called Flemish liberals, or what remains of them, Mrs De Block is again asking for funds for the temporary twelfths for the reception of asylum seekers. The fact that Mrs De Block is at the same time Minister of Social Affairs and Health and Minister of Asylum and Migration has the advantage of clarity. The social security deficit, on the one hand, amounts to more than EUR 3 billion. Minister De Block, on the other hand, is counting on her being able to pass the cash register with the provisional twelfths for a fourth time. All in all, the Minister already asked about EUR 150 million extra for asylum seekers, on top of the EUR 260 million registered. It is no longer for the public to explain that there is no money to meet the urgent needs of our people in the social security system, but that it seems that money can always be found to meet the needs of asylum seekers. We cannot repeat it enough here. The asylum figures show that the ministers' names have changed over the last few months, but that the policy has remained the same. Already in the second half of 2018 under then Secretary of State Francken, the number of asylum applications in Europe decreased, but the number of applications in Belgium increased. The budget entered was exceeded by an outrageous 57% to 411 million euros. There is a big gap in the budget, but for asylum, it seems that money can always be released. That will be without the Flemish interest. We have never approved the original budget. Nor will we approve the provisional twelfths. That does not mean, however, that we avoid our responsibilities. The Michel collective government was and is responsible for the current budgetary ruins. We will continue to remind the parties responsible. That is what we owe to future generations, our children and grandchildren, who will eventually have to pay the invoices. Opinions differ in Parliament, and that is a good thing. That feeds the debate. However, there are two points on which we can all agree. Firstly, the previous government, despite its promise, a difficult economic situation and low interest rates, has not been able to present a balanced budget. That is what we have to establish together. Secondly, the future government may not achieve a balance by 2021, which the Michael Government promised to Europe. This has proved painfully clear over the past week. We have to be honest about that together. The current residual government is now more than 300 days in current cases. Almost five months after the elections, there is no prospect of a government at federal level. However, Parliament has full powers. Colleagues, we have a job to do. Without a government, Parliament is stronger than ever. In our amendments we propose a number of direct savings to the royal house, Unia, Fedasil and the Brussels language premiums. However, in the coming days and weeks, let us also implement a number of reform measures, for which there is at least a majority on the Flemish side. Firstly, a step-by-step access to social security. That was already in De Wever's starting note. Secondly, the reform of unemployment benefits, on which we all agreed in the campaign. Thirdly, a fair tax: today labour is being punished too much, so work must again pay more. Who the hell could be against that? Flemish Interest calls on all parties: let us decouple the budget from the formation of government. Let us in Parliament, which has full powers, carry out a number of thorough reforms. If all this is no longer possible, it is high time that the electorate was able to vote again and then we had to go to new elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u137	The words 'new elections' fall on my list and then Mr Dedecker is on my list, but that will be a coincidence. Then there are colleagues Leysen and Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u138	Mr President, I will keep it a little shorter. In fact, I did not intend to ask for the floor, because it is about provisional twelfths and you cannot, in principle, approve them; we can symbolically condemn them, but we cannot abandon the country without money. I am asking for the floor, because I belong to those who say that the 11 billion deficit has come since the Marrakesh Pact. I've been walking around here for 20 years with some interruptions, and I wonder which hypocrites and hypocrites say that. Soon someone who has left us as Prime Minister will turn a finger on Belgium in Europe because the budget is not correct. The culprit and the judge are actually the same. I am sorry about that and I am looking at the colleagues from Open Vld. Every citizen in our country is born with a backpack of public debt of more than 40,000 euros, 49 000 dollars to be correct. There are three countries around the world where we get an even bigger backpack: Japan, Ireland and the United States. In real figures, our sovereign debt increases every day, despite negative interest rates. Every day, Members of the PVDA, citizens are impoverished by Europe's policies. In the old days, you could save money. What does saving in this country mean? One can save the amount left after all the costs have been paid and half of the income is given to the tax authorities. If there is anything left today, then we can turn that amount off, if we are very lucky, at 0.11 %. We are impoverished every day by the inflation rate of 2%, and now, Madam Secretary, you are still asking for money. There's an 11 billion hole in the greenhouse. Next year, it'll probably be a 14 billion hole. You have promised to balance the budget or maybe go over a billion. This isn't a billion more. It's pure waste and blindness. You want to ask the citizen something now. You should listen carefully, gentlemen of the PVDA and the PTB, because I will now talk about the tax burden on capital. How big is it in Belgium? This amounts to 3.5 % of GDP. In the Scandinavian countries, which you admire so much, it is barely 1.5 %. In Scandinavian countries like Sweden there are no inheritance rights to pay. However, the government is not yet in charge, because we have to burden the major assets. The implicit tax burden on capital, dear friends, is 38% here. Only in France and Norway is it higher. In the Netherlands it is 12.1%. We are not yet in a position to do so. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the PVDA and others, we are not a European champion for the burden on labour, but we are on the stage. We're third. The company rate has dropped. I love that, but with an average of 25%, we are still among the leaders in Europe. What aren't we champions in? We'd better ask ourselves that. The tax burden is 47.5%. The withholding tax on capital has doubled in five years. I am not talking about indirect taxation, but we are not yet getting there. There is a gap in the budget of 14 billion later. We're about to get a 54 percent government seizure. There are also indirect taxes. There will soon be a debate on, among other things, the green certificates. Until last year the price for electricity accounted for 33% of the electricity bill, while today it is only 20%. The rest of the invoice consists of taxes, levies and the like. Despite all this, there is still a gap in the budget. Without our car, the monster of the Rue de la Loi, there would be a deficit of 20.7 billion euros, because 10% of all revenue comes from taxes and excise duties on that car. And I can go on like this for a long time. Despite everything, therefore, there is a budget deficit and we must talk here about provisional twelfths. However, we are champions of Europe and even of the world in everything that has to do with taxes. In fact, you should be ashamed to ask for provisional twelfths. You should be dealing with surpluses. It was also said that we are going to look north. A fantastic idea! How big is the surplus in the Netherlands, Mr Leysen? Ten billion euros. We are looking for EUR 11 billion for the time being. Next year we will be back here and then we will be talking about a deficit of EUR 14 billion. What happened to all these big promises? Mr President, you just said a few words about this before the elections. One of the electoral promises concerned pensions, i.e. a minimum pension of EUR 1,500. The pension budget increases by EUR 2.5 billion a year. Currently, the budget is EUR 44.6 billion. We're going to be at EUR 47 billion. I would also point out that we do not have a reserve. In the Netherlands there is a pension reserve of 1,400 billion euros. We have nothing, except the Silver Fund, but that's empty. The present generation must work to pay all these taxes so that the previous generation can be paid. After all, the money from the past is all gone. Besides, there's a hole in the greenhouse. When we talk about pensions, it also turns out that no one dares to touch on pensions. I dare say that civil servants' pensions have increased by 33% in ten years' time. However, no one dares touch it. From 2.2 % of GDP, the budget for civil servants' pensions has increased to more than 4% today. However, nothing has been done about this for the last 20 years, except for big words. In addition, 68 percent of civil servants still retire early. I can go on like this for a while. I think all this is hypocritical. Sometimes Parliament needs a reminder. I'm gonna take a right look at the CD&V. I'm going back to the time when CD&V was still the CVP. I'm going to read a piece from Gaston Eyskens' policy statement of 24 April 1947. We were from the war and what did Gaston Eyskens say? "To eliminate the deficit of 10 billion," Belgian franc, dear friends, "on the 1947 budget, which was almost 60 billion in total, I proposed a 10% reduction in public expenditure." The reduction in public expenditure to balance a budget! "The savings will be achieved in particular," says Eyskens, "by reducing subsidies to businesses and employment and the public sector. I announced that I would introduce tax reductions to 5.5 billion Belgian francs. This led me to anticipate a thorough reform of our tax system in order to improve the transparency of tax legislation. All measures aimed at creating an environment of economic expansion and social progress, enabling the modernisation of the economic structure and making public finances sound." Seventy years after date, dear friends, Gaston turns into his grave. We still have the courage to say here that we want to compensate the ARCO swindler gang. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u139	Thank you, Mr Dedecker. Mr Christian Leysen has the floor. On my list I have Mr Francken standing for a brief intervention from his bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u140	Mr President, it was nice to be the first to speak last time. It is particularly interesting to be able to speak last now, because then one has been able to listen to the others and has learned a lot. One has heard wise words and sometimes amazing words. I have learned that a budget discussion can also be a therapeutic session for post-electoral trauma or for massage of post-dismissal trauma. Let us be serious. Today is October 24th. Exactly ninety years ago it was black Sunday, the crash at the New York Stock Exchange as a harbinger of the Great Depression. I do not want to make doomsday thinking, I just want to make it clear that we must not forget that there are economic cycles. Economic cycles exist. The current cycle is expected to decline. We all know it: Brexit, trade wars, general sentiments. It should not all end badly, but the uncertainty that weighs on all these issues affects the economic climate and obliges us not to try to balance the budget with optimistic forecasts, as is so often the case in the past. It has often been said that we have been in full power for 11 months in a period without a government. I found it particularly interesting to hear my colleagues speak. I noticed a great degree of modesty and an appeal to act and to evaluate ourselves, even though many Members of Parliament have been newly elected. It is a collective responsibility for the situation in which we find ourselves. The vote on 26 May is now five months behind us, but there is still no beginning of a real form of government. The two largest parties on both sides of the language border are still processing post-electric trauma and must ensure that they do not use their energy to fixate on the extremes that have removed their voices. We thought that a step forward had been taken, but since a week we have the impression that it is a procession of Echternach. We thought things were moving forward, but now it looks like we're nowhere. To use the metaphor of the two former reformators: the two horses that should be led to the water sometimes look deep in each other's eyes, but still prefer each one to graze separately in their own meadows. That administrative catenaccio, a term from the football world that indicates defensive games in which the teams cannot or do not want to score because they are mainly afraid, may be interesting for the Wetstraat journalists, but for the man in the street it is equal to administrative irresponsibility. In this context, we are here; the last tranche of the provisional, now the final, twelfths, is now before the vote. Compared to the initial budget submitted for 2019 but not approved by the fall of the government, the total of the provisional twelfths is 1.7 billion higher in liquidation. You should know that, because of social security, it amounts to 1.9 billion, while the operating appropriations were ultimately lower. A painful reality lies behind this technical budget. The longer the political deadlock lasts, the greater the risk of further budgetary derailments. Belgium's budget plan, which the government has submitted to the European Union, is proof of this. Of course, the budget contains, on the one hand, the federal budget but, on the other hand, the budget of the Communities and the regions. The speakers before me have already indicated that the European Commission has given us a reprimand on this. This time it is a French budget commissioner. Next time it will be a Greek budget commissioner. I hope he will not call us Greece in the North Sea. Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo has rightly spoken of a wake-up call. I hope that the various statements today will also be a wake-up call for all of us. The technicality of the note drawn up by the Minister for the Budget, who is in fact a pro-forma budget, reminds me of my time at university. I remember well that students submitted an almost blank sheet or an incomplete sheet during the exam, just to be formally in order for the second sitting time. Let us be honest, we must go to a second sitting time. The Federal Government has continued for entity I on the provisional twelfths of 2019. For entity II, which is the Communities and the Regions, this was, when you read the text, mainly wet fingering based on little coherent and little transparent data from the Communities and the Regions. That is a problem that we must be aware of collectively. We can only get our economies in order if everyone accepts their responsibilities and everyone has the willingness to work together. As Mr Dedecker has unfortunately pointed out once again, this country has a bad reputation in the budgetary field. Every year we drew up the European Union's own directives and standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u141	Mr Leysen, Mr Vermeersch would like to interrupt you for a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u142	Mr President, he may interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u143	Mr Leysen, I would like to point out very briefly that there are two governments which do have full powers, the Brussels and Flemish governments, of which your party is a member. You are critical of entity II here, but you and your party have a crushing responsibility in that regard. I would just like to point that out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u144	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, I have just told you that although I am new to Parliament, I am modest enough to admit that we have a collective responsibility. The special thing was that, when I was not yet elected, people already claim to me with "you, politicians." I wasn't elected yet, though. I always say to citizens that they are also politicians, because they ultimately elected the Members of Parliament who have sat here, formed majorities and conducted policies. So, yes, collectively we have failed in Belgium in terms of budgetary policy. Of course, it's always easier to point the finger at someone else. But that doesn't help us any further. We are an effective world champion in budgetary delay. The ambition to finally balance the budget in a few years' time is a bit reminiscent of our annual ambition to win the Eurosong festival. But it's been forty years since that was won by a young Walloon girl. Several speakers have rightly drawn attention to the fact that we must have the courage to think in the long term. We must abandon what I call consumer democracy. We promise the voters things they like to hear, knowing that we cannot keep those promises or that we will pass the bill on to their children. As has already been said, everyone believes that the cost of ageing, the cost of pensions and health insurance will be paid by someone else, but ultimately it is us who pay them collectively. Indeed, the current special financing law does not sufficiently address the various entities to cooperation and budgetary sensuality. The hot potato is transferred to entity I, the federal government. It gets 55% of the budget and has to make 85% of the effort. For the third time in 12 years, the federal level is flat. It would be useful to take account of what we could have done with those hundreds of days lost without a real budget and without a real government for a steady and thorough reorganisation. I am pleased that, unlike in the Committee on Finance and the Budget, colleagues are showing greater openness here to examine possible measures that are needed. Mr Van Besien has already pointed out that we cannot simply get rid of it with the excuse that there is no full government and that there is a situation in current affairs. We cannot simply ignore the need to get out of the budgetary imbroglio by arguing that adjustments are impossible in a current business regime. In the end, let us be honest, we do nothing but repeat policies with some proposals for adjusting the government to current affairs or Parliament, even if it does not succeed and that is no sin either. There is rightly pressure for the formation of a federal government. At the same time, I would like to ask myself out loud whether one should not seriously consider defining the concept of 'ongoing business' in the event of a prolonged crisis better or differently. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that "business in progress" is not a legal concept and does not include any legal obligations. It is a circular from the Rue de la Loi to act with caution, because there will probably be a new government or because there will be no majority in Parliament. As I said, we can learn from other countries. The Netherlands is now among the best in the classroom, whereas after the financial crisis in 2008 it was worse than we were, with a larger budget deficit. The will to strike a balance in the budget was borne by governments that were both centre-left, centre-right and right-wing. In the current emergency budget, there is a deficit for entity I, the federal government, of 1.8 % compared to 1.5 %. I call on the government and, where appropriate, Parliament to at least ensure that the further deterioration from 1.5 % to 1.8 % is not realised. I think that's the minimum minimorum. If not, it would give the impression that the government is in running cases, despite a runaway party. We must take up the challenge without delay. I therefore call on my colleagues from the Finance Committee to work together to find measures that are long-term justified, without having to make unacceptable political choices. There's still a lot of work to do to make the state more efficient. Our group will approve the last instalment of provisional appropriations, but it urges the major political groups to start work immediately, to form a stable government and to make the country budget sound. That takes courage and long-term thinking. We must not hide behind the concept of current affairs, and we must come up with a budget, whatever we call it. The man in the street would not understand that otherwise, and the generations to come cannot accept that either. I'll finish with a positive note. Together, we can provide solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u145	Mr President, during the discussion in committee I asked a substantive question on page 273 concerning the additional budgets allocated to the Foreign Affairs Office for the purchase of buildings, with the aim of being used either as residences or as chancellaries for Belgian diplomatic missions or consular posts. This is item 71.32.01. The heading just below, line 72.00.01, deals with the construction, installation, renovation and major maintenance of immovable property intended to be used either as residences or as chancery for Belgian diplomatic missions or consular posts. That's a lot of money. The total amount involved is more than EUR 7 million, which is now being added for two months. I wonder which diplomatic post is still being purchased. Minister Reynders is leaving, the Prime Minister is leaving, but apparently Belgian diplomacy is going to buy another diplomatic post, an embassy or a building. In two months' time, people are going to pump huge amounts of money into the renovation of a number of embassies. Mrs Wilmès, I asked that question and you told me that you would give me the answer. I hope I will, because I don't think I've already gotten it. Perhaps I was mistaken, but I have looked at my mailbox again and I think that I have not received any further information on this from your cabinet or from the secretariat of the Finance and Budget Committee. Can I get some information on that? After all, I am very curious about what Belgium will open, in which country and what it will cost. You know that we are mainly selling embassies, and now we are apparently going to buy embassies. I'd like to get more clarity. Finally, I did not respond during the Question Time, even though I was mentioned personally and could have invoked the Rule in the Rules of Procedure on the personal fact. I just read Het Nieuwsblad: "The Crem points Francken with the finger about killing in truck Essex. 'Where are you?'" However, I would like to respond to that, because I personally find it beneath all standards that there should be such a shot in a story where serenity would be appropriate. I remember a debate we had here about a year and a half ago, when I was still in office, when a young child, Mawda, had died. We then had a whole debate in plenary, where you, Mr President, as leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, like Mr Verherstraeten, called for serenity in cases where people died on their way to their dream country, Britain. It is not just about one case, it is about 39 people who have died and Belgium have passed. The lack of serenity has struck me. I didn't respond, but I'm just taking the opportunity to respond. I would remind you of Mawda and the tragic shooting incident, which the P Committee will hopefully clarify shortly. I believe that we should also be given this clarification when 39 people have died. That may not have happened on its own territory, but they have passed through the territory on their way to Great Britain. That would only be appropriate and consistent. I have a good understanding with Mr De Crem, but I did tell him that I do not think it is correct. Since the press is picking that up, I'd like to respond. In substance, I would also like to say something about the story itself. I also talked it over with my colleague De Crem. Where was I? It is said that I have not been seen for four years, but it is the first time that I have been asked where I have been in recent years. I've never heard that before. In any case, I was very often in plenary on Thursday. What exactly do we think should be done? It is a very difficult problem, probably the most difficult problem of migration. What is being done with people who do not want to apply for asylum here and who are in transit? It's hard to stop them, isn't it? If they really want to reach their destination, there is almost nothing to do about it. It's hard for us to put them in jail massively, isn't it? We do not have the capacity to do so. So we have to do it in a smart way, but those smart ways are very complex and difficult. Last year, a month before the municipal elections, a number of mayors, including CD&V, but also other parties, said that "Jambon and Francken do nothing." It was said that the police picked up the transit illegals, did the identification, took fingerprints, took photos, did interviews and then dropped them off at the bus station, with an order to leave the territory, because I had no place in the closed centers. The citizens complained because the transit migrants were just standing there again. That was frustrating and Jan Jambon and I were asked to do something. The mayors revolted a month before the municipal elections. It may have been a coincidence, but I don't believe it. Jan and I made an action plan together, with which we went to the government. The plan, with 11 action points on transit migration, was approved by the Council of Ministers. These were not miracle solutions, but concrete points. These included additional reinforcements and a scanner, which came in September. As far as I know, Mr Demon, Jan Jambon was still the Minister of the Interior in September. Pieter De Crem was then the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. We have also done a number of other things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u146	Mr Francken, you were going to make a brief statement, but you are, of course, calling for reactions again, and that is how we continue to work. Mr Gilkinet has the floor and then Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u147	Mr President, can you remind us of the subject of the current discussion? I understand that, as shown on the screen, we were discussing the provisional twelfths to finish the year. However, I hear that some are holding a conference, returning to the topical issues of earlier times, which I think is quite irrelevant. I would therefore like to conclude this debate in which each group has been able to express its views explicitly on the issue on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u148	Mr Gilkinet, in the context of the general discussion of a budget debate, no limitation is foreseen. Any theme can be addressed. As far as I am concerned, I thought the debate would have been rather technical, but it must be noted that some people prefer a rather political debate. There is no rule in the Rules of Procedure that allows me to put an end to the discussion, and there is no limit to speaking. I note with you that it is 6:17 p.m. I would add that eight speakers have registered to speak in connection with the consideration of the resolution on climate. I'll suspend our work later. I therefore invite you to prepare to spend the evening in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u149	Mr President, I would like to repeat briefly what Mr Francken said about Minister De Crem, who is absent. Minister De Crem has, however, expressed his condolences on behalf of the government. He also replied to an oral question from one of the members of your group. If the shoe fits, put it on. The Minister cannot be blamed for his lack of sympathy if he responds to the criticism. For the rest, Mr President, I note that in today's speeches, both Mr Francken and others, there is much talk of the past. But the past is over. Politics is not a history; politics is about the future. Today we are talking about provisional twelfths. It is about whether we can pay the bills, the pensions, the betting of officials who give the best of themselves. Let's talk about that. Do we want to or do we not want to? That is the question we have to ask today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u150	Mr Gilkinet, I remember your call for conciseness. I assume that will also apply to you in the coming years. I'm sure I'll see to that. I was just talking about the future and the budget, but I was interrupted. We have achieved a number of the 11 Action Lines. A number of points were indeed realised by Mr De Crem, such as extra police for West Flanders, Bruges. I have no problem admitting that. I think there are other things that can happen. Mr Jambon and I have been to Great Britain a number of times and have also received people from the British Government to make a deal. Britain has an important deal with France, and pays a lot in Calais for surveillance and all that comes with it, such as drones and capacity, but nothing is paid at Zeebrugge. I do not think that is fair and I think we should conclude an agreement with the British on surveillance in Zeebrugge. That is also in their interest, because Zeebrugge is also their external border. They also have financial and other responsibilities there. They sometimes send some police and some dogs, but that doesn't get them. We want a real deal. We'd already gone a long way to make such a deal. It is sometimes difficult with the British, but in politics it can sometimes be cynical and it may be: perhaps the question now arises as to how things can be better dealt with in Zeebrugge. Perhaps the British are trying to reach an agreement with us now. Our police services, together with the British, should be able to carry out checks not only in the port of Zeebrugge, but also in the interior at the parkings of Groot-Bijgaarden, Wetteren and Drongen. With these mixed teams one could detect any transit migrants. These are two concrete proposals which I have just discussed with Minister De Crem. In addition, the necessary resources are available in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u151	Mr President, I shall first reply to Mr Francken's questions. The building fund plans several projects in 2019. At the committee meeting I spoke about the establishment of various posts in Kinshasa, New York, London, Montreal and Rabat. In addition, several works have to be performed in Abu Dhabi, Addis Ababa, Bamako, Bujumbura, Paris, Rome, Kinshasa and others. In addition, several properties have been purchased, in particular in Montreal, Ankara and Atlanta. If you would like more details on these projects, please ask my colleague, responsible for Foreign Affairs. As far as the difference of just over EUR 2 million is concerned, this has to do with the purchase of a new home for the consul in Marseilles. You should also be aware that, since it is a fund, the expenditure will be covered by the necessary revenue. This concerns the sale of the embassy in Washington. The proceeds of this sale are expected by the end of this year. Many topics were discussed. It was an opportunity for both to recall their campaign slogan. Such a refreshment of memory was interesting, but I doubt that it concerned the provisional appropriations for November and December. As you have indicated, you are not in a position to lead the debate. I imagine that we were all more or less attentive, depending on the stakeholders. As regards the subject of the present debate, you confirm that the Court of Auditors has clearly identified the absence of new measures in the provisional appropriations which we are presenting to you and whose sole objective is to enable the State to function. I have heard some speakers worry about the situation in some FPS, such as the Defence, or the situation of our officials in general, and of our police officers in particular. However, the same announce that they will not vote for the credits that will be used to pay for the officers' salaries. It is so surprising that I would like to emphasize it. To conclude on a more positive note, I would like to take this opportunity again - as I did in committee - to thank the services that have worked on these provisional twelfths. This is not a simple exercise, since the more we move forward in time, the more the derogations are multiplied. In addition, nothing should be forgotten in this exercise. That is why I will conclude our discussions by thanking the officials and reminding you that these same officials, thanks to the provisional appropriations of November and December, can be paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u152	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u153	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (413/4+1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (413/4+1) The bill has 26 articles. The draft law has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u154	Annex V.Part • 9... Wouter Vermeersch (413/5) • 13.. Sander Loones cs (413/5) • 10.. Wouter Vermeersch (413/5) • 12... Sander Loones cs (413/5) • 11 Wouter Vermeersch (413/5) • 14 • Raoul Hedebouw cs (413/5) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 8 "Wouter Vermeersch" (413/5) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u155	Mr President, we have tabled an amendment on language premiums in Brussels. This was discussed in plenary in June and also in committee. It is about the fact that a whole number of language premiums were not paid for years, when Jan Jambon was still Minister of the Interior, because those people could not prove that they had obtained a language certificate. In July, EUR 30 million was released to pay these premiums anyway. At that time, the Minister confirmed that evidence had been provided, that these people had proved effectively that they were bilingual and that they had obtained a bilingual attestation. At that time we asked whether a check could be carried out by the Court of Auditors and had contact with you, Mr President. You replied at that time that this had to be done by means of a resolution. I would simply like to point out that that resolution was considered today. We ask the plenary to support this resolution so that we can guarantee that policemen in Brussels should receive a language bonus, which is also absolutely necessary, but that we also ensure that we do not give wrong incentives. People who obtain the certificates must be rewarded, but it is not intended that a different policy should be pursued through a back door. So that resolution is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u156	Thank you, Mr Loones.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u157	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u158	Sustained: the amendments, Articles 2 and 10, the attached tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u159	Article adopted by article: 1, 3 to 9, 11 to 26.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u160	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u161	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michel De Maegd, David Clarinval, Nawal Farih, Tinne Van der Straeten, Sarah Schlitz, Malik Ben Achor, Mélissa Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u162	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85 4) (572/1) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (572/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u163	Mr President, my speech will be at the level of the introductory statement, the discussion that followed and the votes. Mr Michel De Maegd, lead author, introduced the motion for a resolution on behalf of the co-sponsors Clarinval, Farih, Van der Straeten, Ben Achour and Hanus and said that the proposal followed the Prime Minister's statements at the UN Climate Action Summit held on 23 September 2019 in New York. The Prime Minister said he wanted to double Belgium's financial contribution to the Green Climate Fund. The Green Climate Fund has its legal basis in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It makes it possible to channel financial resources from the most developed countries to the least developed countries in order to set up projects in those countries to combat the effects of climate change. In October 2018, the Fund's Board of Directors decided to start refinancing, which is to be discussed at a pledging session on 24 and 25 October 2019. Due to the current business period, Parliament's support is essential in these discussions. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to double the federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund from 2020 on a fiscally neutral basis. A discussion ensued in which a large majority of the members agreed with the main thrusts of this motion for a resolution. The debate focused on a few points and, at the request of several members, Mr David Clarinval confirmed that the request for doubling was limited to the federal financial contribution to the Green Climate Fund and did not in any way concern regional contributions. For several colleagues from different groups, it is indeed important that the proposed doubling be carried out in a budget neutral manner. To support their views, these colleagues refer to the current fiscal framework for the Interim Twelfths, which does not allow a government in day-to-day affairs to bind a full-year federal government by imposing a unilateral increase in expenditures. Other members of the committee, however, question this budgetary neutrality and therefore present a series of amendments on this subject. I now turn to the amendments. Mrs Schlitz et al. presented Amendment No. 5, which had the most radical scope and tended to delete the words "budgetally neutral". To justify their amendment, the authors refer to the Prime Minister's speech at the recent climate conference in New York earlier this month. They believe that the principle of budgetary neutrality is contradictory to the political will to double the Belgian contribution to the Green Climate Fund. In addition, Mr Warmoes of the PTB presented Amendments Nos 1 and 2. Amendment No 1 is intended to supplement the recitals with a new recital referring to the text of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change by which OECD countries commit themselves to providing additional new funding to developing countries. Amendment No 2 by Mr Warmoes tends to maintain the principle of budgetary neutrality in the text of the request to the Government, but to add that doubling the federal contribution cannot be done at the expense of existing development aid. Mr. Ben Achour and your servant present Amendment No 3 in which they propose to add in the request addressed to the government that doubling the federal contribution cannot structurally affect the development cooperation budget. The same authors also present Amendment No. 4 to add a second request calling on the federal government to guarantee at least the maintenance of the development cooperation budget devoted to the achievement of the sustainable development goals and to increase the resources devoted by the federal government to public policies aimed at supporting a just and sustainable transition in order to fulfil its commitments under the Paris Agreement. Mrs Schlitz and others presented Amendment No 6, the scope of which was broadly equivalent to Amendment No 4. Mr Dallemagne from the CDH presented a sub-amendment No 7 to Amendment No 6 to prevent budgetary neutrality from being affected by another climate change fund. We come to the vote. All amendments were rejected, mainly on the grounds that the government in day-to-day affairs could not make any levy affecting the budgetary decisions of the next full-year government. Amendment No 5 was rejected by 9 votes to 5, with 3 abstentions. Amendment No 1 was rejected by 9 votes to 8. Amendment No 2 was rejected by 8 votes to 8 with 1 abstention. Amendment No 3 was rejected by 9 votes to 7, with 1 abstention. Amendment No 4 was rejected by 9 votes to 8. Subamendment No 7 to Amendment No 6 was rejected by 9 votes to 4, with 4 abstentions. Amendment No 6 was rejected by 9 votes to 8. The whole motion for a resolution was adopted without amendments by 15 votes with 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the plenary session I said that there was a limit to speaking time to ten minutes. No one has protested against it. Normally there is 30 minutes' speaking time, ten minutes is a third of that. You are not obliged, Mr Van Quickenborne, to exhaust your ten minutes. I shall first give the floor to the principal petitioner, Mr De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is the challenge of this century and calls for urgent action. On September 23, at the UN Climate Action Summit, our Prime Minister Charles Michel understood that. Both through the initiatives we take at the national level and in the international approach we must develop, it is important to strengthen our action. At the international level, significant financial resources are needed to implement the Paris Agreement of 11 December 2015 and to help developing countries cope with climate change. This international funding includes the Green Climate Fund, which is managed in an unprecedented manner, both by donors and beneficiaries. The Fund was pledged at the Copenhagen Conference (COP15) in 2009. In a few years, more than 100 projects have already been supported. Ladies and gentlemen, we are determined to join the most proactive European countries in this field - Germany, Norway, France and the United Kingdom - which double their respective contributions to the Green Climate Fund. Unfortunately, other countries — the United States and Australia — have announced that they will no longer fund this mechanism. Let us be very clear, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government is not making a commitment to the Regions. Moreover, this was not the Prime Minister's intention, since he simply does not have constitutional power. Of course, given the circumstances, it is difficult to make decisions on net budgetary commitments. That is why our text clearly calls for doubling the federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund, while ensuring budgetary neutrality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the groups which supported this text in committee and, of course, those who co-signed it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u166	Mr De Maegd, you have kept perfectly to the time limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u167	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate that we held yesterday in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate, a debate which led to the adoption of this text, which we co-signed and which, at least I hope, makes it possible to double the federal financial contribution to the Green Climate Fund from 2020 in a current business context. However, this doubling cannot be done at any price. The Socialist Group obviously supports a proactive approach to the fight against global warming and, more generally, international solidarity in the face of this common challenge for humanity as a whole. From this perspective, we must remember that all the objectives for sustainable development are essential. Yes, Belgium, in good intelligence with all levels of power, must do more and must do more today. Yes, Belgium must shoulder its share and respect its international commitments. Being a member of the Security Council also means being irreproachable on the international stage, and that must be reflected in all the actions we put forward and the budgets we make, particularly in the climate field. In the face of urgency, it is a matter of being proactive on a budgetary level but also consistent in our political choices. In Belgium, on the one hand, we need to ensure the coherence of our transition policies: investments in soft mobility and public transport, isolation of public buildings, conservation of biodiversity, etc. In this regard, we must once again deplore the cuts made by the MR/N-VA government, particularly in the SNCB. That is the subject of my second amendment. I'll come back. On the other hand, at the international level, the climate issue must be the subject of further efforts. That is the main objective of this text and of my other amendment. Out of the question of weighing this necessary climate investment on the development cooperation budget! Out of the question of putting in parentheses our goals in terms of education, sexual and reproductive rights or the fight against hunger with our partner countries! In short, it is out of the question of reducing the means of development cooperation! The cuts and gels under the previous government have already hurt a lot. It is not a question of further structurally aggravating these cuts. Development and climate policies are moving hand in hand; some are not at the expense of others. It is only through this national, European and international coherence that our country will bring real added value to the mandatory and resolute achievement of our climate goals. Unfortunately, yesterday, as the rapporteur pointed out, our amendments were rejected by a very short majority, while they were intended, on the one hand, to ensure that development cooperation will not be the adjustment variable again and, on the other hand, to guarantee investments in public policies for a socially just transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u168	In the political context we know, ensuring budgetary neutrality is fully justified. To ensure this, it is up to the political world to find new ways of doing, for example, to contribute capital or major polluters, rather than to saber into effective policies. I have therefore resubmitted our amendments and will put them to your vote. I hope they get your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear what we are talking about. We all watched Prime Minister Charles Michel in New York in current cases make a commitment that Belgium would double its contribution. This raises the question of how a prime minister of current affairs can make such a decision, let alone do so for the whole country, while he is only the former Prime Minister of the federal government who is currently running away. We have therefore immediately asked questions about this. In the past, we have always stressed that we must, of course, respect our commitments and assume our responsibilities with regard to international climate financing, which can be achieved through, among other things, the increase in the funds to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In a normal democracy, however, Charles Michel cannot speak for the Regions. We did have a few questions about that. Another aspect is that we are currently in a limited budgetary framework. If we are promised that we will double our contribution, that means that we will have to get rid of that money elsewhere. It is not possible to pass out money without the necessary savings and we were very concerned that this would happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u170	There is now a text for discussion which responds to our concerns. The text before us will no longer discuss what the Regions should or should not do. They are big and strong enough to decide for themselves what is going on and they do not need a federal mother-in-law or a federal father-in-law, even though they have been absent quite often lately. The aspect of budget neutrality was also discussed repeatedly in the committee. When I hear some of my colleagues, my questions stand. At some point, it was suggested that budget neutrality might be a problem. However, the commitment of a contribution means that money is taken away somewhere else, which someone will have to pay. Even if those pennies are added to the deficit, someone still has to pay sooner or later. We clearly do not want to follow that slope. It therefore seems logical to us that we should take it in the proposed way, and we will continue to do so. For us, budget neutrality also means that it is absolutely impossible to put forward a budget proposal here in the next few weeks which amounts to a tax proposal and increases the burden on families and businesses. That is clearly not the intention. The mandate given by the resolution to the government in current cases is quite clear: if the contribution is to be increased, then there must also be savings somewhere. That is the proposal which is on the table today and which we will support. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that amendments have been tabled again to release the budgetary reins and to add the costs to some deficit, as if it could not be done. Let it be clear, if such an amendment is adopted, we will no longer be able to support the motion for a resolution. What is on the table here today, which was introduced by Mr De Maegd and Mr Clarinval, I think is the way to go. We will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Green Climate Fund or the Climate Fund is one of the funds that is a means of international climate financing. It is one of the tools that our country and the countries of the West have to show solidarity with the countries of the South and with the most vulnerable countries affected by climate change. As explained earlier, the fund was established in 2009 and has been active since 2014. It's a great success. Many projects have been approved to reduce CO2 emissions in developing countries, but also to adaption measures. The funds in that fund are partly public, but there are also private funds and sometimes public-private partnerships. It is a very good example of how climate policy is being worked on in practice and how climate ambition leads to climate action. There are projects in Africa around TV and electrification, but there are also projects in South America, such as Brazil, to combat deforestation. It is a beautiful fund, which can manage the risks of drought and flooding. In this sense, the Climate Fund is a form of solidarity and it also achieves a fair transition. Charles Michel did indeed travel to New York, where he stated that he would double the contribution to the fund. He added that he would do so in cooperation with Parliament. That is why we can and must today be proud and proud that we in the Chamber will find a majority across the political groups and the parties, to support those words and to give a government in current affairs the mandate and the power to effectively go to Paris tomorrow and the day after tomorrow and to do so in the second round of funding of the Climate Fund and to declare that we will double our share. We can look at what happens in other regions. However, we are Members of the Federal Parliament. So let us look at ourselves and see what we are doing here. It is not because there is a standstill in other regions that we cannot move forward. That is what we are doing here in Parliament. We in Parliament are proposing to translate the ambition into climate action. Ladies and gentlemen, let the support and understanding we find today be a prelude to cooperation on other issues. Let them be a harbinger to have the same constructive debate in committee and in plenary, when the Minister comes with the draft National Climate and Energy Plan, to look at what binds us and not what divides us. It's this generation that can do something for the next ten years. If we take up the gauntlet together and look at what binds us, we can, I believe, mean a difference for future generations and we can work effectively on concrete solutions. Ambition, coupled with action, is what we are doing today in this plenary. I hope that we will be able to do so in the next few months in committee and in the Federal Parliament plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am quite happy with the result. Indeed, it will be remembered that about a month ago, there was little consistency in this Parliament. The Prime Minister, Charles Michel, spoke in the United Nations rostrum to announce, in a spirit, like other countries, a doubling of the contribution, without initiating a dialogue with Parliament. So we were embarrassed enough to have been put before the fait accompli. Since then, parliamentarians have worked in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate to reach the text that is before you today. I would also like to thank our colleague, Michel De Maegd, for the work done. In the meantime, we have met in a working group to improve the text. In particular, we welcome the fact that the initial amount of EUR 50 million is mentioned. This is an amount that we would like to see doubled at the refinancing session of the Fund, which is being held today and tomorrow in Paris. Today, we are ready to participate in this refinancing session while our government is in day-to-day business, which is quite gratifying. It is in order to welcome this process and to support others, as my colleague, Tinne Van der Straeten, said, that we co-signed this text which we are proud to wear as other political colours. However, we would like some improvements. It is the two amendments that have been submitted to you. The first is to include the federal financial contribution to the Green Fund in the initial 2020 budget, without the new amounts being withheld from the official development assistance budget or from another climate change fund. It also intends to ensure its effective engagement. We believe it is essential to clarify the independence of this contribution. It is essential that this does not encroach on official development assistance, which, according to a recent report by the CNCD-11.11.11. It is now at 0.44% of GNP; it is its lowest level ever, when we have committed ourselves to 0.7% of our GNP. By the second amendment, we wish to delete the reference "in a budgetary neutral manner" because it seems to us that the resolution to be voted on by Parliament today is an authorisation not to comply with the provisional twelfth rule, to which we are bound in our day-to-day business. These two amendments were followed by many colleagues from the PS, PTB, cdH and sp.a. I hope that all groups will be able to join us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u173	Mr President, as chairman of the committee, I would like to thank colleagues for their speeches and contributions to the debate, as well as the initiator, Mr De Maegd. It was an interesting debate. Belgium, as one of the first countries, immediately expressed its support for the fund, with a contribution of EUR 40 million and then EUR 10 million, through Minister De Croo. That's good. These are climate mitigation and adaptation initiatives. One of the debates in committee was about whether or not to make the support to that fund budget neutral. Several parties, especially on the left, have opted not to make the aid budget neutral, in other words to take the initiative on top of what we are already spending. Our group takes a different view for the following reasons. Firstly, you are all undoubtedly aware of the budgetary situation of our country. I am therefore surprised to see the number of legislative proposals being reviewed here, with the aim of spending even more. I am pleased that you, as President, are watching over budgetary discipline. When you took office, you said that you would ask the Court of Auditors' advice. That's good. Secondly, it is an illusion to think that spending more on development cooperation always means better spending. We have proved, with the Minister responsible for development cooperation, that we have made a shift in policy, because instead of focusing on more expenditure, we have looked at how expenditure can be more efficient. This has not been without results, because an important study by the Overseas Development Institute, an authoritative institute for development cooperation, has shown that our country, after Ireland, is the second most efficient country in the fight against extreme poverty. Belgium is today the second most efficient country in terms of the use of development cooperation. Thirdly, on the Transparency Index, an important index on development cooperation, our country has increased from 49th place to 18th in a few years. I have already heard from colleagues, including Ecolo-Groen, Mr De Vriendt, that Minister De Croo has done a good job in the field of development cooperation. On the basis of these elements, I believe we can say that the commitments we make to double our contributions to the Fund can be made in a budget neutral way. Moreover, you should also know that the Department of Development Cooperation, like the Department of Defence, does not work with basic allocations, but with envelope financing and therefore it is up to the Minister of the Department responsible to make the right choices. Any support given to this fund will end up with the poorest countries. After all, it is the poorest countries that suffer most from climate change. I therefore believe that we have made a good choice here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u174	Mr President, this is an interesting debate. I am glad to hear that Belgian development cooperation is so efficient. At the same time, Minister De Croo has saved the most from all previous ministers responsible for development cooperation. He has saved no less than EUR 1 billion. That's unseen! So imagine how efficient we could have been if we still had EUR 1 billion. Imagine the impact we could have had if we still had EUR 1 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u175	Mr President, that is, of course, the whim that we often hear from parties on the left. "Give out more and it'll all be better!" It is interesting to have this debate just after the debate on the budget. We are faced with a country that spends relatively much. We do not yet spend as much as the Scandinavian countries. If you look north, you should be careful, because you may have to spend more. More spending therefore does not mean that it is also well spent. That is why we rejected the amendment on this matter in committee. It was a close rejection with 9 votes against and 8 votes in favour. The same amendments have been retabled. I hope that many colleagues will be present later, because it will be a dime on his side. We hope it will fall on the right side.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u176	Colleagues have already said a lot. As a co-subscriber, we will of course support the resolution. This is a doubling of the federal contribution. Our group had two conditions: the regions were certainly not allowed to have any additional obligations and there had to be budgetary neutrality. The resolution was drafted in this way. As already mentioned, a conference of the Green Climate Fund is taking place today and tomorrow. I hope that we, as a country, will be able to show and support our contribution there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u177	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief. Yesterday, in committee, it was found that almost everyone agreed to increase funding for the Green Climate Fund. We welcome that, of course. As an industrialized country, our country, and therefore we, have a historic responsibility to the Third World countries, because we were among the first industrialized countries. We have already emitted a large quantity of tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. Our development has been through the exploitation of our colonies. We can't forget it. It is a historic responsibility that we bear. It should also be noted that the poorest countries are already the ones hardest hit by climate change. Thus, it is expected that by 2060, in terms of GDP, Africa's economic growth will lose 3 to 4 per cent as a result of climate change. In Europe, this loss would range from 0.25 to 0.75%. It is also estimated that agricultural prices in Africa will rise by 12 per cent, while 60 per cent of African incomes are devoted to food. For us, there can be no question of taking the money earmarked for this Fund from the development cooperation budget, which is already far too weak. As a reminder, we are at 0.43% of GDP today, while the legal target we have set ourselves is 0.7%. It should also be noted that 11 per cent of this aid is for the reception of refugees in our own country. As you will understand, for us, it is not acceptable that funding for the Green Climate Fund should be at the expense of existing funds for development aid or climate. There is a good expression for this in Flemish. In Dutch it's called a pocket-jacket operation. To take it out of one bag to put it in another bag, we are not in favour of that. In French, we say "donate with one hand to take from the other". It is of no use, it does not help developing countries. In short, of course, we support this motion for a resolution, but we do not want it to be at the expense of the development cooperation budget. If you want a budget neutral operation, then do it in another post. There are enough posts in the budget. Make your imagination work, but don't take with one hand what you give with the other. We have introduced an amendment that takes this idea into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u178	Mr President, on the same subject, we understand the approach taken by our colleagues in the Ecolo-Groen Group who are concerned that there are no effective and substantial resources allocated to this Fund. We all share the view that these are capital expenditures, not expenditures with lost funds. However, we also do not want to arrive at a situation where the deficit would be excavated and would lead the government to make savings on other posts – I am thinking in particular of public services – or even, one might imagine, increases in consumption taxes that would hit households. That is why we have tabled a sub-amendment to provide that the Fund must be financed from income from a base that is income from capital. We sent it to you. This sub-amendment was co-signed by Mr. Ben Achour, Mr. Senesael and Mrs. Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a short month ago I also stood here to ask Mrs Marghem what happened. I had seen our Prime Minister in New York make a commitment on a forum where it was intended that only concrete proposals were made. He made a commitment there that was not actually covered by Parliament at the time. I'd like to plead not for words, but for deeds. My words weren't cold yet or there was already a resolution of the MR in our mailbox. We are not going to play political games about this, the result is the most important thing. We welcome the proposal to double the contribution to the Green Climate Fund. That's very clear. Why are we happy with that? We are in favour of a socially just climate policy, because climate does not stop at the border, emissions do not stop at the border. It is only logical that our country should also assume its responsibility. I have one more message for the people who have tabled this resolution. I listened carefully to the Prime Minister at the time. The Prime Minister in New York said not only that the Green Climate Fund is important, but also that in this century the climate problem is the most important battle for humanity. I have heard a lot of harsh words in this House during the few months I have been sitting here, but when the Prime Minister speaks such words on an international forum, that is not nothing. I understand those colleagues who have difficulty with the word 'budget neutral'. In the end, what signal do we send to the rest of the world? It's a signal of wanting but not quite able. I simply think it is important, especially symbolically, that we send the right signal that we are going to double the contribution to the Green Climate Fund, and we will certainly support the amendments that want that word gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u180	Mr President, allow me to represent a dissonant voice and a little spoil the fun of the voluntarist party. It's okay. It's okay. The money for the Green Climate Fund should be used to pay for adjustments to a changing climate and to take measures to combat international further climate change. Let me give you some facts for your consideration. Last year's global emissions of CO2 experienced the strongest increase since 2010 and 2011. This increase is the result of rapidly growing energy demand worldwide. It also rose by almost 3% last year. China, India and the US alone accounted for two thirds of the additional energy demand. The increase in renewable energy worldwide can still not keep up with fast-growing energy demand, let alone reduce the use of fossil fuels. Fifty new coal mines were opened in India. I am not talking about Europe, about Poland. What are we doing here? I hear Mrs Van der Straeten talking about a socially just transition. This morning on the radio I heard specialists from the construction sector say that new construction is becoming priceless for young families, partly because of the increased environmental performance. Then we come here to talk about a socially just climate transition. I'm just giving you a couple of things to consider. Mr Van Quickenborne, chairman of the committee, it was indeed an interesting debate, but it was also an interesting vote. Do you remember the vote on the amendments? You can count. How come this was so close? Who ensured that there was a final vote that guaranteed budget neutrality? You took care of that? You'll have to recheck the polls. Flemish Interest is not important in this gremium, they always say. Flemish Interest is never important. Flemish Interest doesn't count. Eighteen MPs don't count. They'll count. They may be included in another vote on another subject later. The relevance is growing, Mr. Van Quickenborne. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have given you a number of considerations about the framework in which Mr Michel's voluntarism must be seen. Ten thousand Flemings voted for me. That's not much, but I'm standing here for the interests of those Flemings. I cannot explain to those Flemings that I would once again approve a doubling of the federal contribution here, although it will be budget neutral, certainly through our votes in committee. I can't defend that. I have to remember. This is absurd when fifty coal mines are opened in India. I can't explain that to the common man in the street. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u181	Mr President, our group will finally adopt this motion for a resolution. I say "finally", because as much as the Prime Minister's announcement was good news, this announcement was badly born. Parliament had not really been consulted, neither the government nor the federated entities nor the administration. The risk was that this announcement, made by the Prime Minister on behalf of Belgium, would be a kind of straw fire or that the federal level would not really find the means to honour it. Meanwhile, we have been able to find budget queues for 2020, but we don't know anything about the future. I understand that the amendments that we have co-signed with other groups in the former opposition could be rejected. I would like the minister – who was not in committee yesterday – to reassure us of certain elements. Are we going to look for ways to get a recurrence? Is it certain that this will not be done at the expense of other global warming funds? There are other funds that we provide on a recurring basis that are very important, including the Least Developed Countries Fund. This doubling of the budget for the Green Climate Fund should not be at the expense of the Least Developed Countries Fund. I would have liked a specific answer from the minister on this point. I understand that this could be a risk and it is important for Parliament to be reassured on this issue. I also asked in committee - and I understood that this has been supported - that we should also hear those responsible for the Green Climate Fund. This fund is very important. If my information is correct, it is destined to reach $100 billion. Belgium's contribution of 10 million euros more per year - 20 million for federal tasks - is quite modest. I understood that the Fund had experienced difficulties in governance in terms of burdensomeness and democracy. These difficulties seem to be largely resolved today. Heeding those responsible would reassure us that this money will effectively and truly enable poor countries to effectively combat global warming. Another very important task awaits us: to hand over to the European Commission a National Energy-Climate Plan. We need voluntarism in order to arrive at a plan that is as ambitious as Parliament wanted, particularly in December last year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u182	Mr President, if I may, I would like to thank Mr Dallemagne for his open-mindedness on this particularly important issue, which concerns us all. Indeed, in committee, we have adopted this proposal to hear the Green Climate Fund in order to better identify the projects carried out through this mechanism. And, with regard to a budget-neutral operation, I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not want a new tax for our taxpayers. We do not want new expenditure, but, as Mr Dallemagne has mentioned, it is still possible to reallocate appropriations which have not yet been used from one post to the next in order to double the Green Climate Fund. For us, this is a matter of common sense. It is a text that underscores our ambition to contribute to doubling the Fund, while taking into account the constraints of day-to-day affairs. It is in fact a sensible compromise that Parliament can endorse. It is a concrete response to the citizens' appeal. Mr President, I wanted to make this report to all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u183	This is a motion for a resolution. Does the government wish to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u184	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Dallemagne pointed out, I could not be present at Parliament's work in this resolution. But I wanted to attend your exchanges and I understood that the work had been very constructive. I thank Parliament for that. The resolution is a mechanism by which Parliament asks the government to act. This is the translation of Charles Michel's commitment to the United Nations last September. This approach, it seems to me, was entirely legitimate in the context of Belgium's contractual commitment to respect the Paris Agreement and to contribute to the financing of the least favoured countries, which are the ones that take full advantage of the consequences of climate change. Today, the resolution is well marked. As Mr. From Maegd, it is particularly judicious as it puts forward the principle of budgetary neutrality. In response to Mr Dallemagne, this means that in reality no other appropriations can be allocated as a result of this commitment and that the money that will be used to fulfil this commitment will have to be compensated, since it is necessary to remain within a framework of budgetary neutrality. I think that's a good thing. Indeed, one of the problems we had encountered in the context of the burden sharing for the years 2013-2020 was specifically the level of contributions from the Federal and the Regions, and more generally, Belgium's contribution to this global green fund. The federal makes a decision and shows the way. The Brussels Region has to deal with the first work of the burden sharing 2021-2030 until the end of December. I have no doubt that it gives impetus at the level of the Regions to join the effort thus made by the federal government. I see in the parliamentary proceedings that you have managed to find this majority. I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u185	Minister, thank you for your response. Having said that, I would like you to reassure me that this is not happening at the expense of another global warming fund. I have not heard a precise answer on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u186	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u187	You talked about budgetary neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u188	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u189	I must understand that this will be done at the expense of another budget fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u190	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u191	I just want a clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u192	As Mr. From Maegd, there are credits that are not used. And one day, I hope, there will be another full-fledged government that will continue this work. For these sums will not be allocated in one time, but over several years. For the first implementation of this commitment, unused appropriations may be used for the practical implementation of this commitment for the first financial period.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u193	It's important because, as I said yesterday in committee, I don't want a pass trick. I don't want anyone to smoke us. I can understand that, for this year, unused budget queues are being used. But, in the long run, if we are going to rob another global warming fund, particularly for the least developed countries, for the benefit of that fund, I believe that not all the clarity has been achieved over the current financial year, which I will deeply regret. In any case, our group will be very attentive to this issue, because it is not just a question of making announcements, of pretending; it is a question of really increasing our contribution to the fight against global warming.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u194	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u195	Demand Unique/Single request • 8.. Thierry Warmous (572/8) • 15............................................................................................................................. • 13 – Sarah Schlitz cs (572/8) • Malik Ben Acour cs (572/8) Demand 2(n)/Question 2(n) • 12 • Malik Ben Acour cs (572/8) • 14 – Sarah Schlitz cs (572/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u196	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u197	The next item is the election for the appointment of the alternate member of Mr. David Baele, an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The next item is the vote on the appointment of the Deputy Member of Mr David Baele, Permanent Member of the Prison Central Supervisory Board. The Central Prison Supervision Board consists of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members who are appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Central Supervisory Board shall consist of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on 10 July 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 10 July 2019. The Justice Commission heard the two candidates on October 1, 2019. Stefaan Van Hecke reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 October 2019. The Justice Committee heard both candidates on 1 October 2019. Mr Stefaan Van Hecke reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 16 October 2019. The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (629/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (629/1) Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u198	The next item is the election for the appointment of non-notary members of the commissions of appointment for the notariat, pursuant to Article 38 of the Law of the 25 Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years, with a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of non-notaries of the notaries' appointment committees, pursuant to Article 38 of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI on the notary's office. These members shall be appointed for a period of four years by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001 on the functioning of the commissions of appointment for the notariat, the appointment of the members will be published in the Belgian Moniteur. This publication is equivalent to installation. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 7 of the Royal Decree of 9 March 2001 determining the functioning of the notarial appointment committees, the appointment of the members will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. This notice shall be deemed to be an installation. Pursuant to Article 37, § 7, paragraphs one and two of the above-mentioned Act, the term of office of the members shall run until 30 June 2023. In the light of the first and second paragraphs of Article 37 (7) of the above Act, the term of office of Members runs until 30 June 2023. The Chamber must appoint two judges (1 F + 1 N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the actual members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 F + 1 N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the alternate members. The Chamber must appoint two magistrates (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the working members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the alternate members. Nominations were announced during the September 26, 2019 session. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 26 September 2019. The lists of candidates were distributed. (630/1) The list of candidates has been distributed. (630/1) However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for the alternate members: However, I would draw your attention to the the following as regards alternate members: There is no need to vote for the French-speaking "teachers/teachers" category. Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. I therefore declare Mr. Pierre Moreau elected, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, as an alternate non-notary member of the commission of appointment in the French language. We should not vote for the French professors/teachers. There is only one candidate for this mandate. As a result, Mr Pierre Moreau, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, 6, of the Chamber Rules of Procedure, elected as an alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking appointment committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. There is no need to vote for the French-speaking "external member" category. Indeed, there is only one candidate for this term. I therefore declare Mrs Anne Louis elected, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, as an alternate non-notary member of the commission of appointment in the French language. We should not vote for the French-speaking external Member. There is only one candidate for this mandate. Consequently, Mrs Anne Louis, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, 6, of the Chamber Rules of Procedure, elected as an alternate non-notary member of the French-speaking appointment committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. As regards the actual members, a vote must therefore be held for the French- and Dutch-speaking "magistrate" and "external member" categories and, as regards the alternate members, for the Dutch-speaking "magistrate", "teachers/teachers" and "external member". As far as working members are concerned, we must therefore vote in favour of the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking categories'magistraat' and 'external member' and, as far as alternate members are concerned, for the Dutch-speaking categories'magistraat', 'professors/teachers' and 'external member'. Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Since ballots are secret, ballots cannot be signed. As the votes are secret, the ballots must not be signed. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I would like to point out that it is appropriate to vote by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate and that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate per term are invalid. I would point out that in order to vote, a cross is placed in the box opposite the name of the elected candidate and that the votes cast are invalid on more than one candidate per mandate. I invite the two youngest members (Ms Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove) to make the roll call. I need the youngest two Members (Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove) to call out the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u199	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the votes closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u200	The next item is the election for the nomination of two alternate French-speaking members, for the Doctor of Science category, of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos. The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of two French-speaking alternate members, for the PhD category, of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on embryo-synthesis in vitro. During the plenary session on 22 November 2018, the alternate members were appointed for the categories for which sufficient nominations had been submitted. At the plenary session of 22 November 2018, alternates were appointed for the categories for which sufficient applications were submitted. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, the SPF Santé publique published a fifth call for candidates to the Moniteur belge of 25 February 2019 for two vacancies of alternate French-speaking members for the Doctor of Science category. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, the FPS Public Health announced a fifth call to candidates in the Belgian State Gazette of 25 February 2019 for the two missing mandates of French-speaking alternate member of the PhD category. Only one candidacy was submitted, namely that of Mr Luc Michel, who was announced in plenary session on 18 July 2019. Only one application was submitted, namely the one from Mr Luc Michel announced at the plenary session of 18 July 2019. Since there is only one candidate, the Chamber may declare Mr. Luc Michel elected as an alternate French-speaking member, for the Doctor of Science category, of the Federal Commission for Medical and Scientific Research on In vitro Embryos, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the Chamber. Since there is only one candidate, Mr Luc Michel may, pursuant to Rule 157, 6, of the Rules of Procedure of the Federal Committee for Medical and Scientific Research on Embroidery in vitro, to be elected as a French-speaking alternate member. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. A term of office is still vacant. There is still one outstanding mandate. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 9 October 2019, I propose that you request the SPF Santé publique to publish a new call for candidates to the Moniteur belge for the appointment of the missing alternate member (doctor in French-speaking sciences). In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 9 October 2019, I propose to ask the Public Health Office to publish a new call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the appointment of the missing deputy member (French-speaking doctor in science). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u201	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 January 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 5 February 2019 for the terms of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee for the Control of Police Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 24 January 2019, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 5 February 2019 for the mandates of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wouter Benoit, attached to the Administration of Customs and Excise - Ms Ariane Braccio, judge at the Limburg Court of First Instance - Mr. Steven Limburg, Director of Criminal Law, FPS Justice - Mr. Rudy Verbeeck, police officer. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wouter Benoit, Attaché to the Customs and Excise Administration - Ms Ariane Braccio, Judge in the Court of First Instance of Limburg - Mr Steven Limbourg, Director of Criminal Law at the FPS Justice - Mr. Rudy Verbeeck, police officer. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The follow-up committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. The candidates shall be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u202	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 17 July 2019 for a term of office as the first Dutch-speaking alternate of the Standing Committee for the Control of Police Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 July 2019 for a mandate of Dutch-speaking first deputy member of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wouter Benoit, attached to the Administration of Customs and Excise - Ms. Ariane Braccio, judge at the Limburg Court of First Instance. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Wouter Benoit, Attaché to Customs and Excise Administration - Ms Ariane Braccio, Judge in the court of first instance Limburg. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the two candidates to the political groups. The follow-up committee of the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee R will hold the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that the curriculum vitae of both candidates be delivered to the political groups. The candidates shall be heard by the committee responsible for supervising the Standing Committee P and the Standing Committee I. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u203	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on Justice: - the motion for a resolution on gender-based cyberviolence, No 167/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 October 2019, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on Justice: - the motion for a resolution on tackling gender-related cyber violence, No. 167/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. This proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u204	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill confirming the Royal Decree of 15 October 2018 was tabled setting for 2018 the amount of the allocation contribution referred to in Article 14, § 8, paragraph 16, of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions established for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such plants, No. 0635/1. The Government requested urgent treatment pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 15 October 2018 fixing for the year 2018 the amount of the remuneration referred to in Article 14 (8) of the Law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in those nuclear power stations, No. 0635/1. Colleagues, will a member of the government justify this request for urgency?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for specifying which project it was. Several members of the government sit in your Parliament. This is the allocation contribution for non-extended plants. It is a matter of urgent confirmation in order to obtain the funds paid in a tax framework by Electrabel, which is very important for Mrs Wilmès, in particular. We should deal with this issue as a matter of urgency so that it can be voted on before the end of the year, and so that we can then ask the taxpayer to pay for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u206	We are at the end of October. There's still the whole month of November. I do not see what is preventing us from voting Mrs Marghem's text on time and before the end of the year. Indeed, if I understand correctly, we must vote on it before the end of the year, otherwise we will have a funding problem. But we still have all November. If we work well in committee, we can come back here in December and vote on this text. I don't see exactly where the emergency is, Mrs. Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u207	If you don't want to get funds into the state coffers as quickly as possible, that's your problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u208	Mrs Marghem, I recognize you here, in your taste for polemics. I'm asking you a question. Is the deadline at the end of December? If so, we are largely in time. Do you have another argument?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u209	My argument is that these contributions should be returned as soon as possible. If you don't agree, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u210	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u211	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (294/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (294/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 68 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 66 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (199/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (199/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u214	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wouter Vermeersch on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Wouter Vermeersch to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[39]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Wouter Vermeersch on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on amendment No. 10 by Wouter Vermeersch to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 119 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sander Loones cs on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Sander Loones cs to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Wouter Vermeersch on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Wouter Vermeersch to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Raoul Hedebouw cs on Article 2. (413/5) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Raoul Hedebouw cs to Article 2. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 76 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Article 2, as amended, was adopted. The annexed tables were adopted. Article 2 as amended has been adopted. The attached tables have been adopted. An explanation of vote may be given later, but now we are not commenting. We shall continue with the vote on the following amendment. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Wouter Vermeersch on Article 10. (413/5) Vote on amendment No 8 of Wouter Vermeersch to Article 10. (413/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes [[38]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Georges Dallemagne and Sophie Wilmès voted against. Ladies and gentlemen, because an amendment has just been adopted, we cannot proceed to the final vote today (Rule 95). The vote on this bill will therefore take place only after the autumn holidays.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u215	Mr President, I no longer remember the Rules of Procedure very well, but can we not reopen the debate today when an amendment is adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u216	You still have five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u217	Mr. President, I trust you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u218	I trust the House. I trust his voting behavior. As the amendment is accepted, it is the application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u219	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Thierry Warmoes at the sole request. (572/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Thierry Warmoes on the single request. (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u220	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 66 Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u221	Really, I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a couple of hours if we can't work seriously. There are still a few votes and then the work has been done. That everyone listens carefully now, because they are indeed very daring moods. Vote on Amendment No 15 from Malik Ben Achor at the sole request. (572/8) Vote on Amendment No 15 by Malik Ben Achour on the single request. (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 64 Yes No. 71 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 from Sarah Schlitz cs at the sole request. (572/8) Vote on amendment No 13 by Sarah Schlitz cs on the single request. (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 48 Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 11 from Malik Ben Accour cs at the sole request. (572/8) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Malik Ben Achour cs to the single request. (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 66 Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 12 from Malik Ben Acour cs to insert a request 2(n). (572/8) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Malik Ben Achour cs to insert a request 2(n). (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 66 Yes No. 68 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u222	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Sarah Schlitz cs inserting a request 2(n). (572/8) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Sarah Schlitz cs to insert a request 2(n). (572/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 66 Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Mr Clarinval, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u224	Mr President, before the sitting is concluded and the last vote is taken, I would ask you to suspend the sitting in order to examine the timetable for discussing the provisional twelfths. Indeed, if we take into account the normal timetable, we will be beyond 1 November and there will be no more credit. I therefore request a suspension of the meeting, so that the Conference of Presidents can be convened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u225	I propose a suspension so that the Conference of Presidents can meet. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u226	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u227	Voters 135 Stemmen White or invalid 3 Blank or invalid Valid 132 Geldig Two-thirds majority 88 Two-thirds majority M. Florent De Mond a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Florent De Mouth received 0 votes. Greet Smaers obtained 132 votes. Mrs Greet Smaers received 132 votes. Mrs Greet Smaers, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr David Baele. Ms Greet Smaers, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was elected as an alternate member of Mr David Baele.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u228	Voters 134 Stemmen White or invalid 22 Blank or invalid Valid 112 Geldig Two-thirds majority 75 Two-thirds majority Actual members
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u229	For the French-language appointment commission: For the French-speaking appointment committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. As magistrate: Ms. Diane Babette obtained 113 votes. Mrs Diane Babette received 113 votes. Mr. Constant Laffineur obtained 0 votes. Mr Constant Laffineur received 0 votes. 2. As an external member: 2. As an external member: Ms. Muriel Clavie obtained 108 votes. Mrs Muriel Clavie received 108 votes. Mr. Arnaud Gillard obtained 3 votes. Mr Arnaud Gillard received three votes. Mr Alain Lonhienne obtained 0 votes. Mr Alain Lonhienne received 0 votes. For the Dutch-language appointment committee: For the Dutch appointing committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. As magistrate: Ms. Ilse Cardoen obtained 0 votes. Mrs Ilse Cardoen has received 0 votes. Ms. Nadia Goossens obtained 107 votes. Mrs Nadia Goossens received 107 votes. Ms. Chantal Lanssens obtained 1 vote. Mrs Chantal Lanssens received one vote. Mme Alexandra Schoenmaekers a obtenu 1 voix. Mrs Alexandra Schoenmaekers received one vote. Mr. Patrick Tailly obtained 0 votes. Mr Patrick Tailly received 0 votes. 2. As an external member: 2. As an external member: Mme Leen Desticker a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs. Leen Desticker got 0 votes. Mme Alexandra Schoenmaekers a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Alexandra Schoenmaekers received 0 votes. Mr. Philippe Traest obtained 107 votes. Mr Philippe Traest received 107 votes. M. Herman Van Driessche a obtenu 1 voix. Mr Herman Van Driessche received one vote. M. Stefaan Foot a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Stefaan Voet received 0 votes. Accordingly, the following are hereby declared elected as effective members of the commissions of appointment for the notariat: Therefore, as effective members of the nomination committees for the notary, the following are declared to be elected: For the French-language appointment commission: For the French-speaking appointment committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. As magistrate: Ms. Diane Babette Ms Diane Babette 2. As an external member: 2. As an external member: Ms. Muriel Clavie Ms Muriel Clavie For the Dutch-speaking appointment commission: For the Dutch-speaking appointment committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. In the capacity of magistrate Ms Nadia Goossens Ms Nadia Goossens 2. As an external member: 2. As an external member: Mr. Philippe Traest Mr Philippe Traest
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u230	For the Dutch-language appointment committee: For the Dutch appointing committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. As magistrate: Ms. Ilse Cardoen obtained 107 votes. Mrs Ilse Cardoen has received 107 votes. Mr. Patrick Tailly obtained two votes. Mr Patrick Tailly received two votes. 2. As teachers/teachers: 2. As professors/teachers: Mr. Philippe Traest obtained 1 vote. Mr Philippe Traest received one vote. M. Stefaan Foot a obtenu 107 voix. Mr Stefaan Voet received 107 votes. 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Mme Leen Desticker a obtenu 108 voix. Mrs Leen Desticker received 108 votes. Mr. Philippe Traest obtained 0 votes. Mr Philippe Traest received 0 votes. M. Stefaan Foot a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Stefaan Voet received 0 votes. Accordingly, the following are hereby elected as alternate members of the appointing committees for the notariat: As a result, alternate members of the nomination committees for the notary are elected: For the Dutch-speaking appointment commission: For the Dutch-speaking appointment committee: 1. As a magistrate: 1. As magistrate: Ms. Ilse Cardoen Mrs Ilse Cardoen 2. As a teacher/teacher: 2. In the capacity of Professor/Teacher: Mr Stefaan Foot Mr Stefaan Foot 3. As an external member: 3. As an external member: Mme Leen Desticker Mrs Leen Desticker
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u232	Mr President, my group will support the motion for a resolution, but on his behalf I choose to abstain. I am not going to repeat the debate but, of course, doubling support for the Climate Fund is fair and necessary. Climate and solidarity are priorities, but the fact that the amendment proposals have not been supported poses a real problem for us. The need to respect budgetary neutrality suggests that the climate is not seen as an investment that deserves full support. On the other hand, the fact that official development assistance cannot be immunized is a problem for us, given that we are only 0.44% of GNI. For these reasons, I will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u233	If there are no other explanations of vote, we can proceed to the vote. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (572/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (572/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-24-55-plenair-ip010x.u234	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. You received a draft agenda for Thursday, 7 November. However, there is an additional plenary sitting on Thursday 31 October at 2 p.m. with the vote on the draft provisional twelfths. Five days should be allowed to do so. It could be earlier than Thursday, but the Conference of Presidents unanimously decided to meet on the normal scheduled day of plenary. There is only one item on the agenda, namely the vote on the draft provisional twelfths. No observation? [[No]] The agendas for the plenary meetings on Thursday, 31 October and 7 November were approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agendas for Thursdays 31 October and 7 November were adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 31, 2019 at 2:00 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 31 October 2019 at 2 p.m.
