ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u1	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, we have received testimony from field actors on the problematic situation of volunteer firefighters. As you may know, there are no fewer than 18,000 firefighters in Belgium, a large part of whom are volunteers. It is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit them, especially because the training lasts two years. The recent decision to abolish some civil protection barracks in rural areas has further exacerbated the lack of service for the relief of the population. The status of volunteer firefighters, which has been standardized since 2014 for Belgium as a whole, provides for greater flexibility and freedom for the volunteer. The Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 on the administrative status of operational personnel in relief zones and the circular of 22 April 2014 on the organisation of the availability of volunteers in public fire services provide that the volunteer's schedule must be established in consultation with the zone. However, many volunteers, after 20 to 25 years of career, following the reform, are no longer able, for professional reasons, to attend continuing training, which leads to resignations. The replacement of the "old" is no longer taking place and it is becoming difficult for the relief areas to have the strength to provide service to the population. In addition, this reform was supposed to lead to equality between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. But it turns out that the opposite is happening. For example, there is no possibility of end-of-career accommodation for volunteer firefighters. It's all or nothing. And many volunteer firefighters are no longer able to reconcile their professional and private lives. Moreover, it appears that frontier volunteer firefighters, whether working in France, Germany, the Netherlands or Luxembourg, do not benefit from the benefits of recovering working time for training hours. The reform also raises questions about the timing of availability and response times for volunteer firefighters over the age of 50 or 55. Minister, how do you explain that, contrary to what you announced, there is a difference in treatment between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters? Do you intend to put in place concrete measures to ensure that the two statutes are harmonised? Why is the reform not able to offer more freedom and flexibility to volunteer firefighters, particularly in terms of recovery hours? Why is the end-of-career development of volunteer firefighters problematic? Do you intend to change the situation? For example, after 10, 20, 25 or 30 years, the firefighter could take his pension earlier. This would be more consistent than the current premium of €8.33 per month. Finally, why is there a difference in judgment in terms of penitibility between the occupation of firefighter and that of volunteer firefighter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u2	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, the aim of the reform has never been to establish an identical status for professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters. The aim was to standardize the status of professional firefighters, on the one hand, and the status of volunteer firefighters, on the other. The report to the King on administrative status explains the differences between volunteer firefighters and professional firefighters. He mentioned that the legal position of volunteer firefighters was sui generis in view of their specific role in the organisation of the zones. Since they only provide benefits if they are called by the intervention police zone, some rights are assigned to them and others are not. Volunteer firefighters have the opportunity to communicate, in real time, their availability or unavailability time range. This flexibility in making themselves available is an element that ensures that the voluntary nature of the civic commitment of these firefighters is respected. Since this is not a final appointment and the volunteer firefighter alone decides on his/her availability within the limits defined by the statute, certain rights are not granted to him/her such as leave, reassignment and a specific end-of-care scheme. At the same time, the volunteer firefighter has a tax exemption and a social security contribution exemption to which professional fire service members are not entitled. As you yourself point out, the administrative status and the ministerial circular of 21 April 2014 on the organization of volunteer availability have enabled volunteers to be given greater freedom and flexibility. In addition, at our request, the Regions have put in place an educational leave which currently covers 212 hours of the 264 hours of basic information or training of the volunteer firefighter. It is obvious that this educational leave does not apply to persons who work abroad. As far as continuing training is concerned, it is only 24 hours a year. A draft royal decree provides for the distribution of this obligation of continuing training over five years. Providing a 120-hour continuing training requirement for each five-year period will allow for greater flexibility and take into account the availability of volunteer firefighters. Planning the availability time of older volunteer firefighters is within the autonomy of their employer's emergency zone. Indeed, it is the rescue zone itself which sets the minimum availability of volunteer firefighters in the internal rules referred to in Article 177 of the Administrative Statute. There is no objection to the zonal regulation providing for age-related modulation of requirements. In addition, the financial status provides for the possibility for rescue zones to grant a recognition allowance to volunteer firefighters when they leave the service. As far as public sector pensions are concerned, as part of the calculation of career duration, an increase coefficient is applied for the years provided as a voluntary firefighter, even if they are not taken into account for the calculation of the pension. The application of this increase coefficient therefore allows the volunteer firefighter to take up his pension early in his main occupation. Finally, as regards taking account of the severity and specific risks, there is no difference between professional and volunteer firefighters. On the one hand, the Royal Decree of 28 May 2003 on worker health surveillance provides for increased surveillance for all firefighters, both professional and voluntary. On the other hand, article 106, paragraph 2, of the Law of 15 May 2007 on Civil Security provides that the Statute shall take into account the specific risks inherent in the main tasks of the operational personnel of the relief zones. The law does not discriminate between professional firefighters and volunteer firefighters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u3	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer, which I will not fail to analyse. A lot of testimony has come to us from the ground. This is also the subject of my next question. I relay them here because it is a real concern for us. We know how important firefighters are to our fellow citizens. Minister, I will read your answer carefully and certainly come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u4	Minister, my group is paying sincere attention to the difficult job of firefighter. That's why I'm taking over the field by questioning you. As you know, firefighters are so much in demand that some of them are exhausted because of the tasks they have to perform. They often have more hours than is legally permitted. As a reminder, the unions estimate that there is a shortage of between 800 and 1,000 staff. According to a European directive, firefighters are not allowed 24-hour or 12-hour guards, except on an exceptional basis. Only an 8-hour working time is allowed. However, firefighters are regularly obliged to work 24 hours or more to ensure sufficient service. In this case, their safety, but also that of the citizens, is being undermined. Moreover, this problem poses serious questions in terms of accountability. Indeed, in the event of a fireman's accident, who is responsible? The employer? The zone commander? On 24 May 2016, in a letter to the presidents of the rescue zones, your predecessor stated that the working regime of the operational agents of the rescue zones in 24-hour shifts is clearly incompatible with a view to social progress and raises questions in terms of security, especially since it is contrary to the Belgian State's international commitments. On April 4, the Civil Security Advisor at Jambon had sent an e-mail to the area commanders, indicating that the organization of the 24-hour and 12-hour shift was no longer structurally feasible. Only 8-hour shifts would still be allowed. The e-mail also indicated that the risk of a complaint from trade unions or firefighters was minimal. Here are my questions, Minister. How do you justify the mail sent by Jambon to zone commanders? What about the responsibility of the president and zone commander in the event of an accident by a firefighter who would work in 24-hour shifts? Can you guarantee that in the event of an accident by a firefighter working under this regime, neither the responsibility of the president nor that of the commander would be engaged? Can you indicate whether the emergency areas can organize the work in shifts of 24 hours or 12 hours at night? If so, can it do so by ignoring European legislation? Finally, how do you envisage concretely helping relief areas to organize themselves to implement the legal obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u5	Mr Vanden Burre, you had already raised the issue in this committee's consideration of the bill dealing with various domestic provisions on 19 and 20 June last year, according to what I read in the report. The response that Minister Jambon gave you on this occasion remains fully relevant. The organisation of work on the basis of the 24-hour shift may have adverse consequences for the health and safety of the staff and therefore for the safety of the citizen. This is evident from various international studies but also from the study carried out by my services in collaboration with the SPF Emploi, Travail et Concertation sociale. The conclusions of this study are as follows. Compared to the 8-hour shift, the risk of accident and illness is one third higher for 12-hour shift and doubled for 24-hour shift. From the point of view of worker safety and health, only 8-hour services are justified and longer working hours should be avoided as much as possible. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not because of the workload that some professional firefighters work in 24-hour shifts. It is a work schedule that has been in place in some barracks in a structural way for several decades. As far as the purely legal aspect is concerned, the European Directive makes it possible to derogate, for civil security services, from the 11-hour daily rest rule and the rules applicable to night work. The recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the Matzak case recommends some moderation in the use of these derogations. In Belgian law, the law of 19 April 2014 on the working time of firefighters does not prohibit 24 hour shifts either. They are therefore not illegal but are strongly discouraged. I also confirm that the emergency zone, as an employer, is responsible for the well-being of its workers and the quality of their interventions. You also refer to an e-mail addressed to the area commander on 4 April by an advisor to my predecessor's office. It seems, from the information you are giving me, that the content is in line with the answers given earlier by Minister Jambon. Finally, switching from a 24-hour shift to a 12-hour shift to an 8-hour shift can only have beneficial effects on a potential understaffing situation. Indeed, this change in the organization of work makes it possible to modulate the staff present in barracks according to the actual operational requirements, as already pointed out in the circular of 24 May 2016 on the 24-hour shift. I quote: "The statistics clearly show a sharp decrease in the number of interventions at night and at weekends. The rate of service determined by the emergency zone and the risk analysis shall allow for the modification of the number of professional firefighters required to be present in the various emergency stations, depending on the days and hours. In this regard, it should be noted that night and weekend are periods during which the availability of volunteers is logically the highest." As a result, an emergency station that works with 24-hour shifters cannot vary its strength depending on the day and night periods. This 24-hour shift organization therefore requires more staff to carry out the same missions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u6	Minister, thank you for this detailed answer, which also refers to what your predecessor had answered. I will read it with interest because it is long and detailed. It is true that you have clarified some important things, but it is also important that the legislation and recommendations in force be applied for the well-being of those firefighters who are already making an effort towards our citizens, and who are playing a very important role.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 28199 by Mr Kir will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 28199 by Mr Kir. 28215 by Mrs Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u8	Mr.Minister, this subject has been very active in this Parliament in relation to a decision taken by your predecessor, by the government of which your party was a member. Of course, I want to talk about the closure of the Civil Protection barracks. On January 1, 2019, four Civil Protection barracks were permanently closed, 4 out of 6. The transfers will take place to the barracks of Brasschaat in Flanders and Crisnée in Wallonia. The Civil Protection Reform Plan was released by your predecessor on April 4, 2017, as you certainly know. The exchanges in plenary and committee with regard to what we called a 'dismantlement' and in any case a serious breach of the quality of public service in terms of internal security for our citizens, had been particularly lively. The reform of the Civil Protection provides for the reorganisation of the barracks, but also of the functions and staff. In the future, in the event of an incident, firefighters will act on the front line and Civil Protection will act on the front line. Of the 450 professionals, 30 per cent would not be included. These figures are not entirely confirmed to my knowledge. Examinations were conducted to select the 313 retained staff. The others had to be redirected to jobs in the public. This selection was judged critically or even negatively by the trade union organisations and was not transparent in their view. Moreover, for many agents, the choice to preserve only the barracks of Crisnée in Wallonia raises questions and risks penalizing the population. The journey times for many interventions in Wallonia will be more than two hours, which is huge in case of emergency. It is also our responsibility that nothing is ready at the Crisne barracks to welcome the new agents: there are not enough offices, living rooms, dormitories. We've been able to see television reports about this. This is extremely problematic and worrying. In addition, the Brussels Region had also threatened to table a motion in conflict of interest against the reform, since the barracks closest to the capital will now be in Brasschaat, about an hour's drive from Brussels. Minister, you wrote to the governors to give them details of this reform. Your spokesman said that "the necessary measures are taken to ensure the safety of citizens". Do you intend to keep the four barracks closed or go back, in part, to the reform carried out by your predecessor, Minister Jambon? Do you not think that at least adjustments should be made to this reform? Secondly, how are the staff selections referred to made? To which public jobs is staff who are not retained reorientated? On what criteria did this selection take place? Thirdly, what clarification have you given to the governors about this issue? What steps have been taken, as you describe them, in the press? Fourthly, did the transfer of personnel to the Crisne barracks go well? Under what material conditions is the situation currently evolving? According to the echoes that come to us, the conditions on the ground are extremely complicated. Finally, is there a mobility solution for transferees, given that the Crisnea area is underserved by public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u9	As you know, the closure of four out of six Civil Protection barracks took effect on 1 January this year. However, it appears that at the end of December, the units concerned by the closure were still unclear as to the measures to allow the transition. This is true with regard to measures relating to the transfer of equipment and measures relating to buildings, which are now unoccupied and therefore left unattended overnight. This is even more true with regard to the staff situation. Who remains in Civil Protection and who has a vocation to be integrated into relief areas? Concerns also exist about the resumption of missions so far completed by the Emergency Preparedness units. The question of the time required for intervention at the barracks remains a matter of concern for all the actors concerned. You would have received a letter to that effect at the end of last year. The situation is worrying, given the important tasks that Civil Protection is carrying out with the population, but it also highlights an attitude which, in my view, does not respect civil protection workers. What about it? Today is February. What is the situation on the ground? What is the situation of staff, and what is the situation of equipment? What measures have been taken for buildings? From an operational point of view, what plans are in place to ensure that the response capacity is maintained in the event of an intervention? Would you not consider, as has been mentioned, maintaining advanced Civil Protection posts at various places in Wallonia, given the remoteness of the post of Crisnea and its poor geographical position in relation to the entire Walloon territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u10	[[...]] The reform, Mr Vanden Burre, has just been implemented on 1 January this year. It is therefore impossible to reverse a decision to reorganize and close the four barracks. I therefore suggest, before referring to any adaptations, that a certain period of time be left in order to take stock of them. With regard to staff selections for the new organization of protection as such, each staff member, at all grades, was given the opportunity to apply for it. Selections were made on the basis of technical and generic criteria and staff who did not wish to integrate the new organisation or staff who failed the selection test were offered various job offers mainly within the Internal FPS but also within other FPS such as, for example, public entities. I can mention the Office of Foreigners, call centre 1733, 112, emergency areas, federal police and many others. Security is not in jeopardy because since the reform of the relief zones, the latter have been strengthened. They exercise local expertise, while Civil Protection is a specialized service that complements relief areas for specific missions. Thus, a mesh remains assured. The integration into the Crisne barracks of all the employees who applied for and passed the selection examination was effective and went well. As far as mobility is concerned, hourly schedules take into account the carpooling wishes of the agents. With regard to Mr. Thiébaut's questions, all the officers who passed the selection examinations at the new organization were taken over. Some of them have withdrawn to be employed in relief zones or other services. Staff who did not wish to integrate or be integrated into the new organization or staff who failed the selection tests were offered various job offers mainly within the Internal FPS, but also within other FPS or public entities. Operational equipment is almost entirely transferred to the two units of Brasschaat and Crisnea. Partly, the move had been carried out in anticipation of the closure of the barracks, while taking into account the missions that were still in the hands of the units that had to close. The remainder of the equipment has been moved since the reform came into effect and is expected to be completed by the end of February. The management of the buildings of the four closed units is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, the owner of which. Arrangements have been made with the Régie to provide access to these buildings to Emergency Preparedness personnel during the relocation period. The Régie is currently in contact with potential buyers. I would add that following the conflict of interest raised by Brussels, negotiations are under way with the competent services in Brussels to reach a satisfactory situation without, however, reopening these barracks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. We wanted to apply the formula and wait for the reform to see. On the ground, there is a clear picture of the difficulties involved. From the beginning, we are opposed to this reform on a question of quality of intervention, remoteness and quality of public service. The implementation has been under way for months, although it is true that the reform took effect on January 1, 2019. In any case, it has been months since we have had discussions with the workers' representatives on the spot, and we have had very negative and intriguing signals. Sometimes you have to agree to review his copy. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to work in this direction and to question you because the situation is very problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u12	Minister, thank you for that clarification. We referred earlier to the distance from Brasschaat from Brussels (one hour's drive). What about the distance from Crisnée compared to Seveso companies located in the Mons or Tournai zoning (two hours drive)! This is very far from the areas concerned by the possible risks (Seveso companies or others). I think there will have to be an evaluation at some point. I hope that the post-reform assessment of disaster management will not have to wait for a disaster. It would be opportune to imagine possibilities of having, in spite of everything, not reopening of barracks, but openings of advanced posts. As in Jabbeke, which is near Brussels, it makes sense to have people available near risk areas rather than two hours' drive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz has converted 28345 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u14	Minister, I had first addressed this question to Minister De Block, but it appears to be within the competence of the Minister for the Interior. Especially after your statements last weekend, I think that makes sense. Minister, in March 2018, the federal government decided that, under the nuclear emergency plan, every Belgian could pick up free iodine pills in the pharmacy. Some time later, it seems to me that this is the right time to ask about the state of affairs. How many civilians have effectively brought iodine tablets into their homes? What is the state of play for collections such as schools, businesses, sports centres? How many collections have effectively stored a stock of iodine tablets? Is the government's regulation whereby citizens have to take their own iodine pills efficient enough? I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u15	Mr Calvo, in 2018, 215 337 boxes were removed by individuals or family heads. 430 982 boxes of iodine tablets were removed by 3 583 collections. The current predistribution strategy builds on the previous distribution of iodine tablets around the nuclear sites. In addition, stocks of iodine tablets are now available in all pharmacies of the country to meet any needs in the event of an acute reactive distribution. Moreover, Civilian Protection also has stocks and there is a national stock to meet, among other things, the continuing demand of the population. The National Crisis Centre also organised numerous information sessions throughout the country in collaboration with the partners concerned, both for the general public and for doctors and pharmacists. In addition, an e-learning module was developed for care providers in order to provide the best possible information to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will read the exact figures in the integrated report, because you spoke a little too quickly to record them exactly. You spoke slowly enough to allow me to make the next assessment. There are many people and collections who have already taken iodine pills, but when you see how many people live near nuclear installations, it is noted that many people have not yet entered iodine tablets. Well, that puts us at a challenge, doesn't it? I have not been able to convince the previous Home Secretary of any other strategy. One could also choose to distribute them. That has a number of drawbacks. A formula has been chosen in which people have to pick them up themselves. In any case, I think there is still a lot of work to do to make this even more public and to carry it out, so that more people have these tablets at home. I invite you to work on that. To ask a minister in current affairs to complete the emergency plan would be a little too much to ask. A further publication of the current offer is necessary if it is to be found that a lot of people have not yet put the tablets in.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u17	If it is right for the Minister, I will turn my other question into a written question and I will gladly take the answer with me. That saves the Minister the necessary energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo 28347 has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Pas 28357's question will also be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u19	Minister, like me, you will have read the articles in the South Press Group on 12 January under the title "Aggressions against the police: the explosion!" We remember the tragedy of 2018, when three police officers died during their mission. These tragedies remind us of the dangerous nature of police work. The risk also exists on a daily basis. I read in one of the articles that violence against police officers has a heavy impact on their unavailability. According to the journalist, "nothing at the federal police level, in 2017 there were 6,033 days of sick leave due to violence-related accidents." This situation is recurrent and, as we all know, linked to multiple and complex causes. Should we fear an increase in risks, at a time when many observers fear an increase in violence and the possible radicalisation of social opposition? Already in 2012, following violent incidents involving the police services and a notice of strike by the police unions, a memorandum of understanding on combating violence against members of the police services was concluded, and various measures were planned. Some measures have been implemented, others have been delayed due to several difficulties. I would also refer you to an assessment report submitted by the P Committee in 2018 on this subject. Is it possible for you to object to this phenomenon of violence against police officers? How many assaults have been committed against police officers? What is the number of workdays rendered unavailable and what is the cost? Could you provide us with an assessment of the implementation of the measures taken and to be taken, as provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding? Can you provide us with a qualitative assessment of the measures in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u20	Dear colleague, your question is very interesting. I have a lot of data on this, including figures and figures. If the President allows me, I intend to provide you with this data now, including for the next question, where you are also asking me for concrete data. If the President allows you to ask your second question, I will provide you with the relevant information in order to give you a coherent answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u21	Mr President, I come to my next question, which is very brief and which is indeed a follow-up to the previous question. I will, of course, exempt the minister from quoting all the figures; I will be aware of them with interest in the documents available to me. In the immediate aftermath of this issue of violence, I would like to quote the conclusion of South Press journalists who have produced this dossier. They state that "if the first persons responsible for these acts are indeed those who commit them, one cannot silence the part of the responsibility that those who have not been able to ensure a sufficient number of police officers bear, thereby weakening their action, their health and their authority". As a counterpoint to this issue, I also read, minister, one of your interviews in which you announced an increase in police recruitment, which I am pleased to hear. I would have liked you to give us more details on this. Specifically, how much, when and for what services? Could you also give us an assessment of the current capabilities of the various federal police services? I see the numbers are coming and raining in tens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u22	Dear colleague, indeed, you have just received the answer to your second question. I think the data you are receiving right now is much more interesting than an interpretation or comments on my part. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u23	Mr. Chairman, I do not have the speed of execution or the minister's intellectual abilities. I am only a modest Member of Parliament, representative of the people. Thank you for these documents, which are certainly complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u24	I remain at your disposal for further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u25	I thought you'd say that. Thank you for the numbers. I'll get to know about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u26	Mr President, Minister, in 2014, human rights training was put in place for all police aspirants. Thus, as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights celebrates its 70th anniversary, more than 8,200 members of the federal police have been trained. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police insists that, in any situation, police officers must pay attention to human rights. Nevertheless, situations remain problematic. For the Commissioner-General, the most thorny problem is a violation of privacy, but we can also mention the issue of ethnic profiling, whether real or supposed, as Amnesty International has already pointed out, for example. Minister, can you explain how this human rights training is taking place? In the long run, could all police officers benefit, including those who have been on duty for several years? What measures are actually being taken to combat ethnic profiling? I asked your predecessor about this a few months ago, but what is your own position? Is this a subject you intend to look at, despite the short time that remains before us? Finally, what benchmarks and guidelines are provided to ensure the necessary balance between privacy and the need for information in investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Ben Hamou, the training in question includes some theoretical reminders, but it is essentially practice-oriented. After a visit to the Dossin barracks, participants took part in a workshop on human rights, the main aim of which was to identify mechanisms that led to harassment, exclusion, discrimination and genocide. Strategies to respond as effectively as possible are then discussed. This training day is also offered to all police officers, regardless of their length of service. My hope is that the greatest number of them will be able to benefit from it. The use of ethnic profiling to detect suspicious behaviour clearly cannot, in my view, exist and it is not applied. What can happen, on the other hand, is behavioral detection (behavioural detection). With regard to the fight against ethnic profiling, the Federal Police will meet regularly with Amnesty International through the Integrity Service, with local police areas also involved through the Local Police Standing Committee (CPPL). For your last question, privacy is intrinsically linked to the execution of all police missions, both administrative and judicial. It follows from a general rule of law. Therefore, police personnel are bound by law and by the code of ethics to protect this right in the performance of their duties. In the present case, a police officer may violate the privacy of a citizen only if there is a legal provision or, if necessary, by order of a magistrate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are announcing a local and federal police meeting with Amnesty International very soon. Do you have a date? Have they already agreed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u29	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u30	Is this a working group that will be set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u31	It's going to be set up, but I don't have any specific information about a first meeting. In any case, I will inquire and forward the information to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u32	Do you think it is possible to make this training mandatory for police officers who have been on duty for several years, and not just for aspirants-inspectors? Can we think about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u33	That's a good suggestion. I will think about it and, of course, discuss it with the staff representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 28416 by Mrs Lambrecht President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u36	Minister, the government rightly calls for a great deal of commitment from the police in extremely difficult and complex situations. In spite of the social consequences for their families and the negative effects on the health and well-being of police personnel in general, police staff are always loyal to their duties. On the other hand, the approach to violence against the police sometimes leaves something to be desired; impunity remains. In addition, police personnel have had little benefit in recent years: the retirement age increased, fundamental changes in the betting scales remained out and the sick days were abolished. The erosion of the status, in addition to the problems of training, means that fewer and fewer people are engaged in the police service and these shortages create additional burdens, which further jeopardise the attractiveness of the job. What steps will you take to make the police office more attractive again? How will you deal with violence against the police better?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u37	Making the police office more attractive is a large part of my work in the short period of ongoing cases. It is also my ambition to implement the sectoral agreement that was concluded in 2018. The objective of the sectoral agreement is to simplify and modernise the status of police officers. According to the agreement, this translates into the abolition of 19 functional allowances and allowances for new police personnel. Certain betting scales improve and are aligned with public office. As from November 2022, each staff member shall receive a meal check of 6 euros per day. Work is currently under way to optimize the selection and recruitment process. In future, new recruits will be led more quickly and directly to their final place of employment. Recruitment campaigns are also being reviewed and addressed in a different and more modern way. The campaigns will be more target-oriented and more interactive. Within the framework of welfare policy, a new approach has been laid down by the federal police in the global prevention plan, which was approved by the syndicated organisations. On your second question, I want to be clear. Violence against police officers has been, and remains, absolutely unacceptable across the board. I will therefore make no concessions whatsoever and have already made a clear statement on this matter. It is therefore my intention to reach the royal decision. That Royal Decree provides for increased reimbursement for police officers in the event of accidents at work. There are also many actions in the field of prevention. In collaboration with the prevention advisers of the Directorate for Prevention and Protection at Work, various risk analyses of the police missions are carried out. This results in a formal opinion from the prevention consultant, which is submitted to the negotiating committee. In October 2018 there was also an online survey with the federal police about violence and aggression. About 3 800 staff took part. The results were analysed and presented to the Management Committee of the Federal Police. In addition, there is a great deal of attention being paid to the ongoing training of police officers in the fight against violence, in which communicative and psychosocial skills also play a particularly important role. There is also a website, violence against police staff members, who, in a very accessible way, inform staff who become victims of aggression, about the offer of assistance and the steps to be taken in the area of administration. There have been numerous legislative initiatives, such as the use of dashcams and bodycams, which can act as a deterrent and prevent violence against police. In addition, there is the extension of free legal assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I am pleased that you mention a policy for the well-being of the police, with the implementation of the sectoral agreement and the simplification of the statute, a major part of your work for the remaining short period of this legislature. A second point concerns selection and recruitment. The points on the subject have been raised several times in our committee. I hope with you that we can simplify this, that you can shorten the time between recruitment and selection for the police school, so that the training can be started more quickly, without reducing the quality of the training and the selection. Let us be clear: we want the quality of the police to be preserved. That is actually an answer to my second question. You provide a lot of measures for the training, supervision and protection of police officers on the ground. If your proposals are good and they are indeed helping the police on the ground, I will certainly support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u39	Minister, an article published in the weekly Trends of January 11th echoes two recent studies demonstrating that the use of drugs, drugs and alcohol is an important reality in the business world in general. As with burn-out, the boundary between private and professional can be very blurred. The causes of this consumption are multiple and problem solving is often ad hoc. Interviewed in this article, Marie-Gabrielle Kerger, responsible for alcohol prevention and management, tobacco, other drugs in the workplace at the ASBL Le Pélican states that "the consumption of all these products is on the rise" and "observes, clearly, an increase in consumption due to working conditions." According to the experts consulted, stress is a major factor in the development of addictions. Some professionals use benzodiazepines to cope with certain aspects of their profession: stress, fatigue, difficult to manage responsibilities, etc. In conclusion, the Trend reporter wonders whether, to see the different numbers and the testimonies of each other, more and more people are taking time to go to work. Doping here means not in the sporting sense of the term as a performance accelerator but as a means of simply being at its level. Mr Minister, on this point, I would like you to take stock of the situation in the police services with regard to the prevention of alcohol, drug and drug abuse. In fact, another article, published in the newspapers of the South Press Group on 18 January, mentions the fact that, in recent years, the average rate of absenteeism within the integrated police force has been increasing. " With an average absenteeism rate slightly above 8% in 2018, the integrated police beat all negative records in this regard. By comparison, the absenteeism rate is 6% for all civil servants. Violence, overwork, high psychosocial burden, understaffing: the problem has been recurring in recent years and is slowly growing, even though the federal police seem to have finally understood the urgency of the situation, according to several of our sources. But it still needs to be followed by effects." I don't know if we were able to observe and objectiveize a link between absenteeism, assumptions and well-being at work. Excessive consumption of alcohol, drugs and medicines affects the well-being of workers and is therefore part of a well-being policy in a company. As such, the National Labour Council's Collective Labour Convention (CLC) No. 100 lays the foundation for a preventive policy on alcohol and drugs in enterprises. It is based on four pillars: training and information, regulation, procedures and assistance. The CTC calls for a comprehensive workplace-specific policy with several dimensions: prevention and management, accountability for all, help and well-being at work. Although CTC No. 100 is valid only for the private sector, the public sector can also draw on it when developing its prevention policy. I therefore assume that this must be the case for the police zones and the federal police. Minister, is there an insurance prevention plan within the federal police as part of the work well-being policy? If that is the case, what are your results in terms of improving the health and well-being of our police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u40	Dear colleague Frédéric, the collective labour agreement (CCT) No 100 for companies is not applicable to the federal police. Nevertheless, its alcohol policy is part of the broader welfare policy, which is why it places the same emphasis on prevention as on CTC No. 100. Well-being legislation includes alcohol and medication drugs in occupational health examination and in the approach to psychosocial risks. This integrated alcohol-drug policy is based on four pillars. The first concerns the rules for all employees concerning the use of alcohol and drugs, including the prohibition of consumption during the performance of their duties, before or during the service. Abuse is excluded. Staff members on duty with obvious signs of alcohol intoxication undergo a breath test in accordance with the legal provisions. With regard to drugs, I refer to point 44 of the Code of Ethics of the Police Service, which states that, except in the case of medical prescriptions, staff members shall prohibit the use of soporific, narcotic, hallucinogenic or psychotropic products during the service. If they show signs of drug use in service, they undergo a detection test in accordance with the relevant legal provisions. The second pillar concerns procedures for the resolution of operational problems. The third relates to internal aid assistance, e.g. the establishment of an alcohol contract for persons with insurance. It is a procedure during which the authority, in consultation with the staff member concerned, sets up guidance and support to deal with the alcohol problem in the professional context. The fourth pillar concerns information and training. The internal prevention service disseminates various fact sheets to each staff member regarding safety incidents or various health-related aspects. This integrated policy is a means of preventing or at least preventing aggravation of work-related problems resulting from the use of alcohol or drugs. The policy referred to above aims to avoid or prevent possible problems and to deal with them through the hierarchical line with the help of internal partners. In conclusion, if this proves necessary, the occupational doctor will follow the employee concerned more frequently than during compulsory consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u41	Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and reassuring response, since care is guaranteed both in terms of prevention and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u42	Question No 28445 by Mrs Temmerman is postponed. Question No 28517 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u43	Minister, you know that public transit companies have for many years equipped their infrastructure and vehicles with video surveillance systems. For example, in Brussels, STIB installed about 3,500 cameras in its installations and more than 6,000 in its vehicles. In recent years, progress has been made in cooperation between the security services of public transport companies and the police services. Considering the importance of the most structured collaboration possible to ensure rapid and efficient police interventions in transport networks, could you please tell me what the procedures and equipment put in place for the on-line accessibility of images of De Lijn's video protection networks, STIB, TECs and SNCB for local and federal police services? Indeed, according to the latest information at my disposal, this connection and accessibility within police areas would still not be effective. If that were indeed the case, that would be unacceptable. Finally, could you tell me the number of interventions carried out in 2017 and 2018 by the railway police services, by Region of the country, as well as the capacity of the men who make up this Directorate? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u44	Mr. Pivin, public transit companies, SNCB, De Lijn, STIB and TECs use independent surveillance cameras or connected to their own network of cameras, which are then connected to their own video platform. Local and federal police forces may wish to have access to these images, either directly in real time or to the recording, storage. With SNCB, a procedure has been introduced for the integrated police to be able to view the images stored in accordance with the legal and regulatory framework. A similar procedure exists with STIB for the benefit of the railway police, the SPC and the Brussels police areas. Part of the images of SNCB and STIB, the underground network, is also available in real time for the SPC (railway police). The images of the TECs and De Lijn are not yet accessible in real time to the police services. A VMS (video management system) video platform has been installed within the federal police with a video network consisting of provincial video nodes located in CIC centres. It is mainly used to distribute images of federal police helicopters at present. We are currently studying the possibility of extending this technical solution, in particular to the need for real-time consultation of the images of public transport companies. In addition, the extent to which images could be made available on mobile devices such as smartphones, laptops or tablets in accordance with security or confidentiality standards is also being examined. As for your last question, I propose that you introduce it in writing, given the quantitative nature of the figures requested. I'll get back to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u45	Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u46	Mr Minister, I already asked the question on 15 January 2019 about the issue of identity checks, in which the data were transmitted by the police on the ground via WhatsApp. You replied that the use of WhatsApp is not an official guideline and that WhatsApp is not an approved channel for the exchange of police information. You also mentioned that you had no information about the specific incident to which I referred and that therefore you could not reply in detail. I have asked and heard that the identity check took place on Sunday 16 December 2018 at 16.22 hours following the demonstration for the Migration Pact. The audit took place at the Europaplein in Brussels. I also mentioned the officer's service number. After all, that has been noted. I won't read it to you, but you have the service number. I therefore have the following questions about the incident. Firstly, can you confirm that the control in question was indeed carried out via WhatsApp? Secondly, who decided that the conscious control would go through WhatsApp? Was it an instruction from a superior or supervisor or, on the other hand, was it a personal initiative? What measures will you take to prevent such control in the future? Thirdly, how was the information obtained during the audit processed? What guarantees are there that she was not allowed to spread beyond the limits? Was the process done with a personal device or with a service device? Who was a member of the WhatsApp group? On what basis was that decided? Fourthly, have any checks been handled at the police department in question via WhatsApp? Fifthly, would you like to check whether the use of WhatsApp has been widespread, as it has been mentioned several times already? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u47	Mr Van Hecke, I can tell you from information recently obtained from the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police area that whatsApp was used for the purpose of communicating data in an identity check. According to my services, this was done in accordance with an internal directive of the Brussels-Capital police area, which I will have examined further. After all, the management of the Federal Police Police Police Police (DRI) does not regard WhatsApp as a formal channel for police communication. The DRI made available to all police areas, including the Brussels-Capital-Elsene police zone, the application of Skype for Business for such privacy sensitive communications. It is part of the application Office 365 for the integrated police, which meets the security requirements. In the near future, this type of operational survey will be carried out directly through the Fokus ICT platform. Fokus will allow police officers on the premises to have direct access to the necessary databases through a secure application. For example, communication will no longer be required via an intermediate dispatching unit, either via WhatsApp or via Skype for Business. Given the use of a means of communication that deviates from the generally applicable directive of the DRI to use the formal channel, I will have it examined for its legality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u48	You were also very clear on the guidelines given last time. Apparently, they have deviated from that. I would also have specifically asked what guarantees exist that the information obtained on the ground is not disseminated beyond what is allowed when it is checked and processed? Who was all part of that WhatsApp group? Apparently, you didn't get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u49	I refer to the last paragraph of my replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u50	That must have gotten away from me. I'll read it in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament 28545 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u52	Mr Minister, the Belgian counter-terrorism unit, DR3, is currently experiencing a sharp wave of departures. According to various sources, management problems are the cause of this situation. Out of a total of nearly 160 personnel, some 20 persons reportedly announced their departure. Several cases of burn out would also be reported. As we know, many people convicted of radicalization-related offences are or will be released in the coming months. The work of the counter-terrorism unit is therefore, more than ever, crucial. This situation therefore raises questions. What can you tell us about this information? Do you confirm this wave of departures? If so, do you have any specific figures to give us? What consequences have already been observed on the day-to-day work of the unit? Are short-term solutions possible to carry out missions? In substance, what do you think are the causes of this situation and what structural solutions could be implemented? Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u53	Very briefly, Minister, we have also learned from the press about the departures from the police counter-terrorism unit, three departures in this case. This is a worrying phenomenon, for the reasons that my colleague Flahaux has just mentioned. I wish you would have explained to us what, in your opinion, motivates these important departures? What is the status of the workforce in this essential unit? What measures are being taken to remedy this situation and to ensure the proper functioning of the service? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u54	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is reductive to mention management as a possible cause of the development of the DR3 workforce within the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels. However, departures are actually recorded, but the latter are explicable. It should be noted that out of a total of 167 members, DR3 currently has 153 people, including 143 police officers and 10 administrative staff, the so-called CALOG. This deficit is not more significant than in other federal police services. But it is mainly due, on the one hand, to the stages of a career within the police services, i.e. ordinary mobility, retirements, promotions by way of higher rank and, on the other hand, to the continuous evolution of the investigative work, the complexity of the procedures, the specificity of the phenomenon of terrorism, and, probably, to the significant emotional pressure that this latter phenomenon can generate on front-line investigators. For the latter, it is necessary to take a good look at the extremely sensitive missions carried out by the service concerned, and as a corollary the small number of police officers with the profile required to be part of it. Mr Gabriels, it is not the issue now, but in relation to the confirmed redundancies, I can answer that there are. There is also a need for nuances, as some of these redundancies have already been confirmed, but others relate to mobility applications or applications for facilities submitted by the members of this research department. It is a very specialized service whose staff have a very high potential for development, certainly in the acute phase of the phenomenon as we knew it between 2014 and 2017. This approach was based on talent spotting. This led to the recruitment of some 50 additional police officers with a very high level of expertise. The Directorate of DR3, supported by the Director of the Judicial Police in Brussels, is now evaluating all other possibilities in order to maintain the required level of productivity and quality. Here's an instant, live translation. I added the answers to Ms. Gabriëls' questions, because I thought you might be interested.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u55	I would like to thank Minister De Crem very much, who has made us a live translation through elegance and, above all, reassured us of the substance because indeed, the importance of this counter-terrorism unit is greater than ever. Currently, there is this controversy about the return of children, but also of mothers. So this problem is just as important today as it was a few years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u56	Minister, you said in your answer that it was not useful to refer to management to explain the problem. I don't think Mr. Flahaux or myself did. I suppose that was in Mrs Gabriëls' question. We didn't make any assumptions ourselves, because we're here to try to check your analysis. You tell us that the capacity deficit is similar to other services. I can hear it, but it doesn't reassure me. You explain that these counter-terrorism officers must have a sharp profile; I understand that. You say that all this is being studied to try to optimize the functioning of the service. We will be extremely attentive to that. Together with Mr Pivin and other colleagues, we have sat on the Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks and we know how difficult these missions are to carry out. Indeed, it is necessary to invest in training, in staff with high potential to act against those people who want us to do a lot of harm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u57	Mr President, I would like to apologise to the minister, because I am going to ask my question, but I will not be able to hear the answer because I am expected in committee where they will vote. Minister, ten local police areas will soon be participating in a pilot project on the use of tasers. These electronic pistols that temporarily paralyze a target should only be used in self-defence and should allow police officers to reduce the use of their firearms and thus reduce the risk of injury. But there are still concerns. The legal framework is still unclear on the use of tasers. For example, if a trained police officer is injured on a mission, will one of these untrained colleagues be able to use the taser? Amesty International also estimated that between 2001 and 2008, in the United States, 50 deaths were directly attributable to tasers. It is a real weapon that should not be used lightly. Finally, the belt worn by the police officer already weighs an average of 12 kg. Adding a taser could pose a practical problem for the movement of police officers, or even lead to injuries. Minister, what are the real benefits of tasers? Are they more effective than truncheons and pepper sprays. How do you plan to organize Taser Police Training? Will all police officers benefit from this? If the pilot project is convincing, do you intend to stop using truncheons and pepper sprays to lighten the police belt? Have you clearly assessed the risks that taser use can pose to targets?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u58	Minister, the use of taser is currently being tested in a few police areas. This has advantages for the police. I had already had the opportunity to question your predecessor about the legal framework in response to the concerns expressed by the unions last year in the context of the legal protection of taser-based police officers. It would appear that an initial interim evaluation was carried out and that it would be positive. Have you read a report from the Standing Committee on Local Police on this interim evaluation? What are the first conclusions and findings in this report? How many tasers are currently used in pilot police areas? How many times have these tasers been used in police operations? Is there any specific legal regulation for the use of taser in force and, if not, is it necessary to ensure the protection of police officers during this test phase?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u59	Colleagues, this is indeed an interim report of the Standing Committee on Local Police. It is currently being analysed by my services. The final evaluation will be submitted to me at the end of May 2019. This is the number of electrically pulsed pistols acquired by the area by the local police area concerned. For Mons-Quévy: 2; La Boraine: 2; Châtelet-Aiseau-Presles: 2; Beloeil-Leuze: 1; Arlon: 4; Liège: 6; Gaume: 3; Antwerp: 8; Bruges: 2; Ostend: 2; Westkust: 2; Alost: 2; Limburg Regio Hoofdstad: 2; Turnhout: 2; CARMA: 2. To date, during this pilot phase, the electric pulse gun has been used four times. There are no specific regulations governing the use of taser. The legal framework governing the use of taser is the same as that applicable to the use of other non-fire or non-lethal weapons that make up the regulatory armament of the police services: striking weapons and incapacitating means, and is more generally concerned with the use of coercion. The above-mentioned legal framework provides sufficient framework for the use of taser, as also considered by the College of Public Prosecutors, whose opinion has been sought in the context of the pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u60	Minister, you say that the taser was used four times. Have you had any medical problems with these people?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u61	Frankly, right now, no! If one way or another, I can help you, I'll ask the question. No medical incidents were reported to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u62	Joined Questions No 28590 by Mrs Lambrecht and No 28651 by Mrs De Wit are postponed. Question No 28593 by Mrs Ben Hamou is also postponed. Questions Nos 28594 and 28596, Mrs Gabriëls' 28597, 28598, 28599, 28603 and 28604 were transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u63	Minister, as part of the recruitment of volunteer firefighters in a rescue zone, a supra-local call must be made. Persons who have obtained the FCA, the federal certificate of fitness, can apply for it regardless of their place of residence and thus continue their training and career. They will have to start training a B01 firefighter for the purpose of obtaining a patent. This training spans 264 hours and consists of several modules, with a varied mix of theory and practice. This compulsory training has a cost for the rescue zone of several thousand euros. The difficulty encountered by the area is that some firefighters who have been trained as firefighters may leave the area with a view to integrating another, closer to home, as soon as a call for applications is made. The area has therefore paid for the training of a future firefighter who, in the end, will work elsewhere. There is obviously a problem here. A common sense solution could be to create a form of compensatory training allowance paid by the area that recruited the firefighter to the area that trained him. Minister, do you share my reasoning? Do you find that a compensation system from the area that recruited the firefighter to the area that formed him should be put in place? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u64	Mr Delannois, it is legally possible for a firefighter who has obtained his B01 certificate in a rescue zone to perform his duties in another rescue zone. This can lead to some organizational difficulties in the emergency area that has sent a firefighter in training and which, in the end, cannot rely on the firefighter. In addition, there may be costs associated with the fact that the emergency zone is likely to have to organize a recruitment procedure to replace the party firefighter(s) in another rescue zone. It appears, however, that Francophone fire schools do not charge fees for registration in emergency areas. This is handled by the provinces. Therefore, there is no cost at this level for the emergency area. We also see a similar phenomenon among officer personnel. Large relief areas tend to recruit officers who have already undergone training in smaller relief areas. This also creates difficulties in the relief areas, which thus lose the trained and therefore operational officer staff. However, the establishment of a compensation system between relief zones requires legal adjustments that can only be made when a full-fledged government is in place. My concern is great about the problem that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u65	I doubt it because it also concerns responsibilities at the municipal level. At present, since the relief areas are also financed by the municipalities, we are systematically trying to find a whole range of ways to save money. I know the president is a football feud and here, it's kind of like the Bosman decision. At one point, when a football player received training from his club and left it, the new owner paid for the training. Adapting the same system would not, in my opinion, be a scandal. Everyone would find benefits there. Indeed, when the area of Picardy Wallonia opens up a training which attracts candidates from far away only to take this training, it seems to me that there is still a problem. But I understand very well that we currently have a government in day-to-day business and that a full-fledged government could take care of the problem, if common sense prevails.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u66	In the preparatory work, we should really try to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u67	Thank you very much. We're on the same page.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u68	Minister, on November 22, 2017, I asked your predecessor about the possibility of setting up a Franco-Belgian cooperation agreement for relief areas, in the management of recurring risk. As mentioned at that time, France and Belgium, like other countries, have concluded bilateral agreements with the aim of organising cross-border cooperation in various fields. As regards cooperation in the context of civil security, conventions are limited to mutual assistance in the event of a disaster or a serious accident. These agreements are therefore not valid for the management of recurring risk and day-to-day interventions. At the Franco-Belgian border, certain geographical areas are closer to a fire brigade located on the other side of the national border than to the barracks closest to the country of the geographical area concerned. However, the closest firefighters cannot intervene without a cooperation agreement. Article 22 of the Belgian Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 allows rescue zones to conclude cross-border cooperation agreements to carry out their tasks more effectively. This type of cooperation agreement could therefore be concluded for the management of recurring risk. Unfortunately, equivalent legal provisions do not exist in France. The Belgian rescue zones and the French departmental fire and rescue services (SDIS) are therefore, by legal vacuum, unable to conclude cooperation agreements for day-to-day collaboration. On the French side, a national framework agreement is required before fire departments can engage in cooperation with a Belgian rescue zone. Several steps have been taken so that this framework agreement can be established. Today, it seems that the situation is getting out of hand and that the case is progressing well. I would also like to know if your services have had any encouraging news from the French State. Can the framework agreement be signed soon? Do you have a calendar? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u69	My colleague, there is indeed an agreement in principle on the content of the draft administrative arrangement on assistance and relief in border areas between Belgium and France. However, on the French side, the project still needs to be validated by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs. The Office des accords internationales français nevertheless continues to follow the file. We agreed to provide for the signature on 7 March, on the sidelines of the Justice and Home Affairs Council. I have already spoken to my colleague Jean-Yves Le Drian.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u70	Minister, this is excellent news, of course. 7 March will be a good day in the collaboration between France and Belgium. As we have already signed cooperation agreements, the Tournai agreements, on security matters, I propose that you come to the City Hall of Tournai for a little ratification, where you will be my guest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u71	I will willingly do so; this will not be the first time I have come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u72	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u73	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Kir 28787 and Mr 28788 were converted into written questions. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Ben Hamou's 28794, 28795, 28796 and 28797 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u74	Minister, through the press, we learned that two weeks after the death of little Mawda, on May 31, 2018, the police officers involved in the chase took part in an operational debriefing of the "incident" on Thursday, May 17, 2018. With the exception of the perpetrator, several of the participants are witnesses or even suspects in the course of an ongoing judicial investigation. According to lawyer Alexis Deswaef, such an assembly of police officers concerned (if only as witnesses) by an ongoing investigation could constitute an offence of "coalition of officials". Irrespective of the functional requirements for evaluating the intervention that can be understood, this meeting raises questions about a possible willingness to construct a collective testimony, a common version of the course of events. According to counsel, the damage to the investigation is even greater with respect to police officers who allegedly participated in this type of caucus before they even testified before the P Committee and/or the investigating magistrate. We can still suspect that they were influenced by what they heard. How can we know if they have not learned new things that may have changed their perception of the facts? How can we not wonder if they have not felt pressure that could modulate their testimony? In fact, you will notice that the courts sometimes place a person in pre-trial detention to prevent him or her from having contact with third parties or witnesses. Minister, do you confirm the existence of this document referring to the debriefing of the police officers who participated in the pursuit race? Is it referred to as "restricted broadcasting"? How many stakeholders have been provided with this document? What were the functions of these stakeholders and why were they provided with them? Has this document been transmitted to the judicial authorities? Is it possible, in your opinion, for such a meeting to be an offence of a coalition of civil servants?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u75	Mrs Waterschoot, the document does exist and it does bear the word "restricted broadcasting". Shortly after the events, an operational debriefing was organized with the entities concerned, with debriefing being a routine procedure when the police used force. The objective of these internal evaluations is to examine the extent to which procedures need to be adapted and, at the very least, to what extent the risks associated with them can be reduced. The term "restricted distribution" shall be applied to documents containing sensitive data and information which may be transmitted only to the addressees referred to therein. This included the Director General of the Federal Police Administrative Police - on which the Federal Road Police Directorate and the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations are responsible - the Directors of the Federal Police and the Chiefs of the Local Police Areas involved in the events, whose staff were present during the operational debriefing, as well as the Chiefs of Service WPR (Federal Road Police). The judicial directors of the Federal Judicial Police in Namur and Mons were also among the addressees of this document, which was forwarded to Committee P and the investigating judge in charge of the case. The Minister of Justice is responsible for verifying whether this document has been communicated to the judicial authorities. Under the fundamental principle of separation of powers, it is not for me, as a member of the executive branch, to rule on the possible criminalization of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u76	Mr President, the investigations of Committee P and Justice deal with the different aspects of this tragic incident. You will agree with me that any risk of interference with the ongoing proceedings must be ruled out, so that justice can be done to this child and his or her family. I understand the imperatives of drawing lessons from such an event, but I would like to draw your attention to the need to review, in the light of the case law of the European Court of Justice, the widespread practice of collective debriefings following interventions. I also quote Mr Deswaef: "In addition, the European Court of Human Rights has a very clear case law on the need to prevent police from agreeing on a version of the facts following a shooting incident". This is the case here! Therefore, I invite you to reflect on the appropriateness of such practices when legal proceedings are under way. Since I am not a lawyer, I am not in a position to comment on the nature of a coalition of public servants, but the mere fact that this threat weighs on the investigation is not such as to reassure us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1039x.u77	Pursuant to Rule 127, 10th of the Rules of Procedure, Question No 1 will be answered in writing. 28779 by Mrs Jiroflée, who has not informed us, withdrawn.
