ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u1	Mr. President, Minister, a cybersecurity site recently revealed that at least 2,000 Adecco employees have been affected by a security flaw. More specifically, their fingerprints would have been made available on the Internet. Minister, if proven, this worrying situation raises a number of questions. What justifies an employer's taking and keeping the fingerprints of its workers, a personal data considered sensitive by the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)? Could workers freely refuse to hand over their fingerprints? Have the persons concerned been informed of this security flaw? Has the Data Protection Authority been informed, in accordance with the GDPR, of this data leak? If so, what action has been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u2	Mr Aouasti, thank you for this question. Fingerprints are considered sensitive data. They make it possible to identify an individual in a unique way. You have to be very aware of the reasons why they are used. The GDPR prohibits their treatment unless the person concerned has explicitly consented to it or if a law or a collective labour agreement (CTC) authorizes it. It is at this collective level that this negotiation takes place. I answer your question on free consent: it is already provided for in the CTC. It is also for the Data Protection Authority (PAD), in charge of the control of the GDPR, to judge whether the consent of employees has been validly given or, failing that, whether another legal basis allows the processing of such data. The processing of biometric data also requires a prior impact assessment. If the analysis concludes that there are high risks to processing, the controller should consult the Data Protection Authority, which will examine the need for processing. Of course, it is important to assess proportionality. The Data Protection Authority considers that it is excessive for the employer to use biometric data to record the arrival and departure times of employees. On the other hand, it allows access to certain sensitive sites (military complexes, nuclear sites, certain laboratories) to be secured. With regard specifically to the security flaw at Adecco, the APD informs us that Adecco notified him of the data leak by mail of 19 August and that it contacted the company in order to obtain further information. In the case of the surplus, ODA recalls that, under article 24 of the Act establishing the Data Protection Authority, it is bound by an obligation of confidentiality for investigations still under way, as is the case here. On the question of whether the persons concerned had been informed of the security gap, ODA, which was the only competent authority to investigate the issue, had not provided a response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u3	Minister, thank you for the answers that have been given to me. I understand that an investigation is under way at the level of the Data Protection Authority. I hope it will close quickly. Do you already have an indicative date for the possible closure of the investigation? An element does not appear clearly in your answer. This is the question of the free consent of employees or not. You have told me that there is a collective agreement that formalizes the manner in which this consent is to be given. You know as I do that the fact that a CTC exists does not mean that it has been respected. A fortiori, if it is a generality. Indeed, it would appear that all employees of this Adecco site were affected by this data leak. This would mean that a general, not individualized, application per employee was formalized to obtain their data and fingerprints. I am not going to anticipate the ODA survey, but in my view there is a significant source of concern. This will have to be lifted in the final ODA report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, the subject of my question is similar to that of the previous one: it is the same problem related to fingerprints, but in a more problematic context, namely the demand for children's fingerprints. The press echoed an initiative taken at the Sint-Bavo school in Ghent. Indeed, it is with some pride that the school's management – under the guise of technological advances, I assume – announced that it would test in October "the payment of sandwiches with biometric data". In this case, the fingerprints of all students will be digitized in the coming weeks. To be reassuring, management assures that parents have been "warned by e-mail", that "confidentiality is assured and that this will be done in accordance with the GDPR" and that "if there are objections, an alternative will be proposed". These simple statements are already problematic if they prove to be valid. Indeed, the processing of biometric data is not insignificant. You indicated this in your advance response, as the GDPR itself recognizes in section 9. This Article requires, in particular, an explicit and individual agreement on the part of each person concerned. In other words, prior information is not sufficient and the absence of a response to an e-mail cannot be considered consent. In addition, an alternative must be proposed ex officio and not only in the event of a claim. Apart from these principles, the question also arises of the holder of the consent: does the school consider that the consent of the parents alone is sufficient? What in the case of a minority of children? What, in the case of an age of discernment, is a student's refusal contrary to the consent of the parents? Many questions arise here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u5	Mr President, Mr Aouasti, I refer to my previous answer. I described the legal framework in relation to the GDPR and the role of the Data Protection Authority (DPA) – formerly the Privacy Commission. The Commission has already expressed doubts about the need to collect biometric data in schools. It stated that it is only when the particular situation of the institution justifies a high-level check that the measure can be considered proportional. This indicates that there are serious doubts about this request. At the same time, ODA must decide if it is to intervene. ODA is an independent authority. As a result, it takes the initiative to conduct investigations and deliver opinions. It depends on Parliament; there is probably work that parliamentarians can do to determine whether ODA provides sufficient information to schools on certain aspects such as how to manage biometric data. A few months ago, the Privacy Commission expressed itself very clearly by recalling the need to examine very specific cases in order to verify whether, in terms of consent, the processing of data was in conformity with the GDPR.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I read between the lines, I understand that you are totally opposed to this practice which is applied at Sint-Bavo School in Ghent, because it does not meet the criteria that had been defined by the Data Protection Authority – that is, the need for high security. I'm glad. However, I am somewhat hungry because I had to read between the lines. Indeed, I do not understand in your reply that contact with the school would have been initiated either by you or by the Data Protection Authority. However, we are here in an irregularity framework – I will not go so far as to say: illegality. In my view, you have a right of injunction so that ODA can take such an initiative and clearly notify the school that its attitude is inappropriate. I'm not saying she can issue injunctions, because she's not the organizing power. In any case, she could send an official mail to remind the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u7	I receive a lot of such questions, but I recall that ODA is totally independent – it is enshrined in its statutes. So, she's not taking instructions from anyone. On the other hand, parents or even parents of pupils can lodge complaints. At that time, it was obliged to pursue and verify whether any problems existed. That's how it works. I understand that it is sometimes difficult to understand the role of a privacy minister on the one hand, and ODA on the other. It is the latter who exercises the skills and takes charge of the file, but without any instructions being given to it. As I explained, certain rules must be respected. If parents or students think there is a problem, they can always complain to ODA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u8	Mr President, I am taking the floor on this third question and I would also like to address a mini-replock to the Minister. All these elements are doubled by the following fact. With regard to the other elements, one has the right to wonder whether the use, collection and retention of fingerprints is reasonable. Today's debate leaves many issues open. Of course, the use of biometric data could provide administrative comfort. However, one cannot help seeing a disproportion between the objective of selling sandwiches and the invasion of the privacy of minors, as well as a lack of necessity. Because once the children have given their fingerprints, they lose control of them for life in case of a problem. They are not immune from a leak of their data that could be collected by everyone and anyone without their knowledge. Unlike a phone number or e-mail address, a fingerprint cannot be replaced. Questions were also raised about the presence of a third party who would make such a service available. It is difficult to imagine that a school alone has developed a system of reading and collecting fingerprints. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Has the attention of the Data Protection Authority been drawn to this issue? Management's statements, as taken up by the press, raise concerns in particular with regard to obtaining explicit consent and the absence of an alternative proposed ex officio. Moreover, who should give such consent? Parents only? What if the minor of age is refused? Given that these are minors and biometric data, should the Data Protection Authority not ensure the role played by a third party in the provision of this service, the place and security measures surrounding the retention of data and the proper information of the persons concerned of their rights, including revocation? Returning to your answer, Minister, you were talking about the independence of the Data Protection Authority. Everyone respects it here in this Parliament. But like other administrations, such as the Federal Ombudsman or the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, who enjoy legal independence, it is not impossible for Parliament or the Executive to notify - I am not saying to issue an injunction - or to send a report and on this basis it is possible to self-apply. It is largely insufficient to allow parents to seize the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u9	Dear colleague, thank you for these questions. Again, there is the GDPR framework whose rules are clear with respect to the principle of consent and how to give it. Several elements of your question are correct and aligned with the GDPR. I have repeatedly argued for ODA to play an information role and describe a framework for the use of biometric data. It's a request. Technology is evolving very quickly. For that reason, within ODA, it was not just the appointment of the five directors and the creation of the various units. A working group was also set up on new technologies. The aim is to advance technological developments, but also to target information to schools or other sectors and not just about biometric data. ODA must play a greater role in that regard. In the past, within the Privacy Commission, I have indicated that the primary role of ODA is to inform, create frameworks and clarify the grey areas that remain around the GDPR. We clearly agree on this point. I am often contacted by school organizations or various sectors that are not certain of what is permitted or not allowed. Reference should always be made to ODA because the GDPR clearly designates it to create these frameworks. Proportionality is one of the key elements for biometric data. These data are very sensitive. It is therefore necessary to respect and guarantee maximum security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. ODA does have many roles to play, including the role of informing. This role is necessary in view of the leak at Adecco, which could occur in other operators, but also because of certain initiatives, much more problematic. As you pointed out in your first response, ODA also plays an investigative role. It must assume this function when it considers that a data leak has taken place. In the case of minors, if such a case occurs, it is very problematic. In any case, I hope that ODA will come into contact with the various organizing powers of each Community, in order to draw up a memorandum with them and to recall the rules on the protection of the data of minors attending our schools. Similarly, I hope that a suspension has been decided within the institution in question and that consideration will be given to the system that has been put in place for the benefit of the children attending it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u11	Mr Aouasti, in Flanders, there is a protocol between ODA and the organizing authorities. Second, in transposing part of the GDPR, we indicated that at the age of thirteen, children could decide for themselves. So if they refuse to give their consent, the choice is theirs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for that additional answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u13	Minister, pursuant to Article 4(1) of the GDPR, personal data may be defined as "any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person". While our group welcomes the establishment of a clear, comprehensive and predictable legal framework for data processing, we question the growth of the free movement and sale of such data. As soon as a person gives his or her explicit, informed consent and agrees to share his or her data with a specific company, the data may be transmitted to third parties (natural or legal persons). Age, sex, as well as morphological, biometric, consumer habits, research or the number of web pages visited can be sold to several businesses for commercial purposes, allowing them to create targeted ads that encourage consumption. We can see that right now on social networks. According to the European Commission, the European data market could amount to €739 billion in 2020, or 4% of European GDP. Last May, Regulation 2018/1807 establishing a framework for the free flow of non-personal data in the European Union entered into force. As indicated, it only deals with the trade and sale of non-personal data. The trade in personal data is not yet regulated, except indirectly by the GDPR. Mr Minister, in the absence of specific rules on the sale of personal data, could Belgium not be a forerunner by proposing appropriate legislation with regard to the collection, analysis and sale of such data?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u14	Dear colleague, the sale of personal data is already regulated by the GDPR. This regulation is there to protect data but also to regulate the free movement of data. The GDPR therefore has a dual purpose. In its first article, the GDPR states that "the free movement of personal data within the European Union is neither limited nor prohibited on grounds related to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data". This double aspect always plays. The collection, analysis and sale of personal data can therefore only be carried out under the conditions imposed by the GDPR. That is what I have already replied to your predecessor. It is the Data Protection Authority (PAD) that must monitor and create a framework, in consultation with its European colleagues. If grey areas remain, they must be clarified. This is the role of national or European ODA. However, it is clearly stated in the GDPR that a Member State cannot impose additional conditions for the circulation of data. This is one aspect that needs to be clarified with ODA. These elements are part of the discussions at European level. Indeed, many companies are asking if they can still use certain types of data and how to access certain types of data. Clarifying these things is part of the discussions in the working group at European level. But I have always said, as I have said to your predecessor, that there must be ODA everywhere at European level and not just in Belgium. We are working in a single internal market. These conditions and framework must exist as soon as possible, in order to provide more transparency to consumers, citizens and businesses and organisations. There are still some grey areas on which ODA, in my view, and in consultation with their European colleagues, must act to clarify matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u15	Mr Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. I understand that the European framework exists and that the authority has also been set up to enforce it. However, I have the impression that many businesses and many citizens have been taken a bit of a course by the coming into force of this GDPR. Many issues remain outstanding. Many citizens feel aggrieved when they are confronted with advertisements that target them very specifically. A big job has to be done. Can it be done within the framework of current ODA expertise? With respect to corporate awareness, the privacy platform may play a role. Citizens need to be informed about how best to protect themselves from these targeted advertisements. This is a rather bad experience for citizens and they do not feel that this protective framework regulating free movement exists. Free movement is still one of the founding principles of the European Union, however. I hear you are aware that this framework exists, but I still call on you to be vigilant. You or your successor should consider raising awareness among both businesses and consumers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u16	On this point, the minister probably does not know how to answer you. Minister, will you continue to answer questions next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u17	Mr. President, I'm here, I'm staying! Don't worry. There was a two-year transition period. During these two years, almost all organizations, the FEB, the Scouts, were consulted. We've met a lot of people to inform them. Now they know how to manage their own data. They are also much more sensitized if a company uses certain types of data for which clear consent has not been given. There is a need to continue raising awareness, but a considerable effort has already been made, notably by the Privacy Commission, to inform the widest possible audience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u18	I don't know if it's a scoop, but Mr. Minister will stay. I don't know if it's within the existing government or a future government, but it wants to stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u19	Ms. Maria Vindevoghel is not present for her question 55001504C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u20	Mr President, Minister, this question is somewhat in line with the previous questions, which actually means that we are concerned about these issues. I am new to Parliament, but I understand that there was already a great deal of discussion last year about the fingerprint on the identity card. I have heard that you were not very much in favour of this, but well, the initiative was adopted by vote. There was a lot of skepticism among privacy experts. Now I see that commercial companies are also taking the initiative to work with the fingerprint. Technological innovation is good in itself, but I feel that it is going too far now. In particular, the Data Protection Authority raises concerns about the storage of that data and wonders whether it can be managed safely. Minister, how are you looking at the evolution of using fingerprints in commercial organizations, for example to pay at the cash register? The Data Protection Authority is an independent institution. Can we speak to representatives of the Data Protection Authority in a hearing? In this way we can find out whether she has sufficient legal guarantees to prevent certain developments. Is the Data Protection Authority itself taking action or should a complaint be made first?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u21	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, I will begin with your last question. The Data Protection Authority has all the competences and also the means to launch an investigation itself. If problems are identified, the Data Protection Authority may decide that measures need to be taken. The Data Protection Authority can stop data processing at a minute and can also impose fines, for example. The Data Protection Authority therefore has a whole arsenal of means of control and control to check whether everything is going according to the law and the rules of art. By the way, just a few days ago, the Data Protection Authority explained its vision and annual plan in the Comparability Committee, asking for additional funds for additional recruitments. I hope that communication and information, the establishment of certain frameworks within which businesses and sectors can operate, will be the main focus rather than the wild punishment of possible minor infringements. At least that has always been the philosophy with which we have drawn up the tools of the Data Protection Authority. I have thus clarified the role of the Data Protection Authority, the possibilities it has and the possibilities we have given. Parliament's questioning, for example on the provision of information or on repressive action, can take place in the Committee on Compatibility. That is why I invite you to consult with your colleagues in order to deal with this in that committee. Secondly, of course, the technology does not stand still. I'm a big supporter of innovation. All new things are interesting and fun and make our lives a lot easier, but it has to be done with respect for privacy. There are always a number of aspects that need to be considered: for which it is used, whether it is proportionate, and whether there are no other measures that can perfectly have the same effect but which are much less privacy-intrusive. That is the kind of consideration that every company or organisation has to make all the time. Sometimes this is even required by law, because in some cases, when it comes to sensitive data, such as a fingerprint, a privacy impact assessment is also required. It is laid down by law that the exercise must be made before the decision can be taken effectively. Therefore, rules such as proportionality, security, where it is stored and used for must be clearly stated. We also need to look at alternatives. That's always been my philosophy. As I have said, I am a great supporter of new technology. We all use fingerprints, for example to unlock our phones, but the framework and the use and security of these data are so essential that the highest standards must always be considered. All these guarantees are described in the GDPR. Each organisation must comply and it is up to the GBA to verify that. In the specific case of Carrefour, it is with the express consent of each person that that data is collected. At the end of the test, they'll all be destroyed. This has been agreed and everything seems to be in line with the GDPR. Those guarantees, which Carrefour has also had to give, are about legitimate data processing, transparency, preservation and limitation of the purpose of their use. All these aspects must be constantly evaluated and monitored. Those are the things that are done by the GBA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u22	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your clear answer. I will continue to follow up on what the GBA is doing about this, because I am looking at it critically. I am absolutely not against technological innovation. It must ensure that we can make payments in a quick, convenient way. I am simply asking whether we really need our fingerprints for that. I'm looking at that very critically. I will continue to follow that up, and I will see how we can somehow conduct those talks with the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u23	Question No 55002163C by Mrs Katrien Houtmeyers is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u24	Minister, in his memorandum entitled Elections 2019, the Human Rights League had extracted a series of key recommendations from its recent work and reports: among other things, cybertransparency and control over the proliferation of personal databases. The day-to-day use of new technologies (video surveillance, remote readable electronic chips, geolocation, electronic traceability, interconnection of personal data files, etc.) offers a large number of opportunities but also gives rise to many difficulties with regard to fundamental rights. It is therefore essential that these technologies be subject to constant control and democratic debate. Their use should be guided by the consolidation of independent and sufficiently well-equipped structures responsible for ensuring respect for our privacy, in particular by strengthening the competence and financial and human resources of the Data Protection Authority. Minister, how do you respond to this recommendation on cybertransparency and control over the proliferation of personal databases? Have you taken any initiatives since then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u25	Mr President, there is no doubt that the development of new technologies is facing many challenges for our society, but also offers many opportunities, as you yourself have said. The application of different technologies is always a matter of balance. I am referring to the report put forward by the League. For example, public authorities are increasingly collecting population data in databases. It must be clearly defined where these data are located, who has access to them, who exercises control over them. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the European Police and Justice Privacy Directive have already been transposed into Belgian law by the Act of 30 July 2018. It clearly requires the identification of the purposes for which data are collected, who is responsible for the processing and who is entitled to the rights of citizens in relation to their data, such as the right to information and access and the right to be forgotten. There is already a general framework that applies all these general principles. The various data banks established within the framework of the public authorities are still in a legal framework. Before you can start collecting data, you must have the right to do so. It is once again ODA and the Council of State that are systematically consulted in the drafting of these bills. Parliament retains the democratic power to vote on these laws or not. The police also use new technologies and collect extensive data. It has an obligation to make a private impact assessment in all cases and to submit them for advice to the police oversight body. This also exists in Belgium. We tried, for example, to create a protocol between the social inspectorates (services of which I have jurisdiction) and the police, but we did not succeed because this body gave a negative opinion. We are currently under discussion to see how we can proceed while respecting the European regulation. I often receive questions about the human and financial resources of ODA, but it is ultimately Parliament that is competent to ask for increases in human or financial resources and to be able to monitor, on the ground, compliance with those rules. I said today or yesterday that the President has come before the Committee on Accounting to ask for an increase in the budget so that he can put his various duties into practice. Some elements have been mentioned and I believe that we have tried to implement a practice offering free movement of data and, moreover, a strong protection of the privacy of citizens' data in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u26	Your answer, Minister, shows that the situation is evolving; you have made it clear and I am reassured. But there is a lack of resources; it will be necessary to invest and propose a new plan to strengthen and support more everything that is happening at the level of all authorities. As you pointed out, everyone is busy collecting data, which must be allowed, but we must also secure the privacy of our citizens. I'll come back to you later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u27	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Boukili, having asked to put his question, which is on agenda item 14, first of all, I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u28	Madam President, I would like to thank you for the change you have made to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u29	Madam President, in general, it is the committee that decides the order of business and not the chair. Having said that, I accept that we proceed as you have decided. However, it would have been elegant to ask our opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u30	Colleagues, do you see any disadvantage in Mr Boukili's question now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u31	As far as I'm concerned, exceptionally, no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u32	Madam, thank you because I made this request because I have obligations elsewhere. But you still have time to refuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u33	I don't wish it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u35	I also agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u36	Madam President, Minister, on December 12, the prison staff conducted a 24-hour strike in all prisons across the country. The said staff denounces the bill passed on 14 March 2019 which provides for the establishment of a minimum service in the event of a strike, for two reasons. First, this law ignores the assumption that working conditions are extremely linked to conditions of detention. Secondly, this law seriously infringes their right to collective action, in particular their right to strike. However, to be able to carry out organized and non-violent action in public places is a fundamental trade union right that must be preserved. Tomorrow, you will meet with the unions and management regarding the preparation of plans to indicate how many staff members must be present in order to guarantee the minimum service. It is observed that the adoption of these plans can lead to Kafkaian situations. As an indication, the plan proposed by the Hoogstraten prison management imposes a percentage according to which, of all the agents, only one person may strike. And that is not to mention the prisons in which the directorates impose a percentage of 110 per cent. Minister, can you explain precisely how a plan could provide for more workers to be present in the workplace on a strike day than on a normal day? Will you stand in favour of the reasonable figures proposed by the unions, namely 23 per cent of the actual staff, in order to preserve the fundamental right of prison officers to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u37	Madam Chair, Mr. Boukili, the authority did not propose any plan that would provide for more workers than usual on a strike day. No prison department imposes a 110 per cent rate of staff. The plans submitted are reasonable and are now the subject of consultation with the unions, with the assistance of the social conciliator of the public service within the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. I hope to reach an agreement with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. The statements I repeated here, I didn't invent them. I've visited prisons. During a strike picket, I heard from trade unionists who informed me of the existence of quotas imposed for the minimum service, which are higher than the available staff – especially if the sick are taken into account. As a result, trade union action is thwarted. In any case, we are very far from what the unions are proposing, namely a rate of 23%. I expect you, Minister, at tomorrow's meeting, to be attentive to their demands, which I think are far more reasonable than what is being proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u39	Question No 55001982C by Mrs Özlem Özen is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u40	Madam President, Minister, Belgium has been regularly and for years been subject to convictions for the conditions of detention and the lack of care provided to inmates as a psychiatric annex to prisons. The European Court of Human Rights even issued a pilot judgment on this matter on 6 September 2016, on the basis of some 40 applications. The Act of 5 May 2014 on the internment of persons, as amended by the Act of 4 May 2016, reduced the situations in which interned persons may be imprisoned in a psychiatric annex. From now on, only the following four cases of incarceration in a psychiatric section are legal: in the context of an arrest warrant; after an internment decision, if the court ruling on the internment has ordered immediate imprisonment; after a provisional arrest in the context of a non-observance of a trial release, for a maximum of seven working days; in the context of a suspension of the probationary release by the social protection chamber, for a maximum of one month. However, it seems that the prosecution has not changed its practices and that some 60 people are currently detained in psychiatric annexes outside the legal framework I have just described. It comes to my mind that the Brussels Court of First Instance has already been brought four times, in interim proceedings, by internees and ordered their immediate transfer to the social defence institution designated by the Social Protection Chamber, or, failing that, their release. Minister, are you aware of this situation? Can you confirm the figure of about 60 people detained in psychiatric annexes outside the legal framework? What do you intend to do to put an end to these illegal detentions? More broadly, should the Belgian State not simply put an end to the incarceration of people with mental disorders? Should not the use of psychiatric annexes to prisons as possible places of detention be prohibited in view of the violations of the fundamental rights of such persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, when the Social Welfare Chamber revokes a release on trial, the Chamber shall determine in which institution it is appropriate to carry out the internment. This must be an institution referred to in section 3, 4°, (b), (c) or (d) of the Internment Act. Due to the lack of places and pending the execution of their judgement, some internees remain, in practice, temporarily incarcerated in the psychiatric section of the prison. Only about 60 internees are in this situation. This is quite problematic and the solution lies mainly in a wider range of places in health care facilities. I urge my colleague responsible for public health to persevere in her search for suitable places in the psychiatric circuit. I know she's doing everything she can. One judge considered that it was appropriate to revoke the release on trial and to place them in suitable secure infrastructure, based on the principle of the protection of society. Nor should we lose sight of the protection of the data subject himself or of the need to ensure therapeutic continuity. I will speak quickly with the College of Attorneys General to seek solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear you're making a commitment to finding solutions. Indeed, sixty people are always too much. So I hope that you will succeed in working with the Minister of Health to ensure continuity of care. The aim is to achieve a total absence of these people in prison. I think we're all convinced of this here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u43	Mr President, on my oral question No. 5001418C on shortcomings in the policy of sworn translators, sworn interpreters and legal experts replied that today a morality inquiry is requested only for persons who are registered after 29 June 2019. Anyone who has already been entered in the provisional register before 29 June 2019 would not be subject to that requirement for the time being, according to your reply. In addition, you claimed that Article 555/7 applies only to the definitive invitation to tender and not to the provisional invitation to tender of the parties concerned. They should therefore comply with all the conditions for final registration, including the morality investigation, by 1 December 2021 at the latest. However, practice shows that this interpretation is not always followed. For example, the Brussels Court of Appeal would see the morality inquiry as a necessary condition for the swearing-in. A large group of people is thus, due to lack of time, excluded. Firstly, is it true that the law is not applied in the same way everywhere? Secondly, can you confirm that the inquiry into morality is necessary for the swearing-in of the Brussels appeal court? What are the consequences for those whose oath cannot therefore take place? Thirdly, do there exist directives for the application of the law? If so, what do the directives say? If not, would you like to issue it and against when? Or maybe it just needs to be reminded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u44	Mr Van Hecke, Article 555/14 of the Legal Code provides that the candidates must take the oath in the hands of the first President of the Appeal Court of the jurisdiction of their place of residence or residence within three months of their entry into the Register. For persons in the transitional regime, it shall be entered in the provisional register within six months of its entry. In Brussels the parquet was asked to attend the oaths. The court-general of Brussels then decided to ask for a morality inquiry for each person for whom it had to claim the oath. As a result, on 4 December 2019, 18 people could not take the oath. In consultation with the National Registers Service, the First President of the Appeals Court and the Attorney General, it was agreed that the Public Prosecutor General would carry out all investigations of morality as a matter of priority so that those concerned would be given the opportunity to take their oath in December. A second and third session are scheduled for next Friday. An additional session will be organised at the beginning of January for persons who are prevented on the proposed days, for example through stays abroad or illness. For the current proceedings, Article 555/15 of the Civil Code also provides that an expert or translator may be appointed ad hoc in order to ensure continuity. As of January 2020, at least four oaths per year will be organised. The National Registers Service will issue guidelines on the application of the new law in January, in consultation with the Presidents of the courts and the Attorney General.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u45	Minister, perhaps a solution has been found to give the people who had a problem on 4 December the chance to take the oath and get to work as experts. I hope that everything will work out well and that the practical situation of some experts will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u46	Minister, on 7 October 2019, the European Union adopted a directive providing for a regime for the protection of persons "who report violations of Union law", in other words, whistleblowers. This directive represents an important step in this area. It extends the protection of these people to many sectors, such as public procurement, finance, public health, environmental protection, transport safety and many others. It will allow whistleblowers to benefit from the protection afforded by these rules, whether they use internal, external channels or the public disclosure provided for in the Directive. It is essential that these persons be protected from prosecution or reprisal by their employer, since they act in the collective interest. Mr Minister, I stress that the directive provides for a minimum level of protection and that Member States can provide more favourable provisions for alerts. Belgium could therefore grant more extensive rights to whistleblowers than is provided for in this Directive. There is, of course, a need for mechanisms at national level to ensure the application of this Directive, for example the designation of the competent authorities to receive external alerts. In particular, these external reporting channels must meet certain criteria in order to ensure their independence and autonomy. Therefore, Minister, given the importance of the proper implementation of this directive and the work required to do so, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the Belgian Government's position on the question of extending the rights of warning launchers at Belgian level in relation to what is provided for in the Directive? Although the Directive has recently been adopted, has work been started on its transposition?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u47	Mr Bayet, as you pointed out, the directive sets common minimum standards for the protection of whistleblowers limited to sectors within the competence of the European Union. Member States are encouraged to go further, to adopt horizontal legislation that can extend to the whole scope of their competences. The advantage of adopting such legislation at Belgian level would be to allow citizens, in order to be protected, not to ask themselves whether what they want to denounce is the competence of the European Union or not. However, it seems to me that such a decision, which goes beyond the transposition of the directive, cannot be taken by a government in its current affairs. Pending a decision on this possible extension of the scope, the transposition process has already begun. As you know, the directive concerns many departments at both federal and federated levels. Its transposition will require long-term work involving various stages, including an inventory of what already exists in the various areas concerned. A first coordination meeting was held to identify specific competences for transposition of the Directive. A further meeting will be held at the beginning of February with the objective, inter alia, of analysing the impact of the Directive on their respective legislations by the various departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I'll meet you. Indeed, a full-fledged government should decide on this matter. But it's good to move on. It is an essential text, in which I had the opportunity to participate when I was a Member of the European Parliament during the former parliamentary term. You know, as we all do: it is important to protect whistleblowers. In the Luxleaks or Panama Papers cases, it was thanks to all these people that we were able to discover how many of them cheated, cheated, and did not want to be accountable to society. Here, we have the opportunity to have an essential and effective tool. I am counting on you to improve as much as possible this protection of whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u49	Thank you, Mr Bayet, for your European expertise. Moving from one assembly to another can sometimes be positive for the coming assembly!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u50	Question No 55002212C by Mr Emir Kir is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u51	Mr Minister, on 4 October 2019, a message was published on the website of the Gaming Commission in which the Subcommittee on the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 on the conditions for the exploitation of games of chance and betting through information society instruments calls for input from the relief sector, the prevention services related to gambling addiction and debt mediation services. At the end of September 2019 the online operators were also consulted. However, it is not clear on the website why the subcommittee exists, on which it is dealing and against when the consultations are to produce results. That is why I have the following specific questions. Firstly, why was this sub-committee set up under the very long title of "Hungary"? Secondly, on what issues, related to the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018, and with what finality does the Subcommittee address more specifically? Thirdly, how many meetings were held by the subcommittee? Who was heard? Fourthly, has the subcommittee drawn any conclusions or taken any decisions? If so, what are the conclusions and what are the consequences for gambling policy? If not, when can conclusions be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u52	Mr Van Hecke, the subcommittee was set up as a working group to answer questions about the practical application of the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. In an interpretative note, the working group included a proposal for a definition of advertising, banners and sponsorship. In addition, bonuses, deposit limits and credit cards were also discussed. The working group met nine times and consisted of the chairman and four members of the Gaming Commission. The working group received the National Lottery, the National Bank of Belgium, the Player Protection Associations, the Jury for Ethical Practices on Advertising, the Faculty of Law of the KUL, the High Council for the Audiovisual Sector of the French Community, the Media Council and the federations of operators. The Interpretative Note of the Working Group was presented, discussed and approved at the Gaming Committee on 26 November 2019. The interpretative note enables the Gaming Commission to deal with questions and complaints about the existing Royal Decree in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u53	During your answer to the first two questions, Minister, you were well on your way to the list of those involved. However, in your answer to the question of what was ultimately decided and what the conclusions are, you remain very cryptic. You are talking, among other things, about a uniform regulation of complaints. What exactly is the object? What are the conclusions? Are they published? Are they public knowledge? Are they scattered? For the answer to those questions, I'm still hungry. I do not know what was finally decided after those nine meetings. Can you give some explanation on that? I see you shaking no. You want me to ask you a new question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u54	If you think my answer is not clear, what I did not say, you are free to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u55	You can probably only say what you've been given. I will retable the question and be more specific. Hopefully you will then be given sufficient information to make it known to Parliament, which attaches great importance to the proper functioning of the Gaming Commission, and which considers it important that the Gaming Commission should be able to do its work very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u56	Mr. Secretary, you've been dragging this file for a while. Lawyers can file their case files digitally. Before that there was a free system set up by the government, e-Deposit, but in October last year all lawyers were obliged, for a fee, to use a portal of the Order of Flemish Baries, the DPA. However, the Council of State has held that the portal of the Order of Flemish Balies is not a computer system of justice. There has already been an opinion in that sense, which you have already been questioned about, but at that time you have not yet been able to give a final opinion on it. The Council of State has also ruled that the Minister of Justice cannot impose on lawyers the use of that system for their electronic communications. That is why the Council of State destroyed the article on this issue in the Royal Decree issued in October of last year. I have the following questions for you. First of all, what is your response to the Council of State judgment? Secondly, what practical consequences does the judgment have for the filing of procedural documents? Thirdly, what measures will you take to comply with the judgment? By when? Fourthly, earlier you replied that the system of the Order of Flemish Baries was important, because it allowed systematic quality control for lawyers. How do you intend to provide for this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u57	Mr Van Hecke, I will, of course, give an appropriate follow-up to the judgment. As regards the maintenance of the past, the judgment states that all deposits already carried out through the DPA should be considered valid. In addition, the Council of State has established a transitional period until 12 January 2020, which should allow the necessary measures to comply with the decision to destroy the relevant provisions. The ICT staff of the FPS Justice Department is working on a technical solution, which will be made available as soon as possible after testing, within the time limit provided for in the judgment. As far as the quality check is concerned, the judgment states that it is not necessary, by electronic means, to carry out such a systematic check on the quality of the documents, from which I conclude that they should not be provided for.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am, of course, very interested in the appropriate follow-up to that judgment. It is quite fundamental, because it is actually said that the system used is not a judicial computer system. If you want to follow it up properly, this would mean that an IT system of justice will have to be used. I do not know whether the system currently in operation can be converted so quickly from a system that is not from justice to a system that is of justice, or whether a previous system will be put back into operation. I'm curious about that. I will question you again in January. I think you'll know the answer then.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u59	Mr Van Hecke, the old system still existed. It was still used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u60	So one can easily fall back on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u61	Madam President, Minister, last week in the press, to describe the state of justice in our country, the Prosecutor of the King of Mons had quite harsh words. He compared Belgium to "an underdeveloped state". While the comparison may seem excessive, it has the merit of illustrating the extent to which the judicial world is lacking in the face of what can be described as abandonment by the state, in particular the last federal government that has continued to cut in the budgets for justice. Minister, this is not the first time I have asked you to try to convince you of the urgency of the situation. In particular in my district, the Hainaut, where the lack of resources is soaring, several trials have had to be postponed due to the lack of magistrates to preside over them. This was already the case last year with the trial of Roisin. So I came to ask you about it. Today, the Mons Public Prosecutor's Office operates with 75 per cent of its staff, six judges are missing at the Court of Appeal and places are not ready to be occupied. Not to mention that Mons' courthouse is in a pitiful state. I know that the government is in day-to-day business and that your ability to act is limited. Nevertheless, I believe it is your responsibility to send a constructive signal to the players in the judiciary. Therefore, what is your response to the alarm cry of the King of Mons' prosecutor? Today, what steps are you prepared to take to increase the human and material resources for the judicial world of our country? At the Hainaut Court of Appeal, could you please indicate whether the absence of six judges will soon be compensated by recruitment? As far as the Mons courthouse is concerned, will you make an effort to plan for the necessary work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u62	Mr Thiébaut, contrary to what you say, the judiciary is not currently facing a cut in the staff budget. When this government took office, the budget envelope for the judiciary during the 2015 budget conclave was around 634 million euros. In 2019, it amounts to 694 million euros, or 60 million more. Through this, in consultation with the Colleges of Courts and Public Prosecutors, I can regularly plan recruitment plans for the judiciary and the judiciary. By Christmas, 24 holidays will still be published for magistrates in courts and tribunals. On 6 December, 18 vacancies for prosecutors, including one for Mons-Tournai, were published. Four appointment procedures are under way for the Mons-Tournai Public Prosecutor's Office. However, there is a recruitment problem. Several calls for applications for the position of substitute did not attract enough applicants. In 2017, for example, there were twenty-one vacant post publications for this prosecutor's office. Eighteen of them were actually vacancy publications, for which no candidates had appeared. To remedy this problem, the Mons Public Prosecutor's Office has received the support of prosecutors'lawyers. With 16.16 full-time equivalents, Mons has the largest number of prosecutors in the country, after Brussels. For the Court of Appeal, three procedures for the appointment of counsel are under way. It will therefore count twenty-eight for a framework of thirty. As the court recruits from the courts, a balance should be ensured between all levels. As far as the Mons courthouse is concerned, I am aware of the situation. Work has been undertaken to maintain security. Others are under way or planned in the short term. For the long-term vision, a working group has been organized and has already met three times to reflect on better accommodation for the services of the Montoise justice system. A new meeting is being held today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u63	Minister, thank you for these very numerical explanations. I just want to ask you one more question, minister. How do you explain the lack of attractiveness for positions that are open? However, it is a cause for concern that there is a need to renew calls for applications for necessary positions. Obviously, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u64	If I can answer, Madam President, I can only speculate on the causes. For Tournai and the province of Luxembourg, the explanation to be found is probably in their eccentric character. Their problems are not widespread throughout the country. It is true that the exams are difficult. Therefore, the number of candidates selected is not very high. Therefore, the reason for the lack of judges at the Mons-Tournai and the province of Luxembourg prosecutor's offices is not a lack of resources, but a lack of recruits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u65	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u66	Minister, at the Justice Committee on 6 November, I was asking you about the search that is taking place at the home of a Kazakh lawyer who obtained asylum in our country in 2013, in the presence of two Kazakh police officers – which you confirmed at the time. Belgium has thus accepted a request for judicial cooperation from Kazakhstan, which has been validated by the investigating judge in charge of the case, by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office and also by your Ministry. This search is currently the subject of an appeal to the Chamber of Counsel. I confess that your answers have not satisfied me at all, even though I can understand the delicate situation in which you are placed when you are questioned about an ongoing investigation. Issues of principle remain outstanding at several levels. You confirmed that three letters rogatory issued by Kazakhstan had already been executed in Belgium in other cases. You also argued that the principled position that mutual legal assistance cannot be granted simply because the person was granted refugee status would inevitably result in restraining the prosecution of a person who is both persecuted and guilty of offences. Moreover, you did not consider it useful to comment on the illegitimacy of mutual legal assistance with a country known for its authoritarian character, which, in doing so, exposes political refugees, but also political opponents more generally, to a serious risk of torture or arbitrary detention in their country. Minister, were the letters rogatory issued by Kazakhstan and already executed that you mentioned in your response of 6 November also concerned political refugees and/or lawyers? Can you quote them? In the context of these letters rogatory, have documents also been seized and transmitted to the requesting State, as in the case concerning Ms. Jadermalia? Would Belgium's action be the same with regard to political refugees fleeing any other authoritarian regime? In this context, does the Government continue to argue that Kazakhstan remains a trustworthy rule of law when it makes a request for mutual legal assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u67	Mrs Rohonyi, on 6 November 2019, I provided a detailed answer to the many questions on this subject in this committee. I told you at that time that it is very delicate for a Minister of Justice to give answers in respect of such a case in the light of the principles of our rule of law, including the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation, especially since this case will still be dealt with before the indictment chamber and the Council of State since a request for suspension has been made. I await the outcome of these judicial decisions before adopting any position or taking any action. I therefore confirm that no documents have been transmitted to the Kazakh authorities. I would like to reiterate once again that international cooperation in criminal matters with Kazakhstan is based on the United Nations Conventions against Transnational Organized Crime, on the one hand, and against corruption, on the other, which are still in force, as well as on the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism. All have been ratified by Belgium and Kazakhstan, which are thus bound by the rules contained in these instruments. Such instruments and the forms of crime they concern require cooperation between States parties. You are asking me in substance whether it is normal to cooperate with countries that do not respect all the principles of the rule of law. My answer is positive, to a certain extent. That the country in question did not respect all the principles of the rule of law did not mean that there was no real crime in that country and that impunity should be granted as soon as a person had crossed the border, on the pretext that he had committed his crime in a non-democratic country. I do not say – and I insist on this – that the person in question has committed an offence. But the situation in terms of cooperation is necessarily more nuanced than some would suggest. All international requests for mutual legal assistance are first verified by my services and, secondly, by the judicial authorities as to their legality and accuracy, paying particular attention to the national and international context of the requesting country, to the chargeable fact, to the duty of inquiry claimed, to the grounds for refusal, if any, and to the quality of the persons concerned. The information of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the report of national and international bodies are, among other things, valuable aids in this regard. In this case, the political refugee status and the relevant rules were not lost sight of. Interpol red notices are reports of arrest for extradition purposes. Such alerts cannot be used for political purposes, and Interpol blocks certain alerts at its level. Other alerts are included in the police data bank. However, police and judicial authorities are aware of the need to be cautious in the implementation process, as such reports may come from the 194 Interpol member countries. The three requests for mutual legal assistance with Kazakhstan, between 2012 and 2014, which I mentioned in committee, did not relate to political refugees or lawyers. In conclusion, I would like to say that part of my answer related to the questions put by Mr Cogolati. As the latter is not present, I have tried to separate the answers as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u68	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is as complete as possible under the current procedure. I understand that you can be placed in a delicate position, but questions of principle arise. I am very pleased to hear that no documents have been transmitted to Kazakhstan, but it seems to me that this is a provisional solution. Depending on the outcome of the ongoing dispute, these documents could be transmitted, while you have a role to play in preventing it and may be affected, in particular, by the physical integrity of Ms Jadermalia or political opponents whose defence is provided by this lawyer. As legalists, we will never ask you to pronounce the impunity of some people because they enjoy political refugee status. Similarly, we will never ask you not to apply international conventions that we have ratified. However, one of the conventions you have cited, the one relating to organized crime, provides in article 14 (of its Additional Protocol) a safeguard clause which specifies that no provision affects the rights, obligations and responsibilities of States and individuals under international law, including the 1951 International Convention relating to the Status of Refugees. A balance must therefore be struck between the search for offences and the protection of refugees recognized in our territory, in particular when they have been granted refugee status even though Belgium was aware of the ongoing proceedings. The lawyer was granted refugee status in 2013, while Belgium was aware of the incriminations relating to this person. I urge you to be very vigilant in this matter as well as in the future. We are not immune to new cases of this type.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u69	Questions Nos 55002230C and 55002234C by Kristien Van Vaerenbergh are postponed. Question No 55002238C by Mr Samuel Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u70	Mr Minister, the procedure for the selection of European prosecutors in the context of the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office by November 2020 has entered its final stage at the level of the Council of the European Union. According to the press, on 7 December 2019 you would have notified your wish to see your current Deputy Chief of Staff appointed for Belgium as your European prosecutor. However, I believe that this candidate would be the least ranked among the Belgians in the European selection process. Indeed, he would have ranked third behind two other candidates, namely your former Deputy Chief of Staff, current Administrative Director of the Central Body for Seizure and Confiscation (OCSC), which is ranked first, and the Advocate General at the Brussels Court of Appeal and former Head of the Economic and Financial Section of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, ranked second. As part of this procedure, your initial decision of 29 March 2019 to propose to the European Union your two current and past Deputy Chiefs of Staff as candidates for the post of European Public Prosecutor can already ask questions and question us in terms of impartiality. And this, while, as the call for candidates which was published in the Belgian Monitor on 25 January 2019 states, independence is a legal condition for appointment. Candidates must in fact commit themselves, as specified in the call for candidates, to act independently in the general interest. Mr Minister, since the appointment of the European Public Prosecutor for Belgium should be confirmed on 19 December (tomorrow) at the European Summit for Justice, how do you justify the presentation of your current Chief of Staff as the best candidate for the post of European Public Prosecutor to represent Belgium, taking into account its European assessment and the legal conditions of the European call for applications which it was up to you to verify – i.e. to offer all the guarantees of independence and to exercise the functions of magistrate and to have held the office of Public Prosecutor for at least 10 years over the last 15 years? In these circumstances, do you not think that it would be appropriate to present as the European Public Prosecutor for Belgium, the only candidate who is under the legal European conditions of appointment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u71	Madam President, the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office are all independent under the Constitution (Article 151, § 1). If the passage through a cabinet meant the end of this independence, it would be a fundamental problem: not only for international functions, but for any function within the public prosecutor's office at the national level. I hope that no one is saying that independence is not essential to be, for example, attorney general or king's attorney. You can imagine that no judge in the Public Prosecutor's Office would be able to advise a Minister of Justice if this meant the end of the evolution of his career as a magistrate. There would therefore no longer be a magistrate in the team of advisers to the Minister of Justice, contrary to the practice that has always been. Do you think the system would be better off? I can reassure you of the conditions, including seniority, laid down in the Rules of Procedure. They are filled in for all candidates who have been proposed at European level. Finally, the reason why Belgium supports Yves Van Den Berge's candidacy lies in the position of the College of Attorneys General. Not only did they clearly assess this summer that the applicant's application was the best, but they recently insisted, after hearing the opinion of the European Selection Panel, that Belgium should draw the European Union's attention to this position of the College. The relations of the Minister of Justice with the College of Attorneys General are primarily institutional. This must be seen in article 143bis of the Judicial Code. The College is therefore very concerned about its independence. Let us imagine for a moment that the candidate is not a member of my cabinet and that I have decided not to give any importance to this last letter from the College of Attorneys General. Wouldn't anyone have blamed me for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answers, which complement what has been reported by the press. I am very pleased to have questioned you because in this case, when I hear your comments, I find that the press has not sufficiently emphasized the assessment made by the College of Attorneys General. It was very useful to ask you this question. The purpose of this was not at all to question the passage through a prosecutor's office. It is interesting to have legal experience in a ministerial cabinet working on criminal law issues in particular. I'm not questioning that. The European Public Prosecutor is asked to have a thorough knowledge of the various European legal systems, and in this case of the Belgian legal order. So I'm not questioning that. What asks me more is timing. The position is proposed to a person who is currently still working in a departmental office. It still has a political function. If this person no longer worked in your firm, things would have been different. It is more a timing problem that I highlighted in my question, than a skill problem as such. Of course, I am not questioning that person's skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u73	Minister, last weekend a study report in De Standaard showed that part of the new building of the European Council was built with undeclared work. Following a complaint to the Labour Auditorate, a dossier was prepared, but it appears that there is a four-year gap in the file. The file was lost and therefore statute of limitations. Moreover, it would not be the first time that such a thing happens: magistrates state in the article that it does not surprise them and that it is exemplary for a bigger problem. According to a substitute worker's attorney, it may happen that files may end up on the wrong pile, be lost between a lot of paperwork or with a colleague who does not have time or energy to deal with it." So, Minister, magistrates say that a lost file does not surprise them and is exemplary for a bigger problem. That must be a serious concern; a dossier should never be lost. Did you know about any other lost files? If so, how many files have been submitted annually or in recent years? If not, will you have it examined? What happens in cases where the file is lost? How are we going to deal with that? How do you intend to ensure that files are not lost in the future? The article shows that abuse of people without papers is a fairly big problem. Yet, according to many, there is some impunity. What are the guidelines for prosecuting the exploitation of people without papers? Is there a directive or a letter on this matter? If so, what does the letter or directive provide? Is it properly followed in practice? If not, would you like to draw up guidelines or a debrief? For the last three years, can you tell us the number of pvs for exploitation of undocumented people, the number of dismissals, the number of convictions and the number of acquittals?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u74	Mr Van Hecke, as a result of the disturbing elements in last weekend's press article, I asked the Attorney General of Brussels. In turn, he requested a full and detailed report from the Brussels Labour Auditor on the file. Within the short timeframe of the question, the Attorney General of Brussels was able to obtain the following brief information. I quote: 'The file that was lost concerns a complaint by three persons who indicated that they had worked at the site of the European Council building and that they would not have been paid. The Brussels Labour Auditorate classified that file without result, because there was no sufficient evidence of the effective employment of the three persons. This decision is in line with the decisions of the investigation conducted by the Monitoring of Social Laws." That's the FOD WASO. I continue to read: "It is correct that the delay with which the decision was taken, in this case the dismissal, after the investigation by Supervision Social Laws, must be explained by the fact that the file was lost. The auditor informs me that the Brussels Labour Auditor has no knowledge of other lost files. If a file is lost, it can be compiled back by using the services that have conducted the investigation, such as the police and social inspection, and which, for example, have copies of the report drawn up. After all, the investigation files have not been digitised." As far as your second question is concerned, I, Koen Geens, cannot obtain any figures within the short timeframe of the oral question. The Labour Auditorates do not all have at present a uniform computer system that allows reliable figures to be provided. The roll-out of MACH in the labour auditorates is still in full swing. There is no specific letter from the College of Attorneys General on the exploitation of people without papers. However, there are more general criminal policy guidelines on social criminal law and trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. So you confirm what was in the article, in particular that the file was lost. I think this is indeed disturbing. Criminal records that are being drawn up, investigations that are being conducted and then suddenly disappear, that is something that happens very exceptionally. You do not confirm what has apparently been declared anonymous, in particular that this will happen again. You say you have no knowledge of it. That will be the information you have received from the Attorney General, who has informed himself with the employment officer. The question is whether these sources are so unreliable. Do these job auditors deliberately say that wrong? I'm worried. Perhaps, but I should not ask you that question, it would not be bad if, for example, an audit were to be carried out by the Supreme Court of Justice, which is often done when one finds that there may be a problem in the operation. It is only a suggestion, but if we see that there is some contradiction about the way things are done, it may not be a bad idea. I understand that you, Minister Koen Geens, cannot give me such figures on such short notice. I would have thought you would say that for a year now the Public Prosecutor has refused to report figures to you as Minister at the request of Members of Parliament, but you have now found a different wording, which is somewhat more elegant. You have challenged me to ask these questions in writing so that you have more time to give me these figures. I will therefore ask a written question to find out these figures. I'm not just asking for these numbers. The impression is that such cases of illegal employment do not receive sufficient attention. If that is correct, this could also be demonstrated by the figures, by the number of minutes, by the number of sequestrations or by the reasons for the dismissal. This can have important policy implications. That is why I shall put a written question on this matter. I hope to know more in January or February.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic081x.u76	Question No 55002201C by Mrs Marie-Colline Leroy is transformed into a written question.
