ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that the discussion of point 8 be inserted after the discussion of points 15 and 16: 8. - Legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Leen Dierick, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) to make legal aid insurance more accessible, Nos 3560/1 to 6. - Legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne and Mr Benoît Dispa) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to be able to deduct full tax relief insurance premiums for legal aid, Nos 677/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that you insert the discussion of item 8 after the discussion of items 15 and 16: 8. - Bill (Ms Griet Smaers and Leen Dierick, MM. Gautier Calomne and Luk Van Biesen and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) to make legal protection insurance more accessible, Nos. 3560/1 to 6. - Bill (MM. Christian Brotcorne and Benoît Dispa) amending the Income Tax Code 1992, to allow the total deductibility of insurance premiums ′′legal protection′′, Nos. 677/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill (Mr Philippe Pivin and Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mrs Sandrine De Crom and Mrs Nele Lijnen) amending Article 25 (1) of the Law of 27 April 2018 on the railway police, Nos 3665/1 to 4. - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Mr David Clarinval and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne) laying down various provisions on pensions, Nos 3577/1 to 4. The last item will be discussed after the oral questions. - the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 30 January 2019 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the prevention and control of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species, No. 3638/1. - the proposals of Declaration for the revision of the Constitution, Nos 3708/1 and 2. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of today's plenary session: - the bill (MM. Philippe Pivin and Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Ms Sandrine De Crom and Ms Nele Lijnen) amending Article 25, § 1, of the Law of 27 April 2018 on the Railway Police, Nos. 3665/1 to 4. - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq and Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and MM. David Clarinval and Vincent Van Quickenborne) with various pension provisions, Nos. 3577/1 to 4. The last item will be discussed after the oral questions. - the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 30 January 2019 between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species, No. 3638/1. - the proposals for a declaration of revision of the Constitution, Nos. 3708/1 and 2. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I also propose that the discussion of the donations to certain political parties should be preceded by the appointment of the members of the data protection authority's knowledge centre. I also propose that you discuss the endowments to certain political parties prior to the appointment of the members of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u3	I have received amendments to the bill (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Hendrik Bogaert, Mr Veli Yüksel and Mr Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions concerning the recruitment and professional evaluation of the military, No. 3608/4. I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Damien Thiéry, Hendrik Bogaert, Veli Yüksel and Tim Vandenput) amending various provisions relating to the recruitment and professional evaluation of military personnel, No 3608/4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Defence Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of April 3, 2019, I propose that these amendments be referred to the National Defence Committee (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Following discussion of these amendments in committee, the legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today. The discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of these amendments in committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I have received amendments: - to the bill (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and its Annexes, drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973, and amending the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein, No. 3202/4 and - to the bill (Mr Frank Wilrycx, Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mr Benoît Friart) amending the law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to introducing a competitive tendering procedure for the construction and operation of production facilities in the sea areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium, No. 3581/5. I have received amendments: - to the proposal for a law (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annexes, done at Washington on 3 March 1973, as well as the Amendment to the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade, No 3202/4 and - to the draft law (Mr Frank Wilrycx, Mrs Len Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers, MM. Damien Thiéry and Benoît Friart) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to introducing a procedure for the introduction of competition for the construction and operation of production facilities in marine areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium, No 3581/5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture (art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u4	By e-mail of 2 April 2019, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance and Development Cooperation requested that a technical improvement be made to the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code in order to exempt donations of non-food products to the most deprived persons from VAT. By e-mail of 2 April 2019, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance and Development Cooperation requested that a technical correction be made to the draft law amending the Value Added Tax Code to exempt from VAT donations of non-food goods to the poorest. The draft law was adopted in the plenary session of 28 March 2019, no. 3559/5. The bill was passed at the plenary session of March 28, 2019, No. 3559/5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that you agree to this. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 3 April 2019, I propose that you approve this request. A corrigendum to the technical improvement will be published on the Court's website, No. 3559/6. A correction with the technical correction will be published on the Chamber's website, No. 3559/6. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u5	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, David Clarinval, Roel Deseyn, Peter Dedecker, Dirk Van Mechelen, Eric Van Rompuy, Benoît Piedboeuf, Rita Gantois.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u6	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Calomne, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u7	Mr President, will we have the honour of having the Minister present for this discussion? If it does not contain any major political content, it nevertheless seems to me that, as a matter of principle, an executive member must be there to answer any questions that colleagues may have.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u8	Mr Gilkinet, as indicated yesterday in the Conference of Presidents, the competent minister, Mr Gilkinet, De Croo, I'm sorry. It was clarified that he would be replaced by Minister De Backer. Like you, I see that he's not here. I therefore ask the services to call him so that he can join us as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not bore you with an anthology of the various fine articles in a law containing various provisions, but I would like to highlight two brief points. There are two major changes. Through the first amendment, we solve an essential problem of recent years, in particular that when listed companies split up their shares or create a spin-off, withholding tax was levied until recently. The investor then lost 30%, even though he didn't actually get a profit from it. The share was divided into two parts, with the sum of both parts having the same value as the original share. The investor did not get a return, but was allowed to pay 30 % taxes, which of course was not so nice. This problem is corrected by this proposal. In the past, such a division has happened several times. I am thinking, for example, of the separation of Osram from Siemens, Verizon Communications from Vodafone, Kraft from Altria and, more recently, Google that split up its shares. Whoever had an A- and B- share got a C-share. They were no longer taxed afterwards, but legal certainty was not in advance. Many investors have sold their shares in advance and then bought back to avoid taxing 30%. This change will prevent such situations, so that investors will no longer have to pay taxes on them. A second important point I would like to stress is the strengthening of economic growth and social cohesion. The Relance Act approved a reduction in charges for construction companies. That was a very important reduction in the burden that would create jobs. Unfortunately, the indexation mechanism of the non-partial flow of the holding tax was not correctly implemented. As a result, this measure could not enter into force and a far too high minimum wage would have to be paid. That too is now being corrected, so that we can fully strengthen job creation. I assume this is to your great pleasure, too, Mrs. Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u10	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u11	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3528/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3528/9) The bill has 56 articles. The bill has 56 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u12	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u13	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: - 3135: Laurent Devin, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Karine Lalieux, Frédéric Daerden, Ahmed Laaouej - 3206: Laurent Devin, Karine Lalieux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u14	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, MM. Calomne and Gilkinet refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u15	Mr President, Minister, as ecologists, we can only welcome the prospect of a measure that promotes the purchase and therefore the use of bicycles, with the prospect of a reduction in VAT proposed by the Socialist Party colleagues whom I thank, even if there are bicycles of all kinds and prices. Since the announcement of the adoption of this measure, many citizens have contacted me to find out when it will be effective and whether they should delay the purchase of their bike. I have indeed had to tell them that this reduction in VAT must be agreed by the European Commission, so that it is subject to a green light from Europe. This is foreseen as such in the text after amendments. We will see what will happen and whether this intention can be translated into action. But Europe must, like us, be coherent. We are engaged in a merciless struggle to save the planet, to avoid warming it by more than 1.5 °C or 2 °C that would have enormous consequences. To achieve this, the number of kilometres travelled by car must be reduced and alternative modes of mobility such as cycling must therefore be encouraged. Mr Van Rompuy, it is clear that this measure will have a cost to public finances, like other measures that will be examined today and that you point out precisely for their budgetary impact, but in climate terms the cost of inaction will be much higher than measures that must encourage and support our citizens to choose, for example, other less polluting modes of mobility, to isolate their homes or to support renewable energies. That is why, with regard to a reduction in the cost of purchasing bicycles through a reduction in VAT, we enthusiastically support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a liberal party, we are, of course, in favour of any possible reduction in taxes, especially here as regards VAT on the purchase of electric bicycles. We also supported that proposal in committee. There was an amendment by Mr Laaouej and Mr Devin to approve the proposal now, but to allow it to come into effect only after the adoption by Europe. That was clearly a PS amendment, following Mrs Smaers' intervention in committee. At that time we noted that this is actually the reverse way of working. Normally, the first consideration is whether a VAT reduction is possible. You should know, ladies and gentlemen, that lowering a VAT rate is not always obvious. One cannot just do that. Europe has a number of tables of forks within which Member States can operate for the reduced rate, the standard rate or the increased rate. It is therefore necessary to review whether such a reduction in VAT is possible for Europe. You will say that we did not do that either for other proposals that have been adopted. We did not indeed do that, but only because certain countries had already asked for that review. Let me take the example of the digital prints, which will be on the agenda as well. There we set the VAT rate for the printed version of a publication at the same level as its digital version. Europe was already asking for these two rates to be aligned and had given the mandate to do so. However, here, in this case, it is a new course of action that our committee supports. We can accept the proposal now, but we cannot tell the sector when the reduction will start and whether it will ever come into effect because we are dependent on Europe's approval. I have already noted in committee that this creates an incident. It is currently a peak period for bicycle traders. It may be surprising that I say this as a liberal, but in good families it is a tradition that the meter or the peter at a formal party, or one of the family at a spring party, offers a bike to the children. I'm just going to give this to show that the cycling sector is running its biggest turnover in April and May. The stocks for this have already been built up. A number of newspapers are right to read today that this measure is being feared. The private individuals and companies who want to encourage commuting may want to wait for Europe, because it is a 15% difference. It may take three, six or nine months to get a definitive conclusion from Europe. We have already warned in committee that this problem could arise on the market. This is also mentioned in several newspapers today. Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore made some reservations. We are, of course, in favour of approving the VAT reduction for electric bicycles. However, the method we used in committee is the opposite. First there is the approval in plenary and then we ask for the approval of Europe, with all its consequences. We consider the linking of these two to be a dangerous instrument and it is actually crippling the sector at the moment. You have read it in De Standaard today, and I personally am confident that Europe will approve it. You know that commuting must be encouraged with alternatives to the car and that the bicycle is the healthiest or most appropriate alternative. It therefore seems logical to me that Europe should give the green light to encourage people to buy an electric bicycle or a comfortable bicycle. So I don't agree with the sector that says this is fake news. I believe that Europe will approve this, provided that there is good justification. Now, however, we are going to get the opposite. There has to be a response from Europe after the adoption, which will show that this is not the way parliaments should operate, with a conditional approval, after which Europe can do nothing more than say yes or no. In principle, we will be able to stand the test of Europe, and I am confident in that. However, I fear that the current method of pushing it through this legislative term without any effect on the market, because let us be honest, there will not be a solution from Europe before the end of the season, which will only slow down the sector and will have the opposite effect of what this law aims at, in particular: getting as many people on the bike as possible, as an alternative commuting, as an alternative to commercial vehicles. That is the essence of my speech. I repeat that we are in favour, but we do want to take into account the criticism that the proposal is first approved here and that it is only then notified to Europe. In this way, the starting date will depend on adoption by Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u17	Mr President, the advantage of a two-step discussion, first in committee, then in plenary, is that we have time and space to reflect on it for a second time. I would therefore like to make use of this opportunity. Our group would like to apologize, because I believe that we have approved something wrong in committee. I do not mean that the intention is wrong, anything but even, because the reduction of charges is a very commendable initiative. You will always find a partner in us to reduce costs, especially if they have added value in terms of incentives, job creation, ecology and sustainable mobility, because these are of course very good things. However, we have made a number of comments in committee. Firstly, on the choice of opportunity. A lot of the budgetary costs will go to the discount on expensive racing bikes, which have nothing to do with sustainable mobility. An electric bicycle of 2 000 euros is different from a racing bike of 10 000 euros. In this respect, an opportunity could be chosen, but the path of reducing costs is a good one for us. Secondly, we have also made the point about the necessary approval by Europe. A creative and legal solution has been found by Mr Laaouej in order to bring the law into force only after the adoption by Europe. Mr Van Biesen has correctly explained the technicality of this. Nevertheless, I fear that there may be a problem. I am not as optimistic as Mr Van Biesen about Europe's approval. We have seen, for example, how long a change to the VAT Directive has taken for VAT on e-books, digital publications and digital news media. That has been a very long agony, even though it seemed to be a clear alignment. That procedure took several years. I believe that the threshold for this proposal is much higher. The amendment of the VAT Directive requires an initiative from the European Commission. It is not the Member States or Parliament that take the initiative, but the European Commission. She has the right of initiative in this area. After that, all 27 EU Member States must agree. If the Commission does not take an initiative, there will be no such change. If a Member State opposes this change, it will not happen. So allow me to be a little more sceptical than Mr Van Biesen as regards Europe's potential approval. Then what's the possible effect? You can see the impact of the proposal in the press: there is a policy of announcement. A reduction in charges is announced, which may come later, or which may not come at all. That's a bit like what economists always fear when they're talking about deflation: the delay behavior. When people expect their money to be worth more later, that they'll get more value for the same money, that they can buy a cheaper bike later, they postpone their purchase. This could have a very negative impact on the sector and not be conducive to the purchase of electric bicycles and sustainable mobility. I therefore ask for the proposal to be sent back to committee for further reflection on this matter. Otherwise, our group will not support the proposal, not because we do not agree to an effective tax reduction, but because we fear the unintended negative effect on bicycle sales. This would be contrary to the legitimate objective of the proposers. Best we do everything we can to make communication very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u18	Mr Dedecker, I hear you are asking for the proposal to be sent to committee. Do you have an amendment to that effect or can you designate an article for that purpose? I would like you to consider the technical way in which you can ask for the return to the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, we unanimously approved the proposal in the House's Finance Committee. That did not happen at one meeting; we held two meetings on this. All kinds of arguments have been put forward, including an amendment asking for the approval of Europe to be awaited, which could have an effect on sales in the short term. I read the press yesterday and noticed a variety of reactions. Some bicycle dealers say that they have a huge stock and that people will now wait with the purchase, while they do not know how long they will have to wait. Other bicycle dealers say that someone who wants to buy a new bike in the spring does not wait months for a VAT reduction to pay 15% less. If consumers want to buy a bicycle for a solemn communion, they will not wait a year and a half for a possible VAT reduction. Of course, that's not how it works. So I do not think that is a valid argument. Secondly, everyone is talking about the environment. Just look at the climate demonstrations, which favour a different mobility. The electric bike is now promoted in all possible ways. Even Lucien Van Impe says he'd rather ride an electric bike than a regular bike. The use of bicycles is now, rightly, stimulated. Cycling, however, is becoming increasingly expensive and the VAT reduction can therefore have a positive effect. There is a democratic aspect in this respect. Mr Dedecker pointed out that some electric bicycles would cost EUR 10 000 and more, to which the VAT reduction would also apply. Of course, this is always the case with VAT, it cannot be linked to income conditions. Our group will continue to support the reduction. I believe that this should be consistent. Newspaper articles on Parliament, which would spend as much as 160 million and play sintering classroom, disturb me. Mr Calvo, we will not discuss the budget here. You can finance all that with your 8 billion-dollar tax increase, that's perfectly possible, isn't it? And if we can't, we'll just print green money. Why not? The helicopter flies over Belgium and spreads bags of green money to pay for the climate measures. All madness on a stick, let us not start that discussion, Mr Calvo. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, there is no need to change the theme. That's your tactic. The green money can be used to finance the VAT reduction. Why not? That's good for me. There is no need to print money to finance the reduction. The measure is perfectly possible without disturbing anyone. A sum has been made today. Whether the VAT reduction costs EUR 60 million, I don't know. After all, it can also bring about a change in behaviour. People may buy even more bikes and the reduction will therefore perhaps bring more. It is often not the case that a reduction is less effective. That, by the way, is a liberal statement. The liberal view is that the less taxes there are, the more people will consume and the more they will produce. So it'll all pay itself back. I even read that statement yesterday. The party chairman of Open Vld and the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr De Croo, are looking for tax cuts that will pay themselves back completely. Mr Van Mechelen gave one good example, namely the registration fees. However, this cannot be done in other cases. Parliament is not irresponsible. We have all been put together in the Committee on Finance and I am speaking very widely now, including various dossiers, such as legal aid, the Alimentation Fund and the debt guarantee, on which we may be building, perhaps EUR 100 million, although we are now talking about EUR 160 million. However, who in the government can come here and lecture us on the fact that we would approve legislative proposals for EUR 100 million, while the High Council of Finance states that the deficit will be EUR 8.5 billion in 2019? Mr. Dewael, all the bits are helping. Here in Parliament, the Finance Committee has no lessons to get on budgetary deficits. Indeed, in 2021, even EUR 11 billion will be needed to achieve the budgetary balance. How can we then begin to chicane, as I call it, about certain measures, which have not in fact been known what the cost is and whose social relevance is great? We reduced the VAT on plants a few weeks ago; that was a proposal from Mrs Gantois and Mrs Muylle. That reduction costs EUR 29 million. Open Vld also approved this proposal. Will we also discuss this reduction again in committee? The proposal has already been unanimously adopted here in Parliament, without many objections. If Parliament does anything, we are supposedly irresponsible, but if the government takes certain measures... we have here approved the tax shift for 8 billion, without knowing what the compensations were like. Yeah, I approved that. Yeah, we approved the tax cut. We also approved a number of compensations, but they never came. There were also a number of savings, but I am not going to have that debate here. Our group has approved matters in committee. We will keep our word. There are other proposals that may be less in line with us, but we have also approved them. Luk Van Biesen will be the record holder of the legislation in this Parliament. With Mr Piedboeuf, he has tabled at least eight to nine draft laws in committee and they have been adopted and they also have a cost. There is no mention of this because it comes from the government. That is where I would like to argue for some consistency. Mr President, would you refer this back to committee? Then we can refer everything to the committee. It will not be the possible EUR 59 million, I am sure it will be much less, which will derail the budgets. We are reminded of irresponsibility when there are budgetary deficits in this country, Mr Dewael. You will still be in this House in the next legislature. You will then have to find a little more than EUR 100 million to achieve the budgetary balance. You can laugh at that. You say we're irresponsible. I'm not gonna take that. The VAT proposal for bicycles is good for the environment and for the small man, because he will have to pay less for his bike. I think that this is really capitulating for media voting by a sector which is booming at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u20	Mr Van Rompuy, I leave all the unkind things you have said about the government in current affairs to be dealt with. You've been giving a lot of interviews these past few days. You give a lot of explanations, but my mother always said, "Whoever does not honor the little one is not able to resist the big one." It is not a question of saying that we are talking about only a few tens of millions, whereas the government is faced with a deficit that would have been caused and that would have been many billions. This is also a collective responsibility, including your party, which is also part of the government, Mr Van Rompuy. Secondly, I believe there is a warning in her place. We now have a government in current affairs because no government could be formed. As a result, Parliament has enjoyed great freedom and has passed a number of laws, which we should still be proud of. I think that we should be careful to deal with all the initiatives before us, a few weeks before the elections, regardless of whether their cost is in the millions or in the tens of millions. Mr President, for this reason I think it is right that the Chamber should stop its activities, otherwise it will be a bid from one to the other, which does not suit Parliament either, because I believe that this is a misunderstood independence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u21	Mr. Chair, the PTB welcomes this bill and we will fully support it. Indeed, the reduction of VAT on bicycles is a good thing, as explained in the development of the proposal. There are many benefits: physical exercise that is useful for improving health, reducing problems caused by road congestion, and environmental benefits. However, you know that the PTB prefers - rather than following the voice of environmental taxation - to take positive measures: to encourage large-scale and free transport and to encourage the use of bicycles. At the national level, it is true that Wallonia has a few lessons to learn from Flanders in this area, although it is true that the relief may be different there; I am against the situation in my own commune, which is more like Switzerland than the flat country. What is all the more interesting in this bill is that it also suggests the reduction of VAT on electric bicycles, a very good alternative that may be a little less efficient in terms of health, but in terms of road congestion and the environment, just as beneficial as non-electric bicycles. In this context, the PTB introduced an amendment. As much as it is good to reduce VAT on the purchase of electric bicycles, we still need to know how to use them. To use an electric bike efficiently, it must be loaded. So we have to put electricity in it. Our amendment therefore also aims to reduce VAT on electricity to 6%. In general, in addition to the discussion on bicycles, 6% VAT is a social necessity. VAT is the most unfair tax on basic necessities such as electricity: it seems to us that it is imperative to reduce it to 6%. The PTB has collected tens of thousands of signatures in a petition calling for VAT on electricity to be reduced to 6%. It is not normal to pay the same VAT rate on caviar as on electricity, which is why we are introducing this amendment to an excellent bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u22	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, time lost in endless traffic jams, air pollution, noise pollution... The list of negative effects due to excessive use of the individual car is long and well known by all. In the face of negative environmental impacts, we must offer alternatives to citizens and encourage the use of bicycles and public transport. According to the European Cycling Federation, approximately 13% of the Belgian population uses bicycles daily. The popularity of bicycles is growing across the country as the use of bicycles is good for health and beneficial for the climate. Good for health because the daily practice of physical activity, even moderate, is positive, especially in terms of prevention and management of chronic diseases such as cancers, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, obesity and osteoporosis. This activity is also good for health as it reduces air pollution. In this respect, the European Environment Agency regularly reviews the exposure of the European population to air pollutants and denounces the influence of road transport in the emergence of serious diseases such as heart disease, respiratory disorders and cancers. Bikes are good for the health of humans, but also good for the health of the planet, because of course they reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This reduction is essential, knowing that transport is one of the black spots of our country's climate policy. Emissions from the transport sector now account for 22.5% of Belgium's total emissions, compared to 14.3% in 1990. The number of vehicles has increased by 59 per cent since 1990. Today, our country has nearly six million vehicles. In order to meet Belgium's climate commitments, it is therefore essential to limit sources of air pollution, in particular by pursuing policies to reduce the use of private cars and by investing in greener mobility. The use of bicycles to get to work, for example, amounts to contributing to the decongestion of cities as the user leaves his car in the garage. For small trips, cycling is often a faster means of transport than the car. In our country, motorists lose precious time every day, stuck in traffic jams, especially in Brussels and Antwerp, as I mentioned in committee. Too high traffic density also has a negative economic impact. Recurrent congestion is a waste of time for workers and money for businesses. The competitiveness of the Belgian economy is affected. In view of the health, environmental and economic challenges associated with road transport, it is therefore essential for public authorities to promote alternatives to the use of private cars. For this, there is no one-size-fits-all solution. This must be achieved through multiple and consistent actions at all levels of government. My group, well aware of the many advantages of cycling, has decided to consider solutions to encourage its use. One is the reduction of VAT on bicycles, electric bicycles and Speed Pedelec. This idea has been defended for many years by the ASBL GRACQ and its Flemish counterpart Fietsersbond. These two organisations advocate a fairer and more incentive-oriented tax on bicycles. One of their priorities is to reduce the VAT rate applicable when purchasing to 6%. My group believes that this would encourage cycling and make it more socially accessible. A 15% reduction in the cost of buying a bicycle will attract more citizens to this efficient and environmentally friendly means of transport. This would also allow more people to have access to electric bicycles, which are, of course, expensive, but excellent alternatives to the individual car for short or medium distances, while allowing as many people as possible to pursue a sporting activity despite reduced physical means. As you said, Mr Van Hees, it may have less impact, but it is strong to the extent that it allows people who are no longer involved in cycling, because it has become too difficult, to consider getting back in the saddle. As you will have understood, this text is therefore intended to reduce the VAT rate applicable to the purchase of cycles, motor cycles or Speed Pedelec as defined in the General Regulation on Road Traffic Police to 6%, on the understanding that motor cycles and Speed Pedelec only take into account when they are electrically powered. I would like to thank Mr. Van Rompuy, chairman of the committee, for allowing for a constructive debate where everyone was able to speak. The committee referred to the fact that VAT is a prerogative of Europe. We have therefore tabled an amendment linking the entry into force of this text to the Europe agreement to reduce VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, once this text has been adopted, the Government will have the task of negotiating with Europe to obtain either a derogation or a general amendment to Annex III of the VAT Directive which deals with exceptions to the normal VAT rate. Minister, the ball is now on the side of the government to act as quickly as possible to ensure that this reduced rate is quickly applied. A second text is attached to this proposal to reduce VAT. It allows a tax reduction for the purchase of bicycles, electric bicycles up to 25 km/h and Speed Pedelec up to 45 km/h. Currently, a tax reduction is only provided for motorcycles, tricycles and quadricycles powered by an electric motor, but it excludes – and it is a pity – bicycles, electric bicycles and Speed Pedelec. Without calling into question the relevance of these provisions, we find it inconsistent to propose a tax reduction for the above categories but to exclude bicycles, electric bicycles and Speed Pedelec which are equally beneficial for the environment and mobility and whose purchase price can also amount to several thousand euros in the case of electric bicycles and Speed Pedelec. The attached bill makes it possible to correct this inconsistency in order to encourage a modal shift from the individual car to the bike. This bill, unfortunately, has not yet been able to obtain the agreement of colleagues from other groups, for the time being. It's nothing. We'll get back to it. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the debate launched on the relevance of a reduced VAT rate for bicycles. Thank you for your contribution to the debate and the vote that will take place today. I wish you a beautiful Tour of Flanders . I wish you a good Tour of Flanders on Sunday. I think we'll be looking at him several times. For having travelled twice already the Tour of Flanders by bike, but as an amateur, I saw all the inscriptions when we went back to Brakel. I therefore wish you a great deal of pleasure on the roads of the Tour of Flanders if you participate on Saturday. I wish you a great deal of pleasure in front of your television set and in the Flemish coasts on Sunday. Meanwhile, on July 6 and 7 in Brussels and on July 8 in Binche, in the city of which I am the mayor, I hope to welcome you many to celebrate, all together, the hundred years of the yellow jersey and the fiftieth anniversary of King Eddy Merckx's first victory on the big loop. Colleagues, live the bike!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u23	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u24	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3135/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3135/5) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u25	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 2/1(n) • 4 years Marco Van Hees cs (3135/6) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u26	The amendment is retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u27	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u28	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u29	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Ahmed Laaouej, Frédéric Daerden, Luk Van Biesen, Griet Smaers, Steven Vandeput, Benoît Piedboeuf, Benoît Dispa, Georges Gilkinet, Meyrem Almaci, David Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u30	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. MM. Rapporteurs Piedboeuf and Dispa refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u31	Mr President, for four years the government has reformed our economy in depth and corporate tax reform is obviously one of those important reforms. It focused in particular on SMEs, with a reduction of the tax rate to 20% up to the first 100 000 euros. It is largely financed by large companies as a balance was needed to avoid a significant budgetary impact. As a first step, the government had decided not to increase the penalty to 10%. Here, it is completely removed, including the 5% planned. So this is good news for managers and for SMEs. We were also committed to carrying out an evaluation of this ISOC reform to determine its impact on the economy in general, on investment and on employment. This assessment will have to be carried out because the removal of this penalty was conditional on it. Our group has endorsed the proposal we have voted on. It's never too late to fix a line and we did it together. I thank the colleagues who brought this beginning of correction. We will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u32	Mr President, I will not go back to the controversial aspects which have, at times, been very present in the debates on corporate tax reform. We were surprised – but also some in the majority – at the double penalty imposed on SMEs who do not allocate sufficient remuneration (45,000 euros) to at least one of their managers. If they do not pay at least €45,000 of the taxable income, they are not only not subject to the reduced rate – which is already an additional 5% tax – but also had a penalty of 5%. It was a bit of a lot. This proposal, which was in fact of a budgetary nature and was intended to finance the cost of reducing the rate, was very badly received by SMEs and their representatives, the Union of the middle classes in particular. In the committee, some have shown themselves to be open fairly quickly to correction. That's what we managed to do. I would like to thank all the colleagues who have agreed to continue the debate. I would also like to thank Minister De Croo, who understood the importance of changing the government's position, and the chairman of our committee, who made possible a debate that was not easy because an agreement had been reached within the government and the former majority. It was necessary to undo this agreement, which is never simple, but the result is there. SMEs thank us because they understand the effort that has been made collectively, even though it must be recognised that it is at the initiative of the PS Group. The truth of the facts must also be brought to justice. Many SMEs still suffer from a cash flow problem. They are not always able to allocate a remuneration of 45,000 euros. They now understand that we are attentive to their situation, that the legislator is not there to put sticks in the wheels of the economic development of these enterprises which make up more than 67% of employment in Belgium. That is why I am pleased that this bill has been able to obtain broad agreement in our committee, as will no doubt be the case in this House just now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Laaouej has just outlined how this proposal came about after several discussions. When the measure was introduced by the government in the implementation of the reduced corporate tax rates, there was a fear that small companies, now self-employed, would turn into companies or "corporates" as mentioned in the literature. In order to avoid a reduction in tax revenue in this way, the system was developed whereby a company which does not pay the minimum amount of EUR 45 000 to its manager is hit by a double tax increase. Indeed, that company can no longer benefit from the reduced rate of tax that measure already existed but it is also fined at the rate of 10% originally, then 5%. We opposed it from the outset, but since it was an overall agreement, we approved it in plenary. However, we have attached a clear condition to this, in particular that we should check the evolution of the income from corporation tax. However, we have found that corporate tax, at least its measure of advance payments by companies, has never been as high as in recent years. This means that more profits are being created. After all, even with a reduced rate one still gets increased advance payments. The State therefore receives more than or at least as much tax money as in the past. The said measure was a compensatory measure which would be evaluated after one year, but we did not await the official evaluation of the FPS Finance. On the basis of the figures for the advance payments of companies, we find that this poor, punitive measure should be withdrawn. We have used a PS bill in this sense as a coat rack. That bill was co-signed by all political parties, except the Flemish socialists, who apparently disagree with it. However, that is their responsibility. We have argued in favour of this measure. We had already managed to reduce the fine from 10% to 5% last year. Today we reduce that 5 % to 0 %, so that it can be deleted from the code. We will go one step further and make this measure retrospective, from 1 January 2018. This means that the current corporate tax declarations, the so-called Biztax, will have to adjust the programmes because they already took into account a fine for underpaid remuneration to businessmen. I believe that, at the end of this legislature, we are reducing one of our worst measures. I would therefore like to thank all my fellow Members for their support for our plea for the elimination of this fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u34	Mr President, our group will support this proposal. During the discussion one and a half years ago, we in the committee felt that linking the amount of the manager's remuneration to the reduced company rates would cause problems. Nor is it fair to impose fines on SMEs by leaving the amount of EUR 45 000 in the law. In the end, we have found a two-stage arrangement. I believe that the correction is necessary. In the long term, this penalty rate will disappear. The budgetary cost is difficult to estimate, but some speak of EUR 20 to 25 million. I was just talking about the VAT for the bikes. Corporate tax in Belgium generates 15 billion euros. Last year's corporate tax reform has a cost of around €5 billion. We have taken a number of measures, including those relating to the theoretical interest, but we do not know at this time what difference they will make. It can make a difference of hundreds of millions depending on the evolution of the interest. One must see everything in perspective. This measure is a fair measure vis-à-vis SMEs, where there would indeed be a risk of "joint ventures'. I think that is what Mr Van Biesen said. We should not punish SMEs for a number of things, such as the company rates that have been reduced for them. I believe that a good arrangement has been found for this and the PS group leader, Mr Laaouej, has a large share in it. He recognised that the original proposal had to be amended, so that we did not want to come up with a regulation which would be very detrimental to everyone. We shall be voting in favour of this proposal. Sometimes a government can make mistakes and Parliament can fix them, but Parliament should not be blamed for making corrections to measures that are very unfair, including for SMEs, using the budgetary argument. The government reduced corporation tax to nearly 5 billion a year and a half ago, and the overall income from corporation tax is 15 billion. Both here and in the media say that we are taking this measure, which is a measure of equity vis-à-vis small and medium-sized enterprises, for budgetary reasons, which Parliament does not take seriously. We are responsible and we are trying to take measures which are consistent and fair and which have a budgetary cost, but it is not excessive compared to the budgetary cost of other measures. If you have a budget deficit of 11 billion in 2021, this measure represents less than 0.3 % of what the fiscal deficit would be in a number of years. So let us look at everything in the right perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u35	Mr President, as Mr Van Rompuy says, everything must be seen in perspective. Looking at the reform of corporate taxation, this was a very important, essential and necessary measure. There is sometimes talk about the cost of company tax reform with the reduction of rates, but there is little point in talking only about that cost, if we do not take into account the cost of doing nothing. Doing nothing about the historical situation of our corporate tax would have given us a much higher cost, simply because of the lack of competitiveness, the removal of our companies and the lack of new start-ups. We have taken a very important step there. If we look at the reforms in neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe in relation to corporate taxation, the cost of doing nothing would have been immensely higher for the country. Hence the need to reform corporate tax and reduce rates. A number of compensations were provided for, inter alia, the mentioned notional interest deduction. This part too, this double penalty for SMEs that do not comply with the EUR 45 000 rule, was also a form of compensation that was foreseen for those who fear an excessive budgetary gap. I think that's what we did on shooting. A double penalty is just too much. That is not a good thing, because it creates legal uncertainty. You know what happens: an SME or self-employed person gets control, a number of expenses are rejected, the taxable profit increases and the rule is no longer met. Immediately one is overly and disproportionately sanctioned. Hence also this recovery measure. I am very pleased that this initiative has been taken. We fully support this, which is self-evident. I know that a number of people are afraid of further 'partnership', but that seems to me to be an exaggerated fear. On the one hand, there is today a reduced rate of 20% on corporation tax plus, on the other hand, 30% on withholding tax. On the other hand, there is 50 % passenger tax plus another RSZ. That is quite a difference, if one compares the two. The solution lies, of course, not in increasing the burden, but in reducing it. That is why we are calling for a reform of personal taxation to be carried out as a matter of priority in the next parliamentary term. It's too high and punished to work. If we do this as a matter of priority, we will be able to reduce the further 'joint venture' by reducing the burden rather than increasing it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u36	Mr President, as other Members have already said, this text, which I hope we will approve today, comes back to part of the debate we had during the discussions on corporate tax reform. My Ecolo-Groen group had supported the principle of reducing corporate tax while simplifying and eliminating certain tax niches that do not benefit SMEs and self-employed people at all. We were in favour of a reduction in the rate for SMEs and self-employed people in particular, because we believe that it is necessary to encourage these entrepreneurs who account for more than 67% of employment in Belgium, but above all who create jobs that are anchored in our own regions, unlike other groups that sometimes leave our country hastily leaving whole families on the tile. This is rarely the case for SMEs. We therefore pay particular attention to them. By the time the conditions for access to this reduced rate for SMEs had been presented, we had directly expressed the greatest reservations. We had also asked with other colleagues for a hearing of the Union of Middle Classes to obtain their opinion on the matter. This penalty of 5%, coupled with the increase in the minimum pay for the officer to access this reduced rate, seemed to us to be completely unfair. We had therefore, from the beginning, opposed this increase in the barrier to access this reduced rate and also the penalty attached to it. This is a very interesting exercise and I would like to thank the colleagues in the Socialist Group for having tabled legislation to redress this injustice, as we have also done. With regard to the 5% penalty, I think it is simply a matter of justice for this specific sector of SMEs and self-employed people that we wish to encourage. It is with enthusiasm that we will obviously support this text, which is also co-signed by my colleagues, Meyrem Almaci and Georges Gilkinet. We also want to return to the minimum remuneration of the leader who was applying before the reform, i.e. 36,000 euros. We have tabled a bill to that effect and I hope that we will also be able to make progress in this area, probably in the next Parliament. This is an important element for us; but we already support this first step that has been taken. I thank all the colleagues who supported this text, especially those of the majority who initially introduced this penalty and who are now going back to this unfair measure. We must also be able to stress that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PTB will support this proposal, which seeks to remedy a sanction that the majority government imposed on SMEs and which is, moreover, quite revealing of liberal policy in general. His speech was always very favourable to SMEs, but the measures taken proved to be particularly beneficial for multinationals. As such, corporate tax reform is exemplary. First of all, this measure constituted a double penalty imposed on SMEs, since those who were so punished would pay a nominal rate higher than that paid by a multinational. And I am referring only to the nominal rate, since the effective rate for large companies is often close to zero, whereas it is currently 25% for SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u38	Mr Van Hees, Mr Piedboeuf wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u39	Mr President, a lot can be said, but not anything. As I said at the moment, this corporate tax reform in favour of SMEs is taken over by 72% by large companies, notably in the context of the reform of notional interests, the implementation of the Anti Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD) and the introduction of a profit tax in excess of EUR 1 million. Anyway, we can tell what we want, but not anything. Mr Van Hees, please read the texts of the debates in committee!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u40	Mr President, perhaps Mr Piedboeuf should have waited before speaking: I was just about to dispel all the arguments he has just put forward. Notional interests are indeed changed through the reform of corporate tax, but – due to the fall in rates – they already did not represent anything. The minimum tax on profits above EUR 1 million is a joke, since the main niches of corporate tax are maintained – such as the exemption from capital gains and permanently taxed income. As a result, multinationals will continue to pay zero-euro taxes on hundreds of millions or even billions of profits. If we analyse the gain of this corporate tax reform for SMEs and multinationals, it is clear that they are the winners. Indeed, this provision was supposed to be presented in two parts, acting as two trays of a scale. On the one hand, the nominal tax rate was reduced; on the other, tax niches were removed. Tax niches have not been removed, except for a few marginal niches. On the other hand, the rates have been reduced. Who took advantage of the reduction in these rates? For SMEs, the rate has increased from 25% to 20%, which is a 5% difference. For multinationals, there is a change from 35 per cent to 25 per cent, which corresponds to a difference of 9 per cent. The reduction for multinationals is almost twice as high as for SMEs. We must also, and above all, take into account the manna of this reduction in rates. What is its budget for corporate tax reform? There is almost EUR 5 billion in terms of rate reductions. Of these five billion, how much benefits to SMEs and how much benefits to large companies? More or less 123 million are allocated to the reduction of rates for SMEs. In other words, only 2.5% of the budget devoted to the reduction of rates benefits SMEs benefiting from a reduced rate. All the rest, 97.5%, is devoted to reducing rates for large companies. In these circumstances, who benefits from this corporate tax reform? But we can go further and look at the tax niches. These have not been removed. The main tax niches that benefit multinationals, capital gains, dividends that are immunized, will continue to benefit multinationals. On the other hand, a series of SMEs are excluded. Thus, for example, with regard to capital gains on shares, the conditions have been revised upwards. Indeed, the conditions for permanently taxed income (RDT) have been imposed. In doing so, an SME that realizes equity gains and is not a major shareholder in absolute or relative terms of the equity company will no longer be entitled to the immunization of equity gains. But multinationals that are large shareholders continue to be entitled to the exemption from capital gains on shares. In addition, this exemption is increased to 100%. The same applies to the immunisation of dividends via RTD. So multinationals will continue to benefit from the tax niches that have even been extended. Now, the deduction is 100%. As a result, even more multinationals will pay 0% tax on profits in hundreds of millions or even billions of euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u41	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u42	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2920/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2920/7) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u44	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Van Peteghem and Mr Laaouej, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Mr Van Biesen has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are actually removing a VAT anomaly here. I have just referred to the presentation by the chairman of our committee, Mr Van Rompuy, in which he responded, and rightly so, to a number of insinuations as if we were just making some VAT cuts today to play sintering cheese, to hand out presents. On the contrary, we want to eliminate certain inaccuracies which have arisen as a result of the evolution of time. It is clear that a journalist's publication, either in print or in digital, should not in any way have a different rate. This is the case today. The printed press has a VAT rate of 0 % and the digital publication has a VAT rate of 21 %. Europe has commented on this, in particular on the need to have a uniform rate for approximately the same performance. That is why we, Mr Van Mechelen, Mr Piedboeuf, Mr Calomne and myself, have submitted the proposal to make the VAT of a digital print and a printed print equivalent. That is why we come up with the lowest rate. We did not increase the rate for the printed publication to 21 %. We have discussed the suggestion to bring this to 0 %. I think that we have played more concretely on the ball in the light of evolution. We should not be notified of this by Europe, because Europe itself is suggesting a uniform rate. In addition, a number of other countries have also preceded us to bring the VAT rate to the same level. I would like to call on the FPS Finance to make a correct description of what is covered by digital publications as soon as possible. There was an open question in the committee whether Gopress and Mediargus also fall under the VAT rate of 0 %. It is clear that it is up to the FPS to clarify this in a circular or a note to inform everyone as soon as possible which VAT rate they can use. I think we are here today to eliminate a VAT anomaly and certainly not to try to play sintering classroom.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u47	Mr President, as Mr Van Biesen rightly points out, we are indeed eliminating an anomaly. It is strange that a reduced rate applies to paper publications and therefore to printed dead trees, whereas this is not the case for the digital versions, the ecological road. The elimination of this anomaly is therefore actually also an ecological measure. We spoke just now in the debate on the VAT reduction for bicycles about the difficult process of creating the possibility at European level of reducing VAT. I am therefore very pleased that Minister Van Overtveldt has made a full effort to pave the way in the Council of the European Union so that, under the VAT Directive, Member States may apply a reduced rate or even an emergency rate not only on paper but also on digital media. The fare is also important. I would like to underline that. It is of course about literary works as well as journalistic works. It is an investment in the value of our democracy and in strengthening democracy, which is a good thing. I shall now turn to the budget cost, to serve Mr Van Rompuy with a fine list. The reduced rate versus the 21% VAT rate means 164 million euros less revenue for the government. Compared to the 6% rate, it is 47 million euros less revenue. A further EUR 12 million will be added for the application of the reduced VAT rate and zero rate for digital media. With this proposal we are adding a further EUR 12 million, which is a very limited amount compared to the whole exercise. Nevertheless, the overall picture is not wrong. On top of that, a further EUR 170 million per year will be granted for the distribution of paper newspapers via bpost. That puts a number of things in perspective. In addition to the amount of the reduced VAT rate on dead trees, we also spend a further EUR 170 million on the distribution of paper newspapers via bpost, which is not a bad thing. Finally, there is also the favourable tax regime for copyright. The withholding tax was increased to 30%, except for copyright. For this, it is limited to 15 % or 61 200 euros, with even a fairly high cost margin of 50 %, so that de facto only 7.5 % taxes are paid on the majority. This is a considerable concession for authors and for journalistic works. These total figures make it clear that society invests very much tax money in our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u48	Mr President, I agree with the basic position of previous speakers that the proposed text eliminates an anomaly. I myself am a fervent reader, whether digital or on paper, dead trees as the colleague calls them. Let us hope that we do not have to kill too many trees for this and that we can continue with other methods. As far as we are concerned, we are at least creating a level playing field and a logical next step, for which we have been a long-asking party. So I welcome that step forward. However, you will have noticed that we have also tabled an amendment. The sp.a colleagues will support it and everyone is welcome to sign it. We also want to discuss the arrangements for sterilizing house cats using the debate. That has come to us after the wrong practice, I would like to mention that without any negative connotation, moreover, of a consultation between GAIA, the pressure group, and the majority by mouth of the ministers Van Overtveldt, Reynders, Peeters and De Croo, who were in principle in favour of reducing VAT on the sterilization of cats. For those responsible in cities and municipalities, the overpopulation of cats is a very big problem. In the regions of Brussels, Wallonia and Flanders, legislation has rightly been adopted to require the sterilization of cats. This is how we want to tackle the problem of overpopulation. Our amendment seeks to add an additional incentive to the legitimate obligation to sterilize. I do not need to remind you that I am not in favour of extra barracks in our taxation. However, after consultation with the pressure groups, there was a majority agreement in principle. We must also note that the measure can ideally lead to a much smaller problem in the near future. That coffin will therefore largely lift itself. It means that it is an effective measure that we could take before the end of this legislature. If we want to ensure that regional sterilization laws are complied with, then we need more than sensitisation. We also need to be able to reduce the cost of sterilization. So we now have a unique opportunity to achieve our commitment through our amendment. At the same time, we give our local authorities an additional means to tackle the overpopulation. After all, it costs them a lot in terms of catching, tackling and ultimately euthanizing the animals. By reducing the cost barrier, the federal government can strengthen the passed laws and bring faster progress. That seems to us to be a good option for a legally compulsory service. Such a measure would seem to us to be well-behaved in view of the consultations and already expressed commitment. I therefore hope that we will be able to support this in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u49	Mr. President, I'll just make a little remark. In this case, we proceeded in order, as my colleague Van Biesen pointed out. Two years ago, we tabled a resolution, which was voted on, with the aim of recommending that the government intercede at European level in order to obtain this authorisation to align rates between digital and paper. This initiative had been followed up. We should have done the same with regard to bicycles, it is true. Finally, this has been achieved and we welcome it. The press, reading, whether on paper or via digital media, are factors of intellectual evolution and general culture. This is very good news and we look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in committee we have struck a balance between what measures we would propose to the plenary and what legislative proposals we would be able to adopt here. We have not received in any way the amendment that Mrs Almaci is now putting forward. Of course, we also received a visit from GAIA, like everyone else. As you know, we are in favour of lowering the VAT rate in this area and we do not have any problem with adding it to the agenda in a normal way, i.e. slightly rewritten. But let's be honest, linking a VAT change on digital prints to cat sterilization, I think, goes too far. It would have been better if this amendment had been discussed with the various political groups first to see which legislative proposal it would have been better suited to. I find it regrettable that Members of this House unilaterally reached the agreement we reached in the Finance Committee, where we would discuss various legislative proposals together and achieve as much unanimity as possible, suddenly transform in this Chamber and accept a proposal which most parties agree on, but on which we should first have a thorough debate. I regret the way in which we are now acting. I note that the chairman of the committee is due. I regret that a number of political parties are now putting forward a proposal to reduce VAT on the sterilisation of cats.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u51	Mr President, I think Mrs Almaci's concerns are justified. GAIA's concerns in this area are justified. However, I do not believe that it is the right way at the moment. We have just had a discussion about the VAT reduction on electric bicycles. Witches must be given the opportunity to decide locally on a reduction in VAT at European level. The debate's stuck. The risks in this respect are quite considerable. The present proposal for a VAT reduction for digital media has endured this agony and completed the entire journey. It passes the test. I certainly do not want to hypothesize that proposal by linking something to it now that has far from passed that test. The intention of the proposal is absolutely noble, but, again, it has not passed the test yet. I absolutely do not want to hypothesize this proposal. I believe that we should take a new initiative, even though unfortunately this can only be dealt with in the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u52	Mr President, I fully understand and respect the opinions of my fellow Members. However, for the sake of fairness, I was only informed last week of the fact that there had been a long-standing consultation with the previous majority. I was not part of the previous majority, and I was not aware of that consultation, even though I could support the commitment made in that consultation or provide for a timely submission. In that sense, I understand what Mr Van Biesen, among others, points out. I am the first to help manage the Chamber's work. I don't want to put anyone in the basket either. I merely note that a route has been laid down by the former majority. Now, in extremes, it is noted that nothing has been tabled on this matter, whereas today is the last moment to take action in this legislature, as you have just said, Mr Dedecker. There appears to be broad support, because the N-VA and the Open Vld also give their support. I would have preferred that it did not depend on us to table an amendment. The best thing was that the text could simply follow the path from the majority, to which apparently the commitment had also been made. Now, however, no result has been achieved. That's why I'm looking for a way, together with the organization that contacted us, to put this on the agenda. Well, I'm a little sorry I'm getting such reactions. Colleagues, if you give your support and commit yourself to it, the text can be sent back to committee and then re-examined in plenary. I started by saying that it is a strange amendment on this point. We are also very fond of the other point, but you cannot blame us for being in favour of one point as well. The objective is for a piece also stool, given some mandatory laws of the local authorities. That is why we believe it is important to put this item on the agenda for this legislative term in the greatest possible degree of constructiveness. It is by no means my intention to turn it into a well-naïve debate or even into an oppositional position. Last week, however, I was asked to submit this, partly in view of the fact that it is the last chance today and that there is consensus on it. That's why I invite everyone to sign it with us. It doesn't even have to be my amendment. If the commitment is widely shared, then I suggest we just do it. I believe that we have already taken decisions in a similar way. Koterij does not enjoy my preference, but in this logic I think it is clear to many that the problem will largely disappear if the overpopulation is effectively addressed. It's an argument that I rarely use, because it rarely applies, but here it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u53	Mrs Almaci, you can link anything to any bill or bill being debated in plenary, but the VAT reduction on cat sterilisation is considered a social priority under pressure from GAIA, because this is what we are talking about, and linking it to a discussion on the reduction of VAT rates for publications is a purely electoral strategy of Green. That's not serious anymore. Linking a VAT reduction on publications to the sterilization of cats is laughing with us. When I heard you talking, I thought it was a April 1 joke. That's no way to work. We are already getting a lot of criticism in a number of areas and we would now be mixing or linking these things, in the name of animal welfare. Soon we'll talk about the banker's oath. That's work on a level. In this respect, Parliament is doing a good job, but your link is simply to be in favour of GAIA. They will already vote for you, don't worry. You will not win a vote, but you will ridicule Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u54	Mr Van Rompuy, I find the debate, as you conduct it, unworthy of Parliament. You say that this is not a social problem, but that is really not true. In large cities, it becomes a major social problem. I can take you to certain places to show that it is absolutely necessary to sterilize cats, if not, to go to a health disaster. So it's not just anything. As far as the merger is concerned, I fully agree with you. That link is not really possible, but I have been in Parliament for nine years now and I have learned that the majority, and certainly the government you were in, did almost nothing else. Amendments were tabled to draft laws which had nothing to do with the subject. So I think it's nice to say now that this is an electoral stunt. It was indeed a question, but not only from GAIA. It is certainly also a question of many large cities, which are faced with this problem. People are now required to sterilize cats. We ask that the cost be reduced so that everyone can meet that obligation. I fully understand the Members who say that it is difficult to do it that way. That's right. I can understand it, but distress breaks the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u55	Mr Van Rompuy, I'm going to make a confession: I'm really a cat madam. Ever since I was little, I've been surrounded by cats. I had to get rid of my cat because my youngest son is allergic to it. The cat is sitting with my neighbor now, which means I still have them with me a little bit, and yet I don't. I know the problems of our local authorities. In your last few weeks as a Member of Parliament, I wouldn't impose it on you. That would be a dishonor to one pressure group that has asked a question. I shall be joining Mr Temmerman in that regard. This is a problem that many asylums, veterinarians and local authorities are struggling with. They are all looking for a way to deal with this problem. The obligation to sterilize has been approved in all regions. There are people with not such a big wallet or who don't handle their pets so thoughtfully. One can then use the stick each time or think about the root. I started by saying that this is a strange combination. We are at the end of the legislature. There may still be a number of possibilities if there is no consensus on the amendment now to deal with this quickly. I also said earlier that I'm a bookworm. There's no way I'm going to stop the other initiative. That's not my intention. But I don't want to miss a chance either. I would like to reach out to colleagues from the former majority who have expressed the same commitment to make this possible, because then we will not have to wait until the next legislature. There are a number of possibilities. The day is still long. Let's sit together for a minute. Before we have to vote on the amendment, perhaps other things can happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that as a party we certainly agree with the principle. In order to solve the problem, I propose to you as a working method, and I ask colleagues here to think about transforming the amendment into a new legislative proposal. We can then consider this in plenary today. In this way, this problem is not linked to the digital publications and cannot in any way jeopardise the other, because I do not think that this is the intention of anyone. In this way, we can seek a majority for this. I therefore propose that the amendment be withdrawn and that a new legislative proposal be tabled. It can then be considered whether a majority can be found so that it can be dealt with after the Easter holiday. This seems to me to be the cleanest proposal that does not object to either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u57	I would ask the authors, Mrs Almaci, Mr Gilkinet and Mrs Temmerman, whether the amendment will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u58	Mr President, we will put ourselves together and withdraw the amendment as soon as there is a new proposal. Then we can take that into consideration. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u59	The amendment remains?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u60	Until the other text is ready and we can submit it. Once that has been done, we will withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u61	Mr President, yesterday we agreed that the Finance Committee would no longer meet. I think that yesterday we finished all the work we had to do and that we will now have the discussions in plenary. I do not intend to convene a special committee in the next few weeks to get the sterilization of cats approved before decomposition. Mr Van Biesen is a man of good will, I am sometimes a man of good will, but sometimes one has to dare. This issue has never been raised in the Finance Committee. Mrs Almaci, I do not remember any discussion about the sterilization of cats. That may be a social problem, but I do not call on the committee to discuss it during the Easter holidays. That's not serious. That's just to give the impression that that's why you're worried. This may be a social problem, but Parliament does not serve that purpose. Mr Calvo, within a few months you will be in power. The Greens have a great chance of joining the board and having a majority. Then you have five years to settle the matter of cat sterilisation in Parliament. I am not playing a game of convening the Finance Committee only in the coming weeks. The problems are a little too serious for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u62	I understand that the amendment is being retained and that we can conclude the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u63	Mr President, Mr Almaci wanted to comment on this point. You closed the meeting a little too soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u64	I apologize. Mrs Almaci, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u65	Mr President, I do not want to rush the debate. Mr Van Rompuy, you know me better than you are trying to put me away. I propose that we exchange views in the margins of this plenary session, which is still going to take a long time. I have no intention of ruining anyone's Easter vacation. I've got plenty of work on the Easter vacation. I have no intention of doing to the Finance Commission things I don't want to do to them. This matter is relatively simple. The day is still long. I propose that we look at what is feasible and what is not, in Parliament's wings, in all the ways of manifesting in this hemisphere. I think this will be more constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u66	Mr President, it is now clear that most people here have expressed their views on the content. This is indeed an important social concern. Our Minister for Animal Welfare naturally shares that concern. There is a risk that we will use this to hypothesize the digital publishing bill, because this proposal has already covered the whole of Europe. That is why I would like to make an alternative proposal. We have just discussed the proposal for a VAT reduction on bicycles. Mr President, to what extent is it possible to reopen the discussion of the proposal on the reduction of VAT on bicycles and to put it there as an amendment? The advantage is that the VAT reduction law on bicycles is legally correct in that the law does not enter into force until the European Commission has given the green light. In this way your amendment can be incorporated, it will be adopted today and will enter into force as soon as the European Commission gives the green light. In this way we have taken the concerns to heart, we have created the possibility at the federal level, there is a solution to the issue and we can continue without hypotheizing the current proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u67	Mr Dedecker, I must disappoint you. We cannot reopen the discussion on the proposal on the VAT reduction for bicycles. There will therefore have to be another way. I think we will hear it in the course of the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u68	Mr President, I am not asking to speak on this point, because one feels the wisdom and the constructive atmosphere in the plenum in order to achieve something. I am now concerned with another point. I note that we will perhaps be able to consider the list of constitutional articles which may be revised. I have been asking for some form of dialogue between Parliament and government for some time. The Prime Minister has always held that back for the time being. In the meantime, however, I note that the Prime Minister is tweeting about this, while we will meet here in his absence on this topic. He announced on Twitter that he had a major problem with the list approved in Parliament. Let me be very clear, our group is proud of that list, but we will try, for example, to remove the proposal to declare Article 1 subject to revision, because we do not think that is necessary. On the contrary, it brings with it a lot of risks. However, the Prime Minister attacks Parliament's list via Twitter, while he does not want to engage in dialogue. That shows very little respect. Mr President, can you contact the Prime Minister to get a hold of his presence during that debate? It makes sense for me to give you time to look into that with the Prime Minister. If necessary, our group will table a motion on the basis of Rule 50 at the beginning of the afternoon meeting in order to request the Prime Minister. I cannot accept that he does not want to talk to us about this, but at the same time he is engaging in dialogue with the rest of the world on Twitter. I therefore ask you to first try to take my point constructively. Otherwise, if the Prime Minister does not agree, we will table a motion at the beginning of the sitting. You can then take this into account when regulating the work. So colleagues know that after the questions there could be a vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u69	I have two answers. First, we will contact the Prime Minister's cabinet to invite him. Secondly, I must tell you that you must submit such a motion in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u70	Mr President, this motion is subject to reservation, subject to the Prime Minister's reply. If he promises spontaneously, we do not have to vote on it. So I would first like to give you the opportunity to settle this constructively with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u71	Okay, whatever's necessary will happen. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u72	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3619/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3619/3) Het inscription in Dutch was modified by the committee in "wetsbladt om wijziging van het royale act nr. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at such rates as regards certain publications.' "Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community" 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services at such rates as regards certain publications.' The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u73	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u74	Sustained: the amendment. Reserved: the amendment. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u76	Amendments were announced - to the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Isabelle Galant and Nele Lijnen, Mr Franck Wilrycx, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) laying down various provisions on economics, No. 3570/5 and - to the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Benoît Friart and Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Nele Lijnen) amending book I " Definitions," book XV "Legal enforcement" and replacing book IV "Protection of competition" in the Code of Economic Law, No. 3621/1. Amendments announced - to the draft law (Ms Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Isabelle Galant and Nele Lijnen, Mr Frank Wilrycx, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) on various provisions on the economy, No 3570/5 and - to the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers, MM. Benoît Friart and Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Leen Dierick en Nele Lijnen) amending Book I "Definitions", Book XV "Application of the Law" and replacing Book IV "Protection of Competition" in the Code of Economic Law, No. 3621/1. I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Business, Science Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, the National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u77	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u78	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Steven Vandeput, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u79	Mr President, as ecologists, we are particularly concerned about both the proper collection of tax – some techniques can help FPS Finance staff to carry it out correctly – and the situation of some taxpayers. This situation has been highlighted in the regular reports of the Federal Ombudsman. It is concerned about the somewhat over-automatic recovery methods, with very damaging consequences for some taxpayers who are not given sufficient time to recover from an administrative point of view or to negotiate a sustainable clearance plan with the FPS Finances. This can have very heavy chain consequences for the people concerned and can turn them into dramatic situations of extreme poverty. This is a bill that has been transformed into a bill, like other legislation that will be analyzed today. We have suggested that the applicants consult this office of Parliament, the Federal Ombudsman, to seek his opinion on the situations which he himself has identified, including at hearings in the Finance Committee. This has not been achieved. That's too bad. It may be necessary to do so a posteriori to verify whether differential treatment with respect to the type of tax debt and the type of taxpayer is not desirable. That is why we have not supported this text in committee. Similarly today, we will abstain in the hope that, if we have not taken the necessary time before the vote on this text, it will be assessed and, if necessary, corrected to protect the most fragile taxpayers from a perhaps too violent and over-automatic approach to recovering tax debts, with sometimes terrible consequences for those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u80	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u81	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3625/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3625/3) The bill has 139 articles. The bill has 139 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u82	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u83	Mr President, I have heard that Mr Calvo has just spoken on the presence of the Prime Minister in the debate on the Constitution. There are good reasons for this, and our group will certainly support it. However, I would just like to point out that at 11.01 a.m., which is one minute after the deadline for the submission of topical questions, the Prime Minister sent a Twitter message that is particularly interesting. He said: 'The list of constitutional articles, which the committee has declared subject to revision, is Community madness. I will, from the government's point of view, oppose the opening up of Community articles." I repeat, that Twitter message dates back to 11.01 hours. This means that we have not been able to take this into account when submitting our current questions. I think that's a major problem. Let us be honest, what the Prime Minister says there is very far-reaching. Over the last few weeks, colleagues from Green and Dewael from the Open Vld have asked for a text and explanation, which they did not receive at that time. Now something is being put forward here via Twitter which is very important to the Chamber. That is why I would ask that we consider this issue and, for example, that the possibility of submitting questions be reopened. After all, between 11.00 a.m. and the beginning of the oral questions, something is now being done for which Question Time is intended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u84	Mr President, Mr De Roover, you have missed a part of the plenary, but that is normal, it is certainly not possible to attend everything in such a long plenary session. I also touched the issue just now when I read the Twitter message. You know that we differ on a great many issues. You want to declare all the articles open. You also want to declare Article 1 open. We will soon try to find a majority to delete it. I see opportunities there too, when certain groups are considering it. Like you, I think that this Twitter message from the Prime Minister is totally inappropriate, especially since he has been refusing dialogue with Parliament for a long time. That is why I have just asked the President to contact the Prime Minister to attend the debate on the Constitution. I think it is even more interesting that he attends the debate than we ask questions during Question Time. The chairman will be in touch. If the Prime Minister does not want to come, there is a motion from us to bring forward the Prime Minister on the basis of Article 50. I think this is the best way for Parliament to send a message.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u85	So, Mr De Roover, your proposal and that of Mr Calvo are different.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u86	Mr President, I also indicated earlier that I support Mr Calvo in his proposal. However, attending a debate does not even oblige the Prime Minister to participate actively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u87	Mr De Roover, I understand your question. I can and will respond to that. I propose that the various groups which wish to amend something on this point should withdraw a question and instead submit another question, which can do so until 12:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u88	Mr President, I continue to support Mr Calvo's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u89	Moreover, the communication or question to the Prime Minister's cabinet has already left.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u90	Mr President, I just wanted to ask the following question. Can the parties raise a different theme until 12:00?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u91	No. They can agree with the point if they wish to withdraw a question submitted and submit a question on the constitutional revision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u92	Mr President, that is another question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u93	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u94	Mr President, can a question be replaced by a new one?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u95	It may be replaced by a question on the subject of constitutional reform alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u96	Secondly, Mr President, I would like to ask the following question. We will await the motion on the Prime Minister's requested presence in the debate on the revision of the Constitution. In the past, it was obvious that he was following such a debate. At the time, however, most of the debate had been initiated by the government on the basis of a list submitted by the government itself. It was quite obvious that in that case the Prime Minister not only followed the debate but also actively accompanied it. In this case, I would simply like to ask the following question. If the Prime Minister is present during the debate that we are going to have and we are going to discuss the subject again at 2 p.m. during Question Time, is it not a question of double use? The twitter message that has been launched is completely out of my mind and is something the Prime Minister should not do at a time when one of the three actors is in the process of completing his process in this area. We will see what the government will do after Chamber and Senate have completed their trial. So this twitter message is misplaced. However, I am not in favour of having the debate during Question Time at 2 p.m. and then, if you have confirmation that the Prime Minister himself is coming to the discussion of the Constitution, to repeat it. I would argue today for as much efficiency as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u97	I would like to make two points. Firstly, the Prime Minister will be present at Question Time anyway. Secondly, there was already a question and bonne et due form on the declaration for the revision of the Constitution and the position of the nuclear cabinet, as it is written here. The question was put by Mr Vuye. In other words, I insist that until 12:00 a.m. political groups ask if one of their questions can be withdrawn and replace it with a question that is in line with Mr Vuye's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u98	In order to organise it somewhat logically and not to work too strangely, I propose that my motion be dealt with only after the Prime Minister's answer to the current question on the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u99	Okay, that's a deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u100	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3650: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Luk Van Biesen, Benoît Dispa, Eric Van Rompuy, Peter Vanvelthoven, Ahmed Laaouej - 2748: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u101	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The reporter is Mr. Deseyn. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for long. We have worked for a very long and serious time on the legislative proposal that has been submitted here, which has been signed by many. I would like to thank all those who supported this proposal in the Optima and Panama committees. From these committees we have worked on the implementation of the legislative proposal. The initial bill came from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. We managed to come up with a supported proposal in committee with a lot of work and many consultations before and behind the scenes, which was also supported by colleagues from Open Vld, the Socialists and CD&V. I am very pleased to note that we have decided on a measure, albeit not a panacea, but not merely a symbolic measure: it can contribute to the debate on good governance and restoring confidence in the banking sector. In this way, he can once again give professional pride to many people who today give the best of themselves in the financial sector. Today we have reached an end and can vote on this proposal to introduce a banker's oath. The way in which we move forward, namely to let Febelfin develop it, also gives the sector itself room for manoeuvre and respects both the recommendations of the two committees and the intention to work together to develop a better financial system. This is a small but important element in the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u103	Mr President, we were able to vote unanimously in committee on this. This is indeed the implementation of the Optima Committee. Several colleagues also argued in favour of this in the Panama Commission. We have also consulted with the sector, but unfortunately it has failed to provide us with a clear alternative. That was also the case with the Football Association, for which we also had a number of proposals. In part, they have not been able to achieve this in their own circle. We had to be clear at the end of the legislative period and therefore adopted the proposal. However, Articles 14 and 15 state that the entry into force of this law must take place in consultation with credit institutions on its implementation and that the King determines the entry into force of that law by royal decree, established after consultation with the Council of Ministers. For the sector, therefore, there is a demand for a proposal to be put forward itself, but if the sector fails to do so, then what is now in the hands of a subsequent government may be implemented by royal decision. So Parliament does not unilaterally impose a dictatorship on the sector. For some six months now, the sector has had the opportunity, knowing Parliament's opinion, to develop an alternative. In my view, we need to adopt the text before us today. An opinion from the Council of State seems important to me, but there was no time left to do so, so that will also be for the next legislature. The text before us today is a text of consensus and I hope that the sector will respond to it. If this is finally implemented, I hope that the opinion of the Council of State will first be sought, since it is a delicate matter. With CD&V we will at least approve the text before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u104	Mr President, as has already been said, the proposal before us today also responds to an important social consensus. The remaining cowboy practices must be eliminated and the text before us is a very good way of doing so. The question arises as to whether it is the right way. In fact, the sector has proposed a number of well-functioning initiatives, including those based on the British model. The proposal of the sector does not so much endorse the individual banker as in the present proposal, but rather the culture within the institution. The proposal now before us may in itself represent a step forward, but at the same time it is somewhat a preliminaries of what the sector itself wants to achieve. I hope that the proposal before us does not make an initiative by the sector impossible, but as I fear it a little, our group will abstain from the vote. Nevertheless, I agree with Mr Van Rompuy's comments on the necessary consultations within the sector before it is ratified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u105	Mrs Almaci has already spoken very well on behalf of our group. I would like to remind Mr Dedecker that during the last parliamentary term we were part of the Dexia Commission together. We were well placed to see the damage that mismanagement, strategic mischoice and excessive risk-taking of the banking sector could have on public finances and even on the stability of a state such as ours. Therefore, our ongoing concern is to act to reduce this risk and to strengthen accountability in the head of bank managers, to improve the fundamental rules applicable to the banking sector and to strengthen supervision in this sector. This bank oath is one of the pieces of the puzzle, one of the levers to activate to achieve the goal. It is not the only one: one felt a certain resistance on the part of Febelfin, despite a dialogue that was intended to be constructive. We believe, however, that we must move forward and we obviously welcome the consensus that has almost emerged - the N-VA has no intention of supporting the initiative to vote on this text later today. Similar initiatives will be required in the coming legislature. Here I will formulate two priorities which remain those of the ecologists. The first concerns the total and clear separation of banking activities, between the most risky activities, market activities and the activity of deposit banks, which is essential for our citizens as well as for the real economy. The second priority is to leave the management of Belfius Bank in the hands of the Federal State. It is now made up of 100 % public capital and must remain so, through a very clear management contract as to the prudence that must be exercised in this context. There is a need to ensure an orientation towards the real economy, towards the financing of the transition, towards service to local authorities and associations. The current government has been tempted - but has not succeeded - to carry this public bank on the stock exchange today. Fortunately, it has not done so in the light of market and political circumstances. In the coming months and years, we hope to find partners that will help us to further transform this Belfius bank and that will contribute, together with a public market player alongside private actors, to the further consolidation of the banking sector. The vote on the bank oath today will be a step in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Group will support this banker's oath. Moreover, it is a recommendation from both the Panama Papers Committee and the Optima Committee. We have liked to work with the Christian Democrats and the Greens to come to this text of consensus. We are pleased that today the banker's oath can still be approved. The reason why this had to be approved during this term of office is, after all, also an indication of the sector itself. The sector must also see this bill as a certain expression of fear by this Parliament. Indeed, there is a fear that new products will be re-produced and sold which will be packaged several times. The same was true at the time for mortgage products. All packaging ultimately brings a product on the market that does not correspond at all to the actual price. We must draw everyone's attention to this problem in the banking sector. They must accept their own responsibilities. Any financial intermediary, and not just the banking institutions and their staff, must be clearly aware that there may be problems for which they are jointly responsible. The symbol of the banker's oath is therefore much more than just a symbol. It's a clue to the sector. It is to alert the sector to a problem. We warn them not to go into a financial crisis again. That's the essence of this story. I hope that Febelfin and the banks have understood this message clearly. I also hope that they will work with us to work out this banker's oath in concrete terms before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u107	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u108	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3650/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3650/4) The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u109	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, we have been able to contact the chairman of the Business Commission. We agreed to convene this committee, on the amendments I mentioned 15 minutes ago, in the Damian Chamber at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u110	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sarah Smeyers, Frank Wilrycx, Luk Van Biesen, Peter Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Steven Vandeput, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u112	Mr President, I would like to apologize to the chief proposer of the bill. Unfortunately, our good colleague Sarah Smeyers buried her father yesterday, which is why I'm taking this from her. As you know, the acquisition of your own property has become quite expensive in recent years because of the very high rise in real estate prices. A number of governments are trying to remedy this by means of a legal instrument, in particular the debt instrument. This means that an owner-seller does not sell the land, but provides the land for a minimum period of 27 years and a maximum of 99 years. As a result, the price of the land falls or even lapses completely because it is not sold or transferred. The instrument of land use is often used in redevelopment projects or restoration projects of beguinage courts, monasteries, school buildings, culturally valuable buildings, mostly owned by a government. I think about the beguinages in Hoogstraten, Turnhout and the buildings in Root Colony and Merksplas. In order to preserve the cultural heritage, the landowner wishes to remain the owner of the building in those specific cases. A right of residence shall then be established on the immovable property, where the land is given into lease with the dwelling or building or only the dwelling or building. Where the tenant carries out renovation works, he wishes, of course, to recover them pro rata in the case of the transfer of his lease. To date, he has to pay 50% of personal income tax at that transfer price, which makes it very difficult or even financially impossible in practice to transfer the property at a divorce, change of work or at an older age when moving to a rest home. If he had been a full owner of the property, there would usually be no personal tax on the added value. We are therefore satisfied that residents and owners of a property will be able to transfer their property without that high tax bill. This will certainly benefit the viability of these projects when new tenants move into their housing under lease. I would like to thank everyone for their constructive cooperation on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u113	Mr President, I too am grateful that a broad majority has been found for this bill by Mr Smeyers, to whom I would like to express my deepest sympathy for the loss of her father. This bill eliminates an anomaly. When a private individual, who owns the land, achieves an added value on the construction of a property and sells this property, he happily pays the property but does not pay any added value tax. If you do that on a lease, that's usually about state watch houses, beguineries and the like, then you have to find an investor who wants to fix it up and put it on the market. He pays a tax on diverse income on the added value of the houses. Fortunately, we have said today that these two identical sales are now treated in the same way as taxation. There will therefore no longer be any added value tax due. This will undoubtedly stimulate the sector of renovating certain older buildings owned by municipalities or OCMWs and others. They can be made available to owners or developers who can renovate the property in full compliance with the conditions. The elimination of anomalies is also an important task for Parliament, even if it is at one of the last sessions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u114	Mr President, after a number of discussions in committee, we approved the proposal. We welcome the proposed anomaly in the context of the transfer pricing and the sale of the transfer pricing duty. There was also a dossier with Minister Geens concerning better business law and the adaptation of the Civil Code with a view to a more harmonised framework for business law, in which there would also be a concession to the easier application of lease agreements for example to renovate and revive old sites. Mrs Smeyers has also taken an initiative on fiscal adjustment. After consultation, we reached an agreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u115	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (696/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (696/11) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u118	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2601: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Benoît Dispa, Vanessa Matz - 1210: Fabienne Winckel, Ahmed Laaouej, Karine Lalieux, Özlem Özen, Gwenaëlle Grovonius - 2705: Fabienne Winckel, Ahmed Laaouej, Karine Lalieux, Özlem Özen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Gilkinet, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u120	Mr President, I can only welcome the proposal before us. In 2014 we increased the amount that someone can earn to be entitled to maintenance money from 1 350 to 1 800 euros. Today's proposal stipulates that we have supported a joint amendment to the effect that parents who are entitled to maintenance money and need the advance may have an income of EUR 2 200, not EUR 2 500, as originally proposed, but slightly lower. This proposal will strengthen single-parent families, of which we all know that they are also financially extremely vulnerable. Getting maintenance money often makes the difference between ending up in poverty or being able to survive. In this way, vulnerable families can be supported. We know that one in four children lives in single-parent families. It is therefore an important step forward, which does not mean that the recovery of advances is and will continue to be important. There was also discussion about this. We note that the recovery of the contributions due is on the increase. It is important to continue to focus on this. On the one hand, therefore, we are ensuring that single-parent families have less financial difficulties by receiving maintenance money, on the other hand, the recovery of such maintenance money must be done in an efficient manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u121	Mr President, I rise to the rostrum because it is a very important text among those that we have been able to unblock in recent weeks. That makes us happy. Collaboration has been possible since the government was in day-to-day and minority business. This has made it possible to unblock essential texts. We've already mentioned a few of them today. There will be more in the last plenary session. This text is very important since it mainly concerns women and single-parent families. Putting in place a maintenance claims service and legislation in this area has been a major social breakthrough of the rainbow government. It is not enough to have a framework, legislation and services: they must also be operated by providing sufficient resources at FPS level Finance for this essential service by properly organising the consultation. The legislation provides for an accompanying committee of which some colleagues such as Mr. Van Biesen and of which Mrs Gerkens was also a member. There was an annual reporting requirement to be able to keep track of the changing needs that have not always been met, but things are, I hope, getting back in order. There is a need for a much more efficient recovery of debts owed. We supported an amendment to the legislation in this area. The last piece of the puzzle is the raising of the revenue ceiling that determines whether or not there is intervention of the SECAL (Receivables Service). It is a matter of justice against women, already victims of the glass ceiling in our society. Pension measures put them at a very high disadvantage under this legislature. They are often victims of fathers who do not assume their financial responsibilities in the upbringing of children. Some have wanted to highlight the cost of the measure, which we have contested since the fight against child poverty has a direct effect on the families concerned. It is therefore a particularly effective measure to meet one of the objectives that the whole assembly says it shares. On the other hand, this is a good deal of progress. Therefore, if the debt recovery system is more efficient, and it has become more efficient thanks to the legal changes previously made, the net cost to public finances is particularly limited. Ideally, the fairest would be to remove any ceiling, to intervene in all situations where maintenance claims are not paid. That remains our goal. Here, on the basis of the proposal of the colleagues of the CDH, which I welcome, a compromise has been reached. The amount foreseen by the original signatories of the bill had to be reduced in order for other colleagues in the former majority to agree to support the text. We have planned – which did not exist – an indexation of this amount of 2,200 euros. It's just justice. It was a much-anticipated step. I have received many positive reactions from the families and especially from the women concerned. We will enthusiastically vote on this text, hoping to find, under the next legislature, a Minister of Finance who is also interested in this important issue and who will provide the maintenance service with sufficient human and regulatory means to carry out the most correctly and completely its work essential for equality between men and women and also for the fight against child poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjustment we are making on the proposal of the CdH Group means that the income ceiling for the advance on alimony when it is not paid is greatly increased. A few weeks ago, we adapted an important element on the DAVO. What's the biggest problem? That's not the payment system. Our group very much wants the amount and access to the system to be preserved so that those concerned receive the maintenance to which they are entitled. The State is making an important effort through the DAVO, because it is our wish that the right holders receive their alimony. Enlargement will allow more people to use it. According to DAVO, it would be 11 000 files. Of course, that's not a small amount. We have already dealt with an important element for a few weeks, namely recovery. What, however, is the biggest problem with DAVO? That is that the advance payments are rarely and difficult to recover. Mr Gilkinet has already made an allusion to it. I, and Mrs Gerkens after me, have been able to experience in the DAVO as a Member of Parliament that the main problem was to recover the advances paid. Often those who are unwilling to pay alimony are no longer available or no longer to be found by the Belgian State. That is why I have recently asked for a state of affairs and whether the advances can be recovered better now. Well, it turns out that in the period 2015-2018, i.e. four years apart, the Belgian State paid 113 million in advances on alimony, while recovering 46 million of them, which was an increase. About 40% of advances were recovered. This also means, of course, that 60% will not be recovered. Last time we adapted a sleeve to that by making provision for the possibility of recovering more quickly from whom the alimony should be paid. We are, of course, in favour of raising the ceiling today and increasing accessibility. For example, we are helping 11 000 people who are entitled to alimony today. This, of course, has a budgetary consequence, as long as we are unable to recover the advances from those who had to pay them. Our plea is therefore that we proceed with the dossier so that children can receive alimony and grow up in normal circumstances, but also that the State is given all the means to recover the advance from the person liable for maintenance. Under this clear condition, we have declared our agreement to approve the proposed substantial increase in the upper income limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u123	Mr President, in this matter, I must also welcome the initiatives taken by Mr Dispa. This debate took place on the basis of legislative proposals tabled by the PS Group, but also by the CDH. They were both designed to change the ceiling below which SECAL's intervention was granted. The modalities were different, but the objective was the same. We quickly realized that this ceiling of EUR 1 800 which currently exists was far too low, because it did not cover the realities experienced by a number of people and, let us say, a majority of women, who do not see the payment of maintenance payments coming up and therefore find themselves in very serious situations of precariousness. We have increased this amount from EUR 1 800 to EUR 2 200, a compromise point which we have reached in the Committee on Finance and the Budget; I have no doubt that we will be able to raise this amount further if a majority can emerge in the coming months. However, raising this amount from €1,800 to €2,200 already covers more cases and, therefore, meets the needs experienced by these families, very often single parents, who find themselves in an extremely difficult financial situation, unable to have sufficient resources due to a defaulting debtor. Mr President, here again we welcome the spirit of consensus that has prevailed in the Finance Committee and that has made it possible to solve a problem in practice. I recall that we were asked by a number of institutions, notably the League of Families, which had pointed to the difficulty of this insufficient ceiling of 1,800 euros unindexed. I have also suggested and obtained that the amount of €2,200 be indexed in the future, to match the evolution of the cost of living, to ensure that there is a direct link between this sum and the evolution of the cost of living. The PS Group welcomes this and also welcomes the fact that it has been able to join other groups in moving forward in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u124	Mr President, at the risk of further delay to my colleagues on the left, my speech will also be somewhat on the one hand. We can of course agree with the social concerns. Too many men, women are in the minority here, do not take up their responsibilities and do not pay their alimony after their divorce, although it was indeed imposed. This is, of course, a form of irresponsibility which cannot be tolerated. Of course one should also do something for the other side. Raising the income limit is an option, but the question is, of course, how far one can go and what its impact is. We are now going to increase it to EUR 2 200, to index it annually. For comparison, two thirds of Belgian families submitting a joint tax return today have a net income that is less than 2 200 euros per month. Surely there is a certain discrepancy there. The following has also been mentioned several times by colleagues: the collections by the DAVO are far too low. There's a serious tooth to be added to that. They're about 30 percent. This means that 70% of the advances paid by the DAVO to alimony will not be recovered from the person who should pay them. That's way too much. However, this can also lead to a perverse side effect. Couples who stay together together are jointly responsible for the cost of their children, they provide for their own livelihood. In the event of a divorce, that costs for a piece will pass on to society. I do not want to go so far as to say that this proposal is implicitly promoting divorces, which seems to me to be too short-sighted, but to some extent it is a re-introducing the price of love, as we have had in the case of social benefits. Here it is in a way re-emerging. This is a form of caution which should be taken into account. In view of the important concern, but also of the side effects and the limits, our group will abstain from doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u125	Mr President, I am very pleased to replace Mr Dispa, who had co-signed this text in the Committee on Finance. He asked me to take this opportunity to congratulate the President on this, thanks to which a consensus was reached on a text of which the full interest and importance were recalled. The rate of unpaid maintenance is close to 40%. It was recalled that single-parent families were the most affected by this phenomenon. This is why SECAL has been set up, but its intervention ceilings have appeared to be inadequate in our time. The threshold was therefore raised to EUR 2,200, following the work of the Finance Committee. As Mr. Van Biesen, it is not 11,000 people, families, women or men who are entitled to food aid, but 11,000 children who are affected and who will benefit from this essential aid. It is all the more useful – all studies show – that the risk of falling into poverty is twice as high for single-parent families. The House has demonstrated intelligence in working to reduce this risk of child poverty in our country. However, such a measure does not cover all aspects of unpaid food relief. I would hope that, in the coming legislature, a bill that I have tabled can, fortunately, complement this mechanism that we are about to vote on. In this case, it is intended to allow the judge who makes a decision to impose a maintenance contribution to make the delegation of sums to the employer possible, from the moment of his judgment and provided the conditions are met. This not only avoids recourse to SECAL, but also empowers the ill-paying parent, who knows that he or she will not escape his or her responsibilities if he or she has the financial means to honour his or her obligations properly. If we can agree on such a text, it will be a further step in favour of single-parent families and the fight against child poverty. It is therefore with pleasure that the cdH group was able to see the consensus reached in the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u126	Mr President, SECAL had already been strengthened under this legislature. Recovery was allowed through the automation of the enforceability order, which is a very good thing. The importance of SECAL in supporting families and fighting poverty is well known. It is true, as Mr Brotcorn said, that the increase in the ceiling to EUR 2 200 concerns 11,000 children. As Mr Laaouej said, this amount is also indexed. This is very good news and we will support this text, which is in line with support for families and the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u127	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2601/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2601/7) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs de Coster-Bauchau, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u131	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3586/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3586/3) The title in French has been amended by the committee in draft law amending the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and relating to the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control with regard to the protection of data relating to dosimetric monitoring". Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in - Bill amending the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and relating to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency with regard to the protection of data relating to dosimetric monitoring". The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u132	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u133	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3547: Franky Demon, Veerle Heeren, Katja Gabriels, Sandrine De Crom, Conseil Degroote, Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Philippe Pivin, Françoise Schepmans - 3448: Conseil Degroote, Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u134	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Fernandez Fernandez, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u135	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3547/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3547/7) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u136	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we have returned two amendments to the Committee on Defence this morning to have them dealt with today and then returned to plenary. The committee will meet this afternoon in Room Brel, after the oral questions. There will be a meeting of the National Defence Commission after the oral questions in the Brel Room.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u137	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2873: Eric Thiébaut, Laurent Devin, André Frédéric, Fabienne Winckel, Nawal Ben Hamou, Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Emir Kir, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Gautier Calomne - 2742: Gautier Calomne, Kattrin Jadin, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Stéphanie Thoron - 3099: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u138	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs de Coster-Bauchau and Mr Heeren and Mr Degroote, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u139	Mr President, we are, of course, very pleased that we can approve this bill today in the Chamber. We had already tabled this bill in the previous legislature, and now it will hopefully be adopted this evening. A number of administrative documents, including in the National Register but also at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, still use the offensive terms "out of the real separated" and "widower/widower" which are often unnecessary. These terms are unnecessarily offensive to those involved. The general rule now becomes that these terms disappear from the administrative documents except in cases where it is necessary and the person concerned also effectively chooses to mention the civil status in the document. That right of choice is important because it can also be a memento for a person if a term as a widow or widower is still present in a document. I would like to thank the colleagues with whom we have been able to work very well to bring this proposal to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go back to this bill for very long, as it has already been widely presented and, at the moment, by my colleague. However, let me add to what has just been said. First of all, the text as amended in the Committee on External Relations is the result of constructive and positive collaboration between the various authors of three bills from the N-VA, the PS and the MR-Open Vld. These three proposals dealt with the same subject matter. This parliamentary work demonstrates a genuine common will to move beyond partisan divisions to meet our common objective, an objective for the benefit of the citizens concerned. With a view not to prejudice the rights of third parties or to create undue complications under private international law, our proposal for a law, as finalised and voted in committee, provides that the King shall draw up a list of documents for which the communication of the civil status of the citizen is necessary. Within this list, a distinction will now be made between documents where the maintenance of specific records of divorce or widowhood is strictly necessary and those where it is not. It is precisely in this latter category that the communication of a state of divorce or a state of widowhood will be made at the request of the person concerned by the mention "single". For the Liberal I am, giving everyone the freedom of choice was essential. It was not possible to force people who attached importance to their status as divorced or widowed to erase it. A royal order will subsequently have to specify the terms of the request. Moreover, apart from the documents included in the King's list, our bill, as finally amended in committee, also provides that the documents produced by the authorities having access to the National Register of Natural Persons or the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale will not mention the civil status of the persons concerned. In my view and in my group's view, this text is a symbolic but real step forward. It tends to respond to an increasing demand for citizens directly affected in their private life, an intimate sphere, by this situation which they sometimes simply do not want. As I have had the opportunity to repeat in committee, in a democratic society the symbols are important. It is not a question of abducting rights to a person, but rather of offering additional freedom, a new freedom to those who suffer in their daily lives from not benefiting from them. The testimonies and returns are numerous and positive. It seems to me that my colleagues, like Mr Thiébaut for example, can testify to this and also confirm it. Since the filing of these various proposals and their media coverage, many divorced or widowed people had been waiting for this dossier to be put into practice. I am pleased that we have been able to achieve - certainly in the course of this Parliament - this proposal for a common law and that, today or tomorrow, depending on the length of our work, like the vote in committee, we can adopt this proposal by a very large majority. Colleagues, thank you for your attention and wish the new singles a long life.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u141	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u142	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2873/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2873/6) The title was amended by the Committee in the proposal for a law on the change of the entry "from the genuinely divorced person' and "widower/widower' in the administrative acts'. The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the reference to "divorced" and "widow/widow" in administrative acts". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u143	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u144	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Philippe Pivin, Katja Gabriëls, Sandrine De Crom, Franky Demon, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Françoise Schepmans.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u145	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Emir Kir and Mrs Sarah Smeyers, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u146	Mr President, I would just like to say very briefly that our group will not support the proposal. After all, it entails unlawful discrimination. Parliament simply wants to grant an exemption from fees to one category, namely journalists. Other private players, such as security companies, simply don't get to work. That is therefore a distinction or discrimination with which we do not agree. That is why we do not support the proposal, as we had already said in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u147	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u148	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3575/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3575/5) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u150	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3645: Franky Demon, Sonja Becq - 3647: Alain Top, David Geerts, Dirk Van der Maelen, Karin Temmerman, Monica De Coninck, Hans Bonte, Maya Detiège.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u151	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs De Crom and Mr Degroote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u152	Mr President, we refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u153	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u154	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3645/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3645/4) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u155	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u156	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: Els Van Hoof - 2562: Els Van Hoof - 2987: Hans Bonte, Annick Lambrecht, Peter Vanvelthoven - 3106: Peter Vanvelthoven, Annick Lambrecht, Meryame Kitrir, Karin Temmerman Els Van Hoof - 3239: Els Van Hoof - 3245: Vincent Van Peteghem, Brecht Vermeulen, Luc Gustin, Patrick Dewael Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u157	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Ms Özlem Özen and Mr Christian Brotcorne, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u158	Mr President, the work on the draft law before us has been a long one; it has gone a long way and there are many things linked to it. It was supposed to be finished by last summer, but better late than never. The challenge was and is great and will, unfortunately, always be. The gambling sector has changed a lot in recent years. Long ago, there were only the National Lottery and the casinos. In the last ten years we have seen poker tournaments with hip-dressed people with artists' allures on television. Call games were organized. Meanwhile, the online world is moving fast, so even in games via bootboxes all kinds of games of chance are added. The gambling sector is not immediately welcomed by everyone, on the contrary, and there are reasons for that. Gambling addiction, minors who still can participate in bets or games of chance, people with a living wage or replacement income who invest more money than their monthly income, illegal circuits, money laundering, threat, extortion, non-payment of profits, crime in general, in the gambling sector it all happens. The Gaming Commission has been under very frequent pressure. The feud between the National Lottery and the Gaming Commission is not really conducive to a serene climate. The structure of the Gaming Commission also dates from before the online betting. We have seen those debates also held in the Flemish Parliament, that the performance of the Red Devils at the Football World Championship was combined with a lot of advertising for online betting. As a result, there was also a spectacular increase in online sports betting. The Gaming Commission has a structural shortage of staff, as is shown every year in its annual report. It was clear that something had to be done about this, because the challenges were increasing every year. In 2011, the Gaming Commission had 41 employees, supplemented by 4 members of the federal judicial police and 1 person of the local police. In 2016, this was only 33 more people, while the work had actually increased significantly, almost doubled compared to 2011. The Chairman of the Gaming Commission, Mr Etienne Marique, already complained in September 2017 that the IT service of the Gaming Commission had to deal with only three employees, while she had to follow the gambling sector more and more closely on the internet, because it became much more active there. Also cases of match fixing and gambling on own matches.I refer to the case of Olivier Deschacht. Better follow-up by more staff could also be achieved. On 17 January 2018, Minister Geens replied to an oral question that 20 additional staff would be recruited. We are now almost a year and a half later and not so much has actually changed, even though it was announced again that everything would be dealt with in 2019. Gambling, more and more Belgians are doing it. 64 percent of the population over 18 years of age would have played a game of chance for money. At least, this was demonstrated by a 2016 investigation. The same study clearly showed that almost half a million Belgians fall under the category of problematic or risky players. Problematic or risky players use too much money and, above all, risk one gambling addiction, given their own income. The consequences of gambling addiction cannot be underestimated. In addition to health problems, there are social problems. Gambling problems are also much more difficult to detect than, for example, an alcohol problem. They all lead to very big personal dramas. That is why our group supports the draft law. Gambling or betting must be able to maintain its entertainment value, as long as it remains in the case of innocent applications and within innocent limits. Indeed, we need to bet enough on player protection. We therefore believe that the delivery of certain licences should be better framed. Measures should also be taken to protect young players in particular. Municipalities should also be given more powers for a local approach, which can prove its usefulness alongside a federal approach. We want to add a number of things through the draft law, including the extension of the EPIS or excluded persons information system. From now on, that will be the entrance of the betting offices. The National Lottery and some private betting offices were against. There was a lot of headwind. We have been able to experience this in committee. I myself am not a member of the Committee on Justice, but I followed the draft law on behalf of my group. I have determined the difference in lobby work: I myself have experienced little lobbying work; others all the more. I have said more than once in committee meetings and also in discussions outside that, on the one hand, we are making a fair improvement in the protection of people but, on the other hand, an identical product from the same providers will appear in other places, namely in the newspaper shops. That's not a level playing field. Our group looked at a number of examples from newspaper shops to supermarkets, which want to offer such a product, but with the current draft law remaining outside the scope, thus without EPIS. That's a problem. An additional problem is that there will be a shift not only to the daily merchants but also that there will be mock-up newspapers. More and more we see daily trade cases that are supposed to have a full offer, while it is mainly up to them to do a betting offer. They could theoretically obtain up to 50% of their turnover from bets. They shall be licensed for this purpose for three years. But when will they be checked? That is at the earliest after one and a half years and in a number of cases never. It is therefore very lucrative for people with bad intentions to set up such a trade. Their approach could include the placement of EPIS on appliances, the control of daily deployments and certainly a better definition of what is a daily trade. But that is not the competence of the Justice Commission. That is the responsibility of Economic Affairs. We insist that the technical possibilities are sometimes limited. Offering EPIS on devices would not be technically possible at the moment. We could not add any other measures in the short term, unfortunately, but the challenge remains for the future. It is also necessary to clarify more clearly than at present which department the police will operate in the Game Commission. That has been unclear in the past. There's been a problem with that. It has been found that the federal police and the Gaming Commission sometimes opposed each other rather than working together. In addition, there is the greater impact of cooperation with the local police zones. Therefore, a covenant between the Gaming Commission, the federal police and the local police is of the utmost importance. Then it would be better to follow up who did what in which file and what the state of affairs is. Many discussions were held in the course of the discussions, albeit with varying starting points. We must indeed ask what the starting point for games of chance can be. Is that public health, is that economic principles such as free enterprise, or is that a legal offer that should make illegal practices more difficult? I do not think it is one thing or the other, but we must take all dimensions into account as fundamental principles. That is why we need to go even further in the future and come up with a co-regulation whereby the protection of the player becomes the responsibility of the Gaming Commission but also of any legal provider. We're not ready yet. We already had a headwind on the introduction of EPIS. However, such regulation seems to me to be the right way forward. The work has not yet been completed following the adoption of the present draft law. Sensitisation must continue to be used to ensure that games of chance remain effective and do not become devastating to the families and health of those concerned. Furthermore, we must continue to work on the technological improvement of the EPIS, as I indicated. We have also taken the necessary initiatives to this end, which unfortunately could not be approved by a majority. Even though the drafting of the draft law took a long time, a number of things show that we need to show more ambition in the future than the limited scope that is now being proposed. Political choices must ensure better and equal access for all and a level playing field, which is not always there. I referred to the debate on the shift from sports betting to daily newspapers and fake daily shops. However, we must go even further and in future extend the 1 000 meter rule. We currently have a maximum number of sports betting offices. However, the number of daily business cases is not limited. We should therefore take a similar measure for daily sports betting. Unfortunately, we have failed to deal with the fake daily business by means of proper regulation. The fact that we are now also involving the municipalities and cities in the problem will hopefully be a first step towards better control in this area. Certain products must be checked either by the Gaming Commission or by municipal or regional interventions. However, products from the National Lottery are controlled much less and not in an equal way. Let me give you another example of the daily shops. There sports betting is subject to a ceiling of 200 euros per person per day. That is hardly checked, because there is no identification requirement. However, on products of the National Lottery one can play without any limitation. We also discussed the risk of money laundering of black or criminal money. A study was carried out by the Gaming Commission on this subject, following the fourth European Anti-money laundering directive. We must be aware of the way in which we can deal with this, because at the moment newspaper dealers can identify people if they want to use EUR 1 000, but they are usually smart enough and always remain below that limit and contact friends, acquaintances or others. As a result, money laundering remains very much under the radar. I also repeat that the difference in approach between the National Lottery and the private operators is not healthy. I referred in committee to Great Britain, where the regulator of both, the national lottery and private games of chance, was brought together into one whole. That is not the case with us at all. I have also referred to a chapter in a book by Professor Denis Philippe, which has come time to stop holding onto it and put it together instead of separately. Colleagues, I come to my conclusion. Good is the enemy of the best, but it is impossible to do good for everyone if there are conflicting interests. One cannot dwell on the old because the perfect solution is not offered immediately. There are practical problems, we have tackled a number of them, but the work is not yet finished. We will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed had a very interesting discussion in committee, where we have taken the time to examine the texts very thoroughly. Many amendments have also been tabled, with additions and deletions. Mr Vermeulen has already pointed this out, this is one of those texts that starts to live when they come on the agenda. The subject is beginning to live with those who are wondering what the adoption of the bill or amendment in question means for their annual turnover. Will they have more or less profit? That's basically what it's all about. It is also intended that lobbying should take place. You may have suffered a little less, because you are not an official member of the Justice Commission, but even from the opposition we were approached. I can therefore imagine that members of the majority were even more approached, because they normally have a little more to say about the amendments that will or will not be adopted. The lobby may not have worked on this dossier, although I have a few reservations when I look at the process, but the lobbyists have started to work. The only question we have to ask ourselves when discussing this text is what we as a Parliament and as a society want. Do we want a law that is as strict as possible and protects the interests of our citizens as much as possible, protects public health and ensures that people do not get into financial problems too quickly because of all kinds of addictions, including gambling addictions? Or do we opt for a model of freedom and joy, in which the market does its job and does not harm the interests of the gambling sector too much? I believe that we should opt for the general interest. That's why we're here. Consumer protection, the protection of public health and the fight against gambling debts must be the main principles. There have been missed opportunities, because over the years things have developed, evolved and regularized. I am thinking here of the so-called 3.3 machines and live betting, which are very controversial and, according to experts, very addictive and dangerous, because during sports competitions one can bet on the results over and over again, even during the second half, or guess who will get the next red or yellow card. Experts point out that this is a very dangerous system in which people go very easily. The same applies to virtual bets. In committee, we have tabled a number of clear amendments to make the texts even stricter. Unfortunately, they have not been accepted, something I do not really understand. Mr Vermeulen, you yourself have listed the problems, where control is insufficient and where we should take further steps. I can largely follow you in that. The only thing you need to do for this is to approve the amendments we tabled. When you talk about the EPIS and say that newspapers and horse races are not yet covered, we have an amendment ready to include them. If you table an amendment to that effect, I will also approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u160	I recognize the text of your amendment, which seems very well inspired by something I myself have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u161	Mr Vermeulen, follow your heart. Convince your group, and preferably the majority, to approve these amendments. If you are so concerned because the EPIS has not been sufficiently developed and many people are still escaping it, what will prevent you from voting in favour and approving the amendment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u162	As I have just explained, there is a major technological problem in putting EPIS on devices. It is difficult to make an EPIS application when entering any newspaper business such as the bill that is now proposed for each gambling office. That is the big problem, it has to be placed on the aircraft and there would still be technological problems in that area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u163	Colleague, all problems can be solved. If necessary, we will give more time for certain provisions to enter into force in order to provide the necessary technological solutions. Not everything must come into force ten days after publication in the Belgian Official Journal. If that takes three or six months, then we can just as well let those articles enter into force. Where there's a will, there's a way. However, I have the impression that there has been pressure on the majority parties not to go too fast and too far. I have also referred in committee to a peculiarity that has crept into it. The Minister has often stressed the need for consultation with the Regions, because they also have tax jurisdiction. The Regions make money from the betting and the entire gambling industry. If we want to tighten up at federal level, this could affect the tax revenues of the Regions. That is why there should be consultation. Well, I think this is bullshit. If, at federal level, we think that something is harmful and we want to take stricter action or ban certain things, then we must be able to do so. If this leads to less tax revenue for the Regions, so be it. I believe that we must still be able to exercise our powers fully. That is why it is a pity that strings which are absolutely necessary are delayed by such rules. Reference is made to a judgment of the Constitutional Court. I wonder whether that judgment does apply to the subject matter and the entanglements in this matter. There was also a consultation in March 2018. A preliminary draft of this text was therefore submitted to the Regions. I can only observe that a number of changes have been made after the original text and the one that has now been submitted to the committee. It was mainly about the 3.3 devices. A year ago it was clear that it was not intended that these devices could still be present in petrol stations, for example. The Flemish administration prepared itself for this and assumed that this would be prohibited. In the latest version submitted to the Chamber, this ban had suddenly disappeared. If the Minister is asked how this is done, a vague reference is made to an opinion of the Council of State, but the Council of State has not said anything about it. So along the way, somewhere between March 2018 and the submission of the text a few months ago, a entanglement has suddenly disappeared, without giving any logical explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, for the rest, I would like to refer to the discussion in committee and the excellent report that exists. I would ask this House to look very seriously at the amendments we are going to vote on. It is clear that these amendments were tabled. An amendment seeks to tighten age conditions, i.e. from the age of 21. For some cases the age of 18 is now set, while for others the age of 21 is set. Let us set the bar for everything at 21 years. There is also an amendment introducing a ban on advertising by analogy with tobacco advertising. I think that is absolutely necessary. We just have to do that. Some say that they are not ready and that they must wait until the next legislature. However, we must not wait until we are ready, because that is how we can wait. Thirdly, another amendment concerns maximum losses. The maximum loss per week is now 500 euros, which is 2 000 euros per month. That's more than a month's pay for a lot of people. That's too much. I believe that Parliament has the opportunity to say today that it is too much and to reduce it. Our amendment halves the maximum loss, from EUR 500 to EUR 250 per week. I call on all groups to approve at least this minor amendment. This can make a world of difference in practice. We also call for the amendments on EPIS to be extended. Ladies and gentlemen, I am entirely open to a sub-amendment to extend the deadline. Submit it and I'll be happy to support it. To that extent, I would like to make a statement on this point. I hope that we will be able to intertwine. If that does not work, there may be a lot of work on the shelves during the next legislative term to move this dossier to a higher gear and make the legislation super strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u164	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u165	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3327/9) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3327/9) The title was amended by the Committee in its draft law amending the law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling facilities and the protection of players, and introducing Article 37/1 in the law of 19 April 2002 on the nationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery." The title has been amended by the committee into a bill amending the Act of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling establishments and the protection of players, and inserting article 37/1 into the Act of 19 April 2002 on the rationalisation of the operation and management of the National Lottery". The draft law has 37 articles. The bill has 37 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u166	Art. 3/1(n) • 63 • Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 64 years old Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 26/1(n) • 65 years old Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 66 years old Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 30/1(n) • 61 Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 67 Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 62 Stefaan Van Hecke (3327/10) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u167	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 18, 29, 31 and 32.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u168	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 17, 19 to 28, 30 and 33 to 37.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-04-54-plenair-ip279x.u169	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to suspend our work here. As you know, we will begin again at 2.15 p.m. with a statement by the Prime Minister on the segregation of metises. The meeting is adjourned. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 April 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, April 4, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
