ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u1	Mevrouw de voorzitter, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the Justice and Home Affairs Committees which met separately on 5 November, you put several questions to us. My dear colleague Pieter De Crem, Minister of the Interior, and I have committed ourselves to responding. In the meantime, a separate discussion was held on assistance to the victims of the attacks. Therefore, we will not come back to these aspects today. We grouped our responses around a series of themes, on the understanding that several of them were common to both committees. I will begin by addressing the issues of State Security. One of them concerned cooperation between the military intelligence service and the military intelligence service. As I indicated in my introductory presentation on November 5, a key step was taken with the first strategic intelligence plan, approved in October 2018. It defines the relationship between the two departments, as well as the question of who is working on what type of threat and type of discipline in data collection. It also sets out the tools and forums for consultation. A follow-up committee, composed of two directorates, was set up with a view to meeting on a monthly basis. The Secretariat is provided by the State Security Service. Each department has designated a liaison officer. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that 17 SSRS officers are working well on the State Security premises. This is an important fact in practical terms, but also symbolic, as this localization shows an evolution in the relationship between the two services. I was also asked about the status of the clarification of the third-party service rule. The VSSE has taken an initiative at European level to implement the principle that the third-service rule is automatically understood as a third-country rule. However, this is a slow process, where the VSSE cannot move forward faster than the international partners want, otherwise there is a risk that we will no longer receive relevant information from abroad. Pending the evolution of the third service rule, the VSSE comes up with pragmatic solutions. The customer survey shows that the approach of the VSSE of two parallel notes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The full context is known and the necessary element can be included in the open file with limited explanation. The VSSE has also pointed out that it is asking its foreign partners to declassify their information. As regards the elimination of differences in the statutes of the interior services and the external services of the VSSE, a draft Royal Decree was recently submitted to the Minister for the Budget and Civil Service. The text aims to bring about a convergence of the Staff Regulations applicable to the VSSE with a view to the partial integration of the employees of the internal services into the administrative and financial status of the employees of the external services. This measure is the first measure in a general reform of the Staff Regulations of the VSSE. Such small integration consists of the application of some provisions of the Royal Decree on the status of external services to the staff of the internal services, which are aimed at the allowances, as well as the leave and absences. The additional rights must be read together with the often de facto rising requirements on working time. In turn, duties are linked to the exercise of the rights attached thereto. For example, the system of leave and absence becomes uniform, based on the existing regulatory framework. In addition, there are some amendments to the Staff Regulations relating to external services to be recommended in the light of the reform of the organisation and operation of the service as a whole, in this case the evaluation and change arrangements in the external services, the composition of the Disciplinary Board of the external services, the definition of the concept of "night' for the corresponding allowances and, finally, certain effects on leave and absences. With regard to resources, it should first be noted that there has been a significant increase in the number of security personnel. This increased from 558 officers in 2014 to 650 in 2019, despite the transfer of the close protection task - and thus from 40 officers - to the police. Taking this last element into account, there is an increase of more than 20%. Moreover, this has been a huge challenge for the organization in terms of the absorption of new staff, since 150 agents – 1 in 4 – have arrived at the Sûreté in the last three years. I do not think it would have been possible to accelerate the pace further. On the other hand, I am convinced that this effort must continue and I am confident that the next government will do so. As far as budgetary resources are concerned, there has been massive investment in security since the attacks of 22 March 2016. Additional resources have been provided for in the interdepartmental provision. More than 325 million euros have been set aside for justice for the period 2016-2020. They have been assigned to prisons, to the strengthening of the Judicial Order - notably in the framework of the Canal Plan -, to the State Security, to the "Legislation" service of the SPF Justice and to the NTSU/CTIF. More specifically, since the 2016 attacks, the budget of the VSSE has increased from 44.1 million euros to 64.2 million euros in 2018. That is an increase of 45%. The increase is largely based on the additional resources obtained in the fight against terrorism. The additional resources are intended, on the one hand, for the strengthening of services, i.e. structural, and, on the other hand, for investments such as the development of a new operational database. A total of EUR 6.2 million in recurrent funds and more than EUR 20 million in non-recurrent funds. Due to a decrease in investment rhythm and the phasing-out of the Terro commission, the resources of the VSSE will amount to 53 million euros by 2020, which still represents a structural increase of 20% since 2016. The NTSU-CTIF, the federal police service that includes interception of telecommunications, received from the Terro commission a recurrent amount of about 800,000 euros and a non-recurrent amount for one-off investments of about 20 million euros, including for a new listening centre and several new technologies related to the interception of communications. The judicial order was also strengthened by the funds from the commission. For example, in the framework of the Channel Plan, some €14 million per year were made available for additional recruitments to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the courts and courts. An additional 10 million a year was allocated to recruitments at courts and courts and the public prosecutor's office in the context of investigations into terrorism and radicalism. In addition, 23.4 million a year were registered to cover the legal costs incurred by the additional files. Finally, in order to strengthen the secure departments and cell Extremism as well as to allow the security corps to cope with the additional workload, a recurrent amount of more than 5 million euro was earmarked for the prison system and for the then security corps in the Terro commission. This also funded training on radicalism and terrorism. The joint information centers (JIC) and the joint decision centers (JDC) are two following topics, which are on my plate after the VSSE. A number of questions from the two committees dealt with the joint information and joint decision centres. I begin by replying to Mrs Rohonyi, who asked how the cooperation between the intelligence services, the OCAM and the PJF of Brussels in fusion cell intelligence has progressed. This collaboration has been more structured with the creation of the joint information center since it replaces the fusion cell. As will be seen later, this development is very positive. As regards the general development of the joint information and joint decision centres and as I indicated in my speech at the previous meeting, the latest step was the extension of the current JIC-JDC to the other districts under the jurisdiction of the Brussels Court of Appeal. It started on November 1st. Unsurprisingly, you asked me about the enlargement of the whole territory and the question of the establishment of a national centre. You may know that the difficulty is to reconcile two distinct organisations: a rather deconcentrated police organization with the PJFs and a more centralized intelligence organization. The public prosecutor's office is located between the two with a rather deconcentrated structure of five courts of appeal and judicial districts with 14 public prosecutors, but in the field of terrorism in particular, a major role for the only body at the national level, i.e. the federal prosecutor's office. The question has not yet been resolved. It was chosen to focus for a year on the JIC-JDC in Brussels and CT (counter-terrorism) forums in other jurisdictions. This has been a fundamental step and it is essential to allow it to come to an end. The evaluation of this first year of operation of JIC-JDC is carried out with regard to the JIC-JDC in Brussels and is considered to be positive. In mid-2020, the assessment will be made of the extension of JIC-JDC to all areas of Brussels. This evaluation will be an important tool for progress. We will probably have to position ourselves in the course of 2020 on the future of this structure. This discussion will take place first with the heads of corps of the agencies concerned within the Intelligence and Security Coordination Committee and then with the National Security Council. I would like, for the moment, to let the services continue in the operationalization of the work started a year ago and its evaluation. But I am well aware that it is possible that the government will have to decide. I conclude by saying that the public prosecutor in Brussels, who is leading this whole project, insists on his willingness to come and discuss all this in your House to give more explanation. I come to the Bank-Carrefour de la Sécurité, a horizontal project that raised a lot of questions in the two committees that took place last month. Some indicated that the recommendation was simply aimed at creating a hit-no hit system between the intelligence services, the OCAM and the police. This hit-no hit solution has, in fact, always been the one advocated by Mr Bruggeman. But others recalled that the report of the commission of inquiry was very explicit on the fact that the Bank-Carrefour de la Sécurité is a much broader concept. In this regard, I would like to draw everyone's attention to page 213 of the report concerning the security architecture. It seems to me very difficult to consider that this long passage from page 213 aims to reduce the Carrefour Bank to a hit-no hit system. I stress that neither the government nor the services have taken a position against such a system, but the question is whether a one-time ICT project limited to this hit-no hit system is being carried out or whether the system is being incorporated into a broader vision, system and governance structure at the outset. I am convinced that we must move towards the second solution and work with a modular system like the Social Security Carrefour Bank. It's a bit like Lego's blocks. The hit-no hit system must be thought of as a component, perhaps the first but not the only one, of a larger whole. You asked me why the court did not take part in the work of the committee. I think I can say that the court is concerned about the possible impact of a Crossroads Bank Security on the supervision of the prosecutor's information. That concern is entirely justified and in accordance with the law. Those who have actually read the report will have noticed that these questions are not being avoided and that they are rightly asked about the relationship between the Crossroads Bank Security and the criminal chain. That seems to me to be in line with the spirit of the Committee of Inquiry's report, which seeks to break the codes and address sensitive issues in order to make progress. What's the next step? I think I can express the views of the various services when I say that it is now necessary, on the basis of the next government's report, to get a plan on the proposed options and a signal on the budget that will be devoted to them. The cost can be estimated more accurately, but there is little point in analysing, for example, the option with a solid governance structure, such as at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, if it is ultimately decided to set up a hit-no hit system between the different services. Another point is the common database. As my colleague De Crem and I have repeatedly explained, both the complete follow-up and the exchange of information are of particular importance to ensure the security of our citizens. In this context, this common database is an important tool for the exchange of information on terrorism and radicalism. In this way, we also want to ensure, through the common database, the follow-up of persons who have come to their end after they have been convicted of terrorism, but who are still radicalised when they are released. We want to do the same for those who are neither Home Terrorist Fighter nor Foreign Terrorist Fighter, but for those who have indications that they might be able to commit terrorist acts. The previous opinions, necessary for the adaptation of regulatory texts in order to enable the abovementioned follow-up of these two new categories of persons, have been delivered and are positive. By the end of this week, both the Minister for Home Affairs and Security and myself will call together the Inter-Kabinette Working Group to finalise the necessary adjustments to those texts. In the Committee on Home Affairs a question was asked about the use of a tool called OSINT's an appropriate name at this time of the year. This is a tool that allows to collect and analyze available data on the internet as an open source. That's why I was talking about Lego blocks. It'll keep you animated. The police, Defence and State Security have jointly launched a public contract and appointed a supplier. The services that tested the product during the development and the start-up have demonstrated and communicated to the supplier significant deficiencies in the specifications. Contacts are currently in the process of improving the situation with judicial proceedings as an option, if expectations are not met. Independent of the request of the tool itself, the measures have been taken within the respective services for the proper use of OSINT data. A note issued by the Director-General of the General Directorate of the Judicial Police specifies the type of instruments which allow for the conduct of internal searches and to determine the modalities and conditions of use, in particular as regards user profiles and required training. So much for the questions relating to the exchange of information. I come to the questions relating to data processing. The cooperation of providers such as Facebook, Whatsapp, Google, Twitter and so on in the context of criminal investigations is a complex matter which I would like to highlight briefly in two aspects. The first aspect is the international legal framework. Since the Law of 25 December 2016, which extends earlier case law, Belgium has adopted a very contemporary law that leaves no doubt as to the obligations of the providers. It should be noted, however, that the absence of European and transatlantic rules has a completely effective effect. That is why we have played a key role, and we are sticking to it, in discussing a regulation at European level and in seeking a solution with the United States. I hope that the European Parliament will adopt a position this year and that the negotiations between the Council, Parliament and the Commission will result in an agreement by 2020. On Tuesday I made a plea to that effect at the Council of Justice and Home Affairs of the European Union. I am sure that the new Commissioner for Justice, our fellow countryman Didier Reynders, will continue to do so. The second aspect concerns practical cooperation with these providers. The situation has improved, which does not mean that it is now entirely satisfactory, especially in view of the international legal vacuum that exists and the ongoing legal conflicts. However, our federal police have established solid contacts with most providers with great determination and care, in search of appropriate solutions. In February 2018, I attended intensive discussions on this specific dossier in Washington with federal police experts and prosecutors, along with the US authorities, but also with Google, Facebook, Microsoft and Apple in Silicon Valley. The attention given by the various actors to the discussions with the Belgian delegation and the expertise shown by the Belgian experts during the meeting have once again strengthened me in my belief that Belgium should be proud of its efforts in this dossier. In the context of the research phase, I shall now refer to the storage of documents of conviction, on which two questions have been raised. The ordinary documents of conviction shall, as appropriate, be deposited at the Registry. It is only the documents of conviction which may pose a security risk, such as weapons and ammunition, which may no longer be deposited at the French-speaking Brussels Registry. This situation is the result of a decision by the FOD WASO that no dangerous products may be stored in the French-speaking Brussels Registry by 1 January 2020 at the latest. Of course, the police are not supposed to carry weapons or ammunition instead of the clerks. Following several negotiations with the police and the judiciary, the most logical solution seems to be to set up the Liège arms test bench as a unique Registry for Arms and Munitions for the whole country, because this arms test bench already has all the necessary permits and security facilities on the ground. This solution must now be further examined and developed. Pending a final solution, ammunition will be transferred by the police forces to DOVO for destruction. Weapons can either be placed at the Registry for the time being, except at the French-speaking Brussels Registry, or be disposed of at once to the arms test bench in Liège. As mentioned above, the common computer tool PACOS (abbreviated exhibits, overtuigingsstukken) allows you to trace a piece seized from the moment it is seized to its final destination. This tool is necessary to have a strong chain of evidence between police and justice. The use of this computer tool cannot be seen in isolation, but also involves an important part at both the police and the judicial level, at the logistical level, since public procurement is necessary, for example, to obtain scanners to read barcodes. At the training level, there is also a lot of people to be trained, given that the seizure of documents affects the entire police force, as well as transplants and magistrates. These various aspects are now under control, allowing progress to be made in the deployment of the PACOS computer tool. National leaders of the PACOS project for police and justice are currently moving from borough to borough to meet both police and justice actors to inform them about the project and train them, and then invite them to test the application before entering an operational phase. In 2019, roadshows were held in the following districts: Luxembourg, East Flanders, Hainaut, Mons, Charleroi and Leuven. At the directive level, there is first of all a circular from the College of Attorneys General of 2018 which already provides for the use of specific labels and which is being revised to impose the use of PACOS for money seizures. As regards the traceability of money seizures, the PACOS tool will have to be used, for example, by the entire police by 1 March 2020 at the latest. The College of Attorneys General then finalizes with the partners involved a generic circular on the management of exhibits. Finally, the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police has also issued and maintains a good practice guide on seizures, which is available for the entire integrated police force. In the context of criminal proceedings, I shall now turn to the stage of the execution of the sentence. The introduction of the criminal execution court for all terrorist offences is no longer the subject of the law of 5 May 2019 laying down various provisions in criminal matters. The government's draft was converted into a legislative proposal and was thus dealt with until the vote of the law. It should be noted that the posting is not a security measure but an additional prison sentence. It means, in concrete terms, an increase in prison time. If the remark is made that the posting of the criminal enforcement court may be useful to those who wish to end the sentence, it can be answered that the posting of the criminal execution court does not solve the problem of the end of the sentence but merely shifts the end of the sentence over time. The new Criminal Code, as laid down in a bill currently under discussion in the Justice Commission, no longer retains this additional custodial sentence, because of incoherence. Book II does, however, provide for higher primary penalties for such crimes, still as a proposal, in other words to compensate for the abolition of the posting of the criminal enforcement court. The debate on penalties has already begun in the Committee on Justice. The usefulness of the provision of the criminal enforcement court has also been discussed, including during the explanatory statement of the Committee of Experts. If a decision is finally taken to retain the posting of the criminal enforcement court, its scope in the field of terrorism will have to be reviewed, which goes without saying. With regard to the information available to the criminal courts and cooperation with the security services, I can tell you that the criminal courts are fully-fledged courts of first instance, which must display the same independence, impartiality and guarantees as the other courts. This means that in individual files all the information they receive must be subject to a contradictory debate, given the right to a fair trial. It is necessary that the execution of penalties in general and the criminal courts take particular account of confidential information in the context of radicalisation. In order to guarantee the rights of defence in the contradictory debate before the criminal court, a special procedure should be introduced in the law on external legal status and later in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Due to the fall of the government and the transposition of the bill into a legislative proposal, this provision could no longer be incorporated into the external legal status law, but the text is ready. Several of your questions deal with the follow-up of prisoners and prisoners in prison. I can provide the latest statistics for 2018 on prohibited items found during sweeps in an attachment document. In virtually all prisons and certainly in those where radicalised detainees or terrorists reside, there are members of the Executive Board who have security clearance. At present, the security clearances of the members of the Executive Board who have the national confidential level are being raised to national secrecy. As far as the link to the intercepting of visitors is concerned, this is not being investigated at local level. The central administration of the prison system analyses on a monthly basis the entire inmate population that has entered the last month and all visitors of all prisoners by crossing that data with the data of the common database. If there is a match, there is always negative advice for the visit. Reference persons are currently present in all prisons where there are radicalised or terrogated prisoners. Those people have all received specialized training. In addition, a single point or contact will be identified in each prison in the foreseeable future, which will include the internal management of information and the active support of a smooth infflux. This role of SPOC will be assigned to one or more board members. They will need security clearance. The Deradex departments are constantly evaluated and updated on the basis of feedback from all parties involved and on the basis of new insights. This is unique to an initiative in a start-up phase within a domain where there is little experience and expertise, such as the domain of radicalisation and terrorism. We have now reached a stage where a more thorough evaluation from the different dimensions is possible and necessary. The evaluation report is expected before the end of this year. Each file is approached within the psychosocial service on an individual basis, not just that of radicalized detainees. However, staff taking up files of radicalised detainees must have received specific training for this purpose. There is also more intensive guidance for the staff dealing with these dossiers. It is important to note that these specific aspects apply not only to the management and follow-up of records of detainees convicted of terrorist offences and radicalised detainees, but also to detainees who are beginning to show signs of radicalisation. With regard to existing resources at the disposal of psychosocial services, additional staff have been assigned to the Deradex departments and to establishments with a greater concentration of terrorist records. 13 social assistants and nine psychologists, each full-time equivalent, were appointed for that population. The policy of spreading these prisoners, which was deliberately pursued in this area, is clearly important. In addition, a strong commitment was made to training for all categories of personnel affected by these dossiers, and not just for employees of psychosocial services. For this purpose, Belgium was able to avail itself of specific grants of European origin, which are still two years old. Several members of the Justice Committee have asked for explanations on follow-up when a detainee is released from prison – in particular in terms of the flow of information. In particular, we indicated that the mayors would not be informed of the release of detainees from prison in the common data bank. I would remind you that it is the head of the local police force who is involved in the flow of information and that the relationship between the head of the corps and the local administrative authority belongs to the latter. Almost three years ago, I met with task force presidents to examine some cases where it was reported that the information had not reached the local police. This was surprising because the rules on information flows are very clear about this. So I asked to list the few problematic cases concerned. The analysis showed that the information had been transmitted by DG PPE but that a treatment problem had arisen in its subsequent dissemination. Steps have been taken to rectify this. I discussed this issue later with the Commissioner General, who, after being informed that there were still problems, carried out the necessary checks to find that no more specific cases had actually been identified. I can only recall the situation. Procedures exist, the local police chief must be informed and if this is not the case, the specific case must be traced through the appropriate channels to see a possible malfunction. But this obviously implies that the criticisms are well founded. In addition, as I already mentioned on 5 November, a new system called I+Belgium has been put in place to improve the flow of information for conditionally released persons. This system is operational in a majority of boroughs and deployment continues. In addition to monitoring the conditions laid down by the judicial authority, mention should also be made of the more general follow-up at the level of the local task forces. The release from prison of a prisoner linked to radicalism gives rise to a report transmitted to the State Security to prepare the follow-up that takes place after the exit from the local task force. This is the key level for sharing information and sharing tasks in the follow-up of radicalized ex-prisoners at the level of intelligence and police services. As far as the trial of the 22 March attacks is concerned, I can confirm that it will be held on the former NATO site. It is indeed the site that offers the best compromise in terms of availability, security, and reception capacity. The infrastructure will be handed over to Defence in May 2020 and will then be made available to Justice, which, in consultation with the various actors involved, will proceed with the development of the site. The settlement of the Brussels bombing procedure is expected to take place in the first half of 2020. As you know, some of the defendants are also involved in the attacks on 13 November 2015 in Paris. In accordance with the chronology of events, and in consultation with the French authorities, the trial will begin after the close of the French trial, probably in September 2021. The duration of the trial in Belgium is estimated at nine months. In the written parliamentary question to which you refer, Mr. Maingain invited me to communicate the number of Belgian deprivations of nationality that had already been claimed and the number of cases in which the judge had granted that request. At the time, I had replied that there were not yet any data available to answer these questions specifically, and I therefore did not say that no revocation had yet been pronounced. In the meantime, I have the following data. So far, seven deprivations of nationality have been imposed on the basis of Article 23, § 1, paragraph 1, paragraph 2, of the Belgian Nationality Code, "Severe failure to fulfil obligations as a Belgian citizen", and eight revocations on the basis of Article 23/2 of the same Code, "Debate on grounds of terrorism". This statistical data has been provided to me by the Public Prosecutor's Office, but it cannot guarantee its completeness. However, I cannot tell you how many deprivations of nationality have been claimed in total, because the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have such data. Several questions were asked on the subject of Belgians located in camps or prisons in Syria, and on their possible repatriation. A lot has happened since the last discussion. There have been many debates in Parliament, whether in the Justice Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Committee or in the plenary. This is a difficult issue where the balance of risks remains delicate. There is no ideal solution. Neither an organized return nor leaving adults on the spot are risk-free. I refer in particular to my answer to a parliamentary question in the Justice Committee last Wednesday for more details. The position of the government remains unchanged. Finally, I'll talk about the file on the Great Mosque. A question related to the partners who will participate in the new concession of the Great Mosque. A new concession will be made with the non-profit management association of the Grand Mosque of Brussels, a umbrella association that takes up the technical and administrative management of the complex of the Grand Mosque. Several bodies are represented within the non-profit association. Firstly, the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium. Secondly, those responsible for organising an exhibition space. Thirdly, the local community of faith itself. Fourthly, the Académie des formations et des recherches en études Islamicques, who will be responsible for the new training of the ministers of Islamic worship. These four partners will be assisted within the umbrella association by experts in the financial and legal field, as well as by representatives of the Government of the Buildings, the Ministry of Justice and the Brussels-Capital Region. With regard to the management of the Great Mosque of Brussels, a precarious convention had been signed by the Régie des Bâtiments and the Executive of the Muslims of Belgium, pending the establishment of the management association of the Great Mosque of Brussels. A final agreement will be signed by the Régie and this new entity. The Great Mosque is an emblematic place for the entire Muslim community in Belgium. To this end, the statutes of the above-mentioned management association provide for broad representation both by the presence of members of the Muslim Executive of Belgium, the Academy for Training and Research in Islamic Studies, representatives of the cultural world and the local community. It will be up to the Executive to apply to the Brussels-Capital Region for recognition, in connection with the Great Mosque. Recognition of the local community and possible subsidisation for the operation of the management committee, in the event of insufficient income, fall within the competence of the Brussels-Capital Region. The statute of the ASBL mentioned provides for the presence of an expert from the Region. As far as the building of the Great Mosque is concerned, it is classified and must follow the rules of planning and fire standards, which also fall within the competence of the Region. With regard to the fight against foreign funding of worship services in general, major steps were taken within the framework of the Dialogue Council between the recognized honour services and the recognised liberality. In March 2019, the recognised honorary services and freedom, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice signed a charter and a pact. The purpose of these documents is, among other things, to prevent foreign financing that could harm the local independence of the communities. In addition, on 5 November 2019 a training of the representatives of the recognised honorary services and the generosity of the new non-profit-making legislation and the resulting accounting obligations took place. This training was given by experts from the FPS Justice Department. Experts from the FPS Finance have also spoken, in particular about the UBO register which should promote the financial transparency of non-profit organisations. These issues will be re-examined at the next meeting of the Dialogue Council. The dome-vzw of the Great Mosque, as well as all the bodies that are part of it, will comply with these guidelines with the utmost care. The Royal Decree of 29 April 2019 implementing the Code of Companies and Associations was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 30 April 2019. This Royal Decree includes the annual accounts of non-profit organisations. In addition, non-profit organisations which have once filed their annual accounts may not be dissolved by the court of first instance at the request of any interested party or of the public prosecutor. The bill on the transparency of non-profit organisations, which included the need for non-profit organisations to keep a list of gifts, was sent to the Council of State during the previous parliamentary term after a vote in committee at the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, about 40 questions had been asked. I have done my best to achieve the best possible balance and provide you with key information without being able to get into all the details. There can be no doubt that the report of the commission of inquiry has been taken very seriously by all the actors. The main departments have all reviewed the recommendations and organized themselves for their implementation, which has been discussed many times with the ministers concerned. Numerous measures were taken, from practical adaptations to in-depth legislative changes. Work remains to be done and everyone is well aware that the end of the legislative term, to which the Committee of Inquiry was attached, does not mean the end of the scope of the report and its follow-up. I hope that I have not only been able to demonstrate that a great deal of work has been done, but also that the continuation of work remains a priority. In particular, I would like to thank your committees, the services and more, my colleague Mr De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u2	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to welcome you to this second meeting on the follow-up to the recommendations made in the final report of the Committee of Inquiry on the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016. Our first exchange of views took place on 5 November in the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. After my explanation, the opportunity was given to ask questions. A number of these questions were already answered at the second committee meeting on the evaluation of the optimisation of the federal police which took place on 10 November 2019. I will now, as foreseen, answer the remaining questions. First of all, I would like to address Mr Donné's questions on the internal reform of the federal police, the vision of the division of the administrative and judicial police and the envelope financing. The division into an administrative and judicial police goes far back in history and is based on the way in which the authorities in our country operate and on the various roles that the police must fulfil, from a community-oriented, preventively unified role to the more specialised, repressive detective function. It is particularly important that the pillar approach is addressed, both in the minds of the police and in the exchange of information and the execution of the assignments. This is primarily the responsibility of management and administrative and judicial authorities. I believe in creating the right culture and adapted processes rather than in adapting structures. There is, for example, a lot to say about the merging of the functions of judicial director and administrative director-coordinator, but the question remains, of course, whether we are going to merge the central management-general of the judicial and administrative police. Otherwise, this one director at district level has three bosses in Brussels, alongside his judicial and administrative authorities, and under this district director we will undoubtedly find a responsible for the judicial police and one for the administrative police or a director of operations. As you can see, it is not so obvious when we talk about structures. Such an exercise cannot in any case be completed in current cases and is therefore best linked to a reform of the local police. I am, like you, in favour of better use of the available budget and I am pleased to see that you have reached the same conclusion in your previous position and that Mr Jambon has also reached that conclusion. If there is a shortage of operational and investment resources, we should be able to use underutilised human resources and vice versa. On my question, the federal police have prepared a sheet of options that can serve as a basis for a legislative initiative. I'll call on you to work on that together. Mr Donné and Mr Kitir, you asked questions about the position of the Commissioner-General. I have already answered these questions at the second hearing on the evaluation of the optimisation of the federal police. Ever since I was Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I have never found that the position of the Commissioner-General would not be strong enough. Much therefore has to do with the implementation of the position and the relationship with the custody ministers. I understand that a bill has been tabled by you, Mrs Kitir. I therefore assume that this bill will require the necessary advice, including that of my services of the Interior, and will then be added in writing to the discussion of your bill. Mr Soors, you asked questions about the Channel Plan and the rise of the far right. Three years after the launch of the Channel Plan, the operational steering committee carefully looks back on its work. According to the July 2019 evaluation report, the Channel Plan has largely fulfilled its role as a laboratory for developing and applying new practices. Important yards were set up and concrete dysfunctions, such as signals at national and international level, could be eliminated in the very short term. Both tackling violent radicalism and terrorism as well as supporting criminal phenomena could be intensified on the ground through enhanced synergies between police and judicial partners. Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the operational steering committee notes, however, that despite the efforts made, the national and international threat posed by the Channel Area remains higher than in the rest of the country. The majority of current judicial investigations in the context of radicalism and terrorism continue to originate here. And the congruence with the underlying criminal phenomena remains a fact. The anonymity of the metropolitan context, combined with the presence of facilitating factors such as drug trafficking, illegal economy and the availability of weapons and false documents, make the Channel Area a difficult environment to work on. It is therefore too early to say whether the police and judicial efforts of the last three years, which were more than significant, have had a concrete effect or not. I am therefore looking for scientific figures and scientific findings in order to be able to answer them later. The impact of such processes can only be quantified after a long-term effort. In order to deal effectively with the situation on the ground, efforts should be continued. This can be done not only within the Channel Zone, but also in the whole of the districts concerned. On the basis of the evaluation, all actors will be consulted in the short term where adjustment is necessary and possible. Both local authorities and local police are actively involved. The findings of the consultations I had with my colleague, the mayor of Vilvoorde, in which Mrs Soors also participated, will also be taken into account, albeit in a different capacity. The police zone Vilvoorde-Machelen was hardly strengthened by the Channel Plan because of the lack of Dutch-speaking policemen. This remains a major problem, and I have provided a number of operational solutions. In the medium and long term, the methods developed within the Channel Plan laboratory will be translated at national level. With regard to the rise of the extreme right, I refer to the answer I gave to Mrs Soors' question in committee last week, in which I noted that the security services pay particular attention to the entire spectrum on which extremism and terrorism can move, from the extreme left to the far right. As regards the questions put by colleagues Soors, Senesael and Vandenput on the deployment of the military and the operation Vigilant Guardian, I can inform you that a joint plan of phasing out is being worked out by the Crisis Centre, the Police and Defence. This plan should allow for the same level of security and provides for a systematic dismantling of the military, starting with airports and train stations. It is now awaiting an agreement from the local police Antwerp to bring the phasing-out into force. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police is currently looking at this matter with the chief of police of the local police of Antwerp. Regarding the questions of colleagues Senesael, Kitir and Demon about the emergency qualification and the discipline that must take the direction of operations in the event of a terrorist attack, the new Royal Decree of 22 May 2019 on emergency planning maintains the designation of discipline 1 (firefighters) to take the direction of operations in the event of an incident. This decision is based on field experiences and various exercises and the contribution of local actors in emergency planning. This does not waste time discussing who should take the job. As the situation evolves, the competent authority may then decide whether or not to entrust the position to a person from another discipline, such as a police officer, in the event of terrorism. So it is not a matter of forgetfulness, ladies and gentlemen, but of an informed decision. It would therefore be a mistake to want to arrange the appointment differently and, in the first few moments following an incident, to waste valuable time on the discussion of who should be appointed to take the lead. In this respect, we cannot ignore the advice of the people on the ground. Alternative majorities that lack reality and experience on the ground can be particularly dangerous in these matters. I come to Mr Senesael's question on the common databank. With regard to the extension of the common database to include potentially dangerous extremists and persons convicted of terrorist acts, an intervention by the chairmen of the P and R committees last June forced us to suspend the project for six months. That is why a draft royal decree was drawn up in order to provide a clearer legal framework. The opinion of the Council of State has also been sought to this end, and completion should not be delayed. For questions from colleagues Senesael, Demon and Vanden Burre on the federal police force, in the context of the fight against terrorism and radicalism, the federal police were able to present various files in order to be able to benefit from the interdepartmental provision (IDP) for a series of staff-related operating, investment and budget projects. For staffing requirements, the IGF and the Ministers gave a positive opinion on the appropriations requested for a total of 1,229 places. This is a budget of €62 million. For the sustainability of EUR 49 million in operating and investment appropriations, the Council of Ministers has yet to take a decision, but I will certainly defend the case. As regards Mr Demon's question about the lack of resources and capacity in the federal police force, I would like to refer to my reply during the second exchange of views on the evaluation of optimisation. In summary, the aim is to recruit the right people more quickly, to use the budget more flexibly, and to use the current capacity and resources to ensure security at all levels pending the introduction of the capacity. With nearly 50,000 policemen, local and federal, and with a federal budget of more than EUR 2 billion, that should be possible. So let us move away from the deficit culture and focus on what we have and, above all, on what we can do together. Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to our colleague Senesael's question on diversified recruitment, I repeat the initiatives that have been taken: - close collaboration with key partners such as VDAB, Forem and Actiris; - strengthening our cooperation with various institutions organising police pre-training such as the ASBL CEFIG (Centre de formation insertion Le Grain) and the Institut des Arts et Métiers, which organise information sessions, police visits, meetings with police aspirants and many other activities; - the presence of colleagues of all origins in Brussels employment fairs and throughout the country; - strengthening links with Brusafe, the employment fair; - contacts with Brussels schools (followed in 7TQ schools); - information sessions; - preparation for testing; - individual aid throughout the territory; - information sessions with the local Mission in Etterbeek; - simulations of the cognitive test and tests of the sports test; - the organisation of simulations of the cognitive aptitude test, the deficiencies noted in persons of allochtonic origin are listed; - the project of collaboration with the Ghent Police Area "100% FL(IK)" to stimulate diversity within the area and to accompany candidates during the selection tests; - in advertising campaigns, the police ensure the representation of diversity in our organization. As far as the questions of our colleagues Senesael and Dallemagne on international police cooperation and on the liaison officer in Turkey are concerned, the latter is still in Ankara. I have recently extended his term of office and am very pleased with his work. Cooperation with the Turkish police services is excellent. A so-called hotspot procedure has been developed in the context of the return of fighters from the Islamic State. This procedure proved its worth in the recent return of two Daesh fighters. With regard to Mr Senesael's question on the Railway Police and the establishment of a mobile protection team, the Commissioner-General drew up an explanatory note on mobile protection teams. The General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the Local Police, after consulting with me, conducted an audit of the operation of the Railway Police. The file is therefore followed very closely. In reply to Mr Franky Demon's question concerning the sharing of information and the improvement of cooperation as well as on BE-Alert in general, I can say that many higher legal structures are now active to improve the flow of information and its exchange. One example of this is the local integrated security cells and the local task forces, which I have explained in detail. They are in close contact with the working groups of the Plan Radicalism, led by the OCAD. Moreover, there are also a number of initiatives from a joint information centre (JIC) and a joint decision centre (JDC) and the Crossroads Bank Security, about which my colleague from the Justice Department has just mentioned. The Coordination Committee on Intelligence and Security, the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security and the National Security Council also meet on a monthly and ad hoc basis. When we add to this the general common database, which will be expanded in the near future, and the imminent royal decision on terrorism emergency plan, I can say that there are enough tools and platforms to guarantee the exchange of information and information cooperation. I have not received a single signal of growing resistance in this area. The opposite is true. The personal contacts between the various persons responsible ensure a better understanding and understanding of each other's assignments. Regarding the question about BE-Alert, I can tell you that the pilot phase has ended and that BE-Alert has been rolled out nationally since June 2017. Today, 82% of the municipalities have already joined and more than 670,000 addresses have been registered by citizens. In addition to registration, it is also possible to send a message based on the location to attendees in a zone, the so-called Alert SMS. The National Crisis Centre is committed to the further evolution of BE-Alert, in order to maximize the range of alarms and thus their efficiency. On questions from colleagues Taquin, Kitir, Ingels and Vanden Burre about the ASTRID network, I can assure you that the Blue Light system has been tested and is being implemented. Blue Light Mobile's mobile data communication offers tangible benefits in the field. The SIM card also provides access to a private cloud through which rescue services have a secure environment for their own applications. Applications for data exchange between disciplines can also be shared. In the meantime, the structures of the communication groups have been adapted. These new structures and conversation groups were also better named and programmed in the radios of the integrated police. Users were sensitized and the necessary training was provided to ensure more effective use of radio equipment. Several initiatives were taken, including the purchase of a TETRA simulator, the adaptation of the intervention guide field, a poster campaign, articles in Info Revue and a promotional film SICAD, to name but a few. A procedure was developed at federal police level to immediately inform and activate ASTRID in the event of disasters and cataclysms. For Mrs Ingels' question regarding the spectrum story and the 700 MHz broadband, I would like to inform you that ASTRID and the federal police are following this closely and are ready to move quickly with regard to the megahertz. For critical voice and data communications after 2030, the TETRA technology does not offer sufficient possibilities. The solution lies in new broadband technology, the adaptation of 4G to 5G and perhaps its successor, and new techniques that may develop in its tail. This technology will be up-to-date and adapted to the unique needs of the emergency and security services sector, with the necessary priority security and typical functions such as push-to-talk events and group conversations. We're assuming a hybrid model for the future. On the one hand, we use the commercial networks and on the other hand, ASTRID will also make its own investments in certain locations or in certain services where the supply of the commercial providers would be insufficient. A test phase will therefore be set up. The necessary robustness, strength and continuity will also be ensured and ASTRID will ensure communication security and priority for the relief and security services through all kinds of digital trunking services. Negotiations with the federal government, the regulator BIPT and the commercial operators led to a number of KB designs in 2018 and 2019, which regulate the planned auction of the 700 MHz frequencies, but also include agreements and guarantees for the critical mobile communications of the future. The mobile operators are subject to conditions in these draft texts, so that the emergency and security services can count on the same level of coverage, priority, security, confidentiality and availability of communications services, as is the case today. Rapid adoption of the relevant drafts of KB or the elaboration of the relevant articles in separate regulatory decisions is crucial for possible further negotiations and the further development of the new critical mobile communications services. I informed my colleague, the Minister for Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, Mr De Backer, and asked him and his administration to take an initiative on this matter as soon as possible. He told me he's willing to do this. Finally, ASTRID's 2016-2020 business plan provides EUR 123.5 million in investments in its network: - 21 million will be allocated to improve the quality of safety, centralisation and security of the more efficient infrastructure and monitoring system; - 38.5 million will be allocated for the extension of radio coverage and new services (new masts in particular in risk areas, additional relay antennas, new services in the field of mobile data communication, the Blue Light Mobile); - 64 million will be provided for reliability and continuity, the renewal of the radio network, the paging network and the dispatching infrastructure. Mr Colebunders, for your questions on civil protection, I must refer you to the hearings that have taken place and will take place. You asked a question about an alleged shipment of arms to Saudi Arabia. I must refer you to your colleagues from the regional authorities and the Länder, who are responsible for the export licences for weapons. I have already discussed the aspect of the proximity police and the impact of savings on the federal police during the first exchange of views. This also differs from police zone to police zone. The way in which they deal with this is a local competence and belongs to the police college and the police council. As far as Mr Vandenput's question on facial recognition is concerned, I am still waiting for the legal analysis announced by the Commissioner-General. That announcement has turned into an availability today. I will read that note first and then report it to the committee as soon as possible. Then the project will be re-enacted, along with the COC. I am very much in favour of such a project. Nor am I reluctant to extend it. Mrs Kitir, your question about the support of the network in Brussels falls within the competence of the Minister for Telecommunications, as you yourself suspected. In any case, the Crisis Centre has already included this with its own services. I also sent a letter to the Minister responsible for Telecommunications. You also had a question concerning the updating of the Radicalism Action Plan. The Radicalism Action Plan dates from the end of 2015 and is a continuation of the operational cooperation of security services to reduce radicalism and extremism. This is now complemented by a socio-preventive section, which was used by the Länder. Due to the evolution of the phenomenon and the recommendation of the POC, the Parliamentary Training Committee, it was already decided in 2018 to update the Action Plan. On the one hand, it was decided to further develop the multidisciplinary approach and, on the other hand, to emphasise the important role of the local level in early detection, follow-up and guidance of radicalism. A cooperation agreement with the Länder is under preparation to further define the role of all partners in the Local Integrated Safety Cells (LIVCs). The environmental framework was not always clearly defined either. However, due to the current cases, I have had to formally suspend the consultation. Informal negotiations continue and the matter is discussed further. A new government will have to reintegrate this into a formal framework and also initiate consultation with state governments on their competence. I come to Mr Dallemagne's question about the NRP and the measures taken by the government against radicalism and terrorism. As I have already explained in detail in a first exchange of views, the aim is to continue the deployment of the PNR project, which has already been very successful and to extend it to other modes of transport. The extension to trains and buses is currently under way. Since the beginning of 2015, the government has proposed twelve measures to combat radicalism and terrorism, following the Charlie Heddo attack in Paris and the foiled attack in Belgium in January 2016. However, Belgium wondered what it could do to combat radicalism and terrorism since the attacks on the Jewish Museum in Brussels in May 2014 on the eve of the elections. In November 2015, following the Paris attacks, 18 additional measures were added and distributed in four areas: the eradication of hate messages, the concentration of efforts and resources on individuals identified as potentially dangerous, the strengthening of security capabilities of security services, and international action. I propose to send you a separate note on the latest status of these 30 measures. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss in detail certain measures in public sittings, but, as I have just said, most of them have already been implemented. Mr Dallemagne, you asked a question about the closure of the metro network in Brussels. A procedure has been drawn up in collaboration with the Federal Police and the Minister for Mobility of the Brussels-Capital Region. The decision to close the metro network, i.e. the metro station(s) and/or the additional public transport network, is the responsibility of the competent authorities. Once the decision has been taken, the Crisis Centre contacts the Directorate of Administrative Police Operations (DAO), which in turn informs the relevant federal and local police services, and then informs the Crisis Centre of the involvement of the measures. In reply to Mr Ingels and Mr Kitir's questions on the operation of the 112 power stations and the development of their upper provincial structure, I can say that this development is on the schedule. The transformation of 112 emergency power plants from separate islets to connected entities starts on 1 January 2020 and is due to be completed in the course of 2021; the target date is 31 March 2021. The transition will be as follows. First and foremost, all power stations must switch from their own local telephone exchange to a centrally controlled redundant telephone system that allows calls to be sent to further provinces. This central telephony system, which is managed by the ASTRID SA, has now been developed. In addition, a new telephone application will have to be created to link central telephony to the dispatching software. This development has also been completed, although the first functional application of the devices has shown that some minor adjustments are needed here and there to ensure that their operation is optimally linked to the proper handling of calls, inter alia in relation to the tonality of the call signal. Next, the dispatching software to be used by emergency power stations 112, better known as CAD/CityGIS, should be adapted to the new working structure. In the meantime, this issue has also come to the final stage. As I said, the adaptation of emergency power stations 112 will be rolled out in two years, with 31 March 2021 as the end date. The fact that this cannot be done more quickly has to do with training needs and the framework to be developed. Finally, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the question by Mr Vanden Burre on the operation of air inspectors, I can tell you that the inspectors responsible for airport control have been placed under the authority of my colleague Mr François Bellot, Minister responsible for Mobility. As part of the essential tasks plan, the various tasks were listed, as well as the services responsible for carrying them out at the airport. The inspectors under the orders of Brussels Airport Company are responsible for aviation legislation, which also includes certain safety aspects. As I said last time, the facts underlying this follow-up committee are so important that it has made the setting-up of this committee even more valuable than we originally thought. I wish to thank you all for the important work you have done. The recommendations contained in the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorical Attacks are therefore taken very seriously by the government, which means that we are gradually moving towards a more effective and stronger safety chain, which should ensure that our society is kept as safe as possible. I think you are convinced with me that we must continue to collectively arm ourselves against the illusion that there would be such a thing as a zero risk. Despite all the efforts that are being made on a daily basis and all the steps that are being taken by many actors, we must never lose sight of this. I thank you all and count on good cooperation. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: Thank you, Ministers. Are there any replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u3	Minister None, you know that I am particularly interested in the instrument of posting. I heard what you said about that. Did I understand correctly that you said it only serves to delay the end of the sentence? It's more than that anyway. It's a tracking system. That doesn't necessarily have to happen in the cell. This can also be done outside the cell, as used to be the TBR, the provision of government. I thought that was a stick behind the door. I assume that's what you meant. That it is not the intention to follow only in prisons, but also outside. Both should be possible. If one sees that control is not possible or that the adjustment is not possible, then one has a stick behind the door to go back to prison. I agree with you when you say that, if we want to keep that figure, we must also extend to the other terromises. That's not a problem, because that bill is already in place. If we didn't, and if we followed your penal code, are you convinced that the problem will only be solved with a higher degree of punishment? Do you not think that other alternatives are needed to ensure that society is better protected against certain cases? That is not something to be applied constantly, but we are doing so today in vice. In such cases it appears to be really necessary. Only a higher sentence doesn't seem to me to be a solution. We see that difference today between Lelièvre where no TBR was imposed and at Dutroux where it was. We see its impact on sexual offenders. Can't this be extended to terror drives? This was a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry. That is why it has been introduced, and that is why it seems appropriate to extend it. If we didn't do that, we'd need more than just a heavier sentence or a longer sentence. I would have liked to have heard your reply, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u4	Ministers, first of all, I would like to thank you for your extremely detailed answers. The government has done serious work to answer the House's questions. I always come back to my question of methodology, Madam President. As much as I salute the work of the government, I am concerned about the way we work here. Today we have received extremely dull information, which concerns a wide range of areas. In my view, each of them would in itself deserve a debate, complementary questions and follow-up. I am therefore concerned that we are not taking the information provided to us by the government seriously enough. I also regret that we do not want to use a consistent method to be able to follow each of this information. I will take a few examples. Perhaps this will be an opportunity to ask a few additional questions. The means and budgets are obviously crucial, as is the sharing of information. The Minister of Justice told us that the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels was ready to come and give us a presentation on the status of joint information cells and joint decisions cells. This aspect was at the heart of the work of our committee of inquiry: how to share information today, why is it taking so long, why should the extension of these mechanisms still be postponed, what are the possible difficulties? Such issues would require further investigation. We could thus see whether the recommendations of the committee of inquiry remain valid and identify the obstacles to the installation of a Carrefour Bank. Secondly, I am thinking of the issue of prisons. The minister was reassuring, saying that the prison situation had been assessed. For my part, when we read several reports that come to us, I remain concerned. Do Deradex systems work or are they problematic? Radicalism in prison remains a major concern. As such, a strategy should be refined, including through discussion with the Minister, beyond reassuring remarks. We could check how this phenomenon is measured and controlled and also how mechanisms can be developed to reduce it. I'd like to ask you this question. The same for post-detention. The minister has told us today about the mechanisms that exist, but I would like to know whether these devices work in a coherent and effective way, or not. This is an important subject that should be discussed. I would like to take two more examples. The issue of international financing. Again, the minister wanted to be reassuring by telling us that conventions have been signed with third states. I remember that with Saudi Arabia, there was a memorandum of understanding. I'd like to know the results. Are there still international financing? Is there still money coming from abroad? What channels are used? I hear there are still funding channels. They are no longer the same as in the past, because these channels have become complicated. There is no longer any direct financing, it seems, from Saudi Arabia to the Great Mosque. But international financing is still coming from Gulf countries to our country. What is the status of the situation? Can we have a report from CTIF on this? Does the OCAM have a view on these issues? The same goes for the Great Mosque. I heard the mechanism that was developed by the Minister of Justice. Does this mechanism address the concerns of our committee of inquiry? In particular, the commission of inquiry hoped that there would be no foreign influence on the management of the Great Mosque. However, the Belgian Muslim Executive is the current partner and will be one of the important partners. OCAM, in a report, told us that the Belgian Muslim Executive was itself under the control of third countries. This would not correspond to the principle we have put in place, which is that this Great Mosque should be managed solely from Belgium. This is still a very concrete question that I am asking myself on this subject. I am told that cooperation with the Turkish services is, today, excellent. I would like to know and ask the government what is known, for example, about the request for extradition by Belgium, which dates back several years, concerning Yassine Lachiri. He's a terrorist who was close to Abdelhamid Abaaoud. He was sentenced in absentia to 20 years in prison. We have requested an extradition from Turkey. Have we received a response from Turkey? Is there effective cooperation with Turkey? Here are some examples of questions. I also asked Minister De Crem, who did not answer, about safety outside airports, not just air traffic controllers. I have not received an answer on how the security of our airports is organized. I have a feeling that we are not going to be able to deal with these issues seriously if we continue to work on committees that sometimes come together sometimes separately, where we are referred to questions that have already been answered in other committees, and where we do not have an overall view of all these concerns and of the follow-up to our Committee on Terrorist Attacks. That's the question I'm asking you, Madam President. I also asked the ministers a few questions. Would they have any answers to those questions? Last question to the Minister of Justice. He said the trial would have been postponed. The 2020 deadline was originally envisaged; now, as soon as possible, we are talking about the third quarter of 2021, to give priority to the trials that will take place in France. What cooperation exists between France and Belgium on the organisation of these trials? With regard to investigators, exhibits, evidence, etc., what is the level of cooperation between France and Belgium in the organisation of these trials? Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Chairman: Colleagues, since the information has been disseminated, this is a joint meeting of the two committees. I understand that this discussion will continue in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u5	Ministers, thank you for your answers. Mr. Minister of the Interior, it was planned that the Crisis Centre would move to integrate a new infrastructure. This was decided in the summer of 2018 but it is still not effective. We are talking about an investment of about €18 million, which would have already been approved. I know we're in business, but it doesn't seem to take much to do. According to the returns we have from the Crisis Centre, this is becoming urgent. Given that the decision has already been made, does the government intend to finalize this file to allow the Crisis Centre to move?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u6	I would like to thank the two ministers for their detailed answers to the many questions. I'll study their answers further. I would like to reiterate that everyone will agree that our current working methods are not the most efficient. In the past, I have already suggested working on a theme-by-theme basis, because now we are throwing everything into a pile. We must bring both ministers together here at a committee meeting in which we will get a lot of information. The President has already said that an evaluation is planned at the Conference of Presidents. I will put forward alternatives there to follow the recommendations more effectively. After all, it is an important issue and I am pleased that the three ministers, Mr De Block, are also involved in this. We just need to figure out how to work as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u7	Mrs De Wit, I will return to the posting. Even though the instrument has long been in existence, the provision of the government and that of the criminal court often amounts to an extension of the initial sentence, which is permitted by the court, because it is feared that at the end of the sentence someone is not yet ready to be truly released. We have already talked a few times about other modalities, which can be given to the posting. It could also be a mode of execution imposed by the criminal court itself, without prior authorisation by the fundamental court. I myself believe that the distinction between provisional release and the end of the sentence is increasingly worn out. I believe that we have not worked that out sufficiently so far, and I would suggest this to your committee for reflection. Bringing someone to the end of the sentence without ever subjecting him to conditions was an absurd thought. Anyone who wishes to do so can therefore be released in this way, without having to meet any re-infestation condition. I understand less and less how this could have been achieved. The criminal code is under way, so I think it is time to go into it. The second thing I want to say is a partial answer to Mr Dallemagne's question. It is important to make it clear that it is very urgent that we conduct our dialogue on deradicalisation much more inter-federally. We did so with the previous committee on the Courthouses. The Communities are responsible for rehabilitation services in prisons. I don't think we realize that. I'm being asked these questions as if I were responsible, and I want to be. It's not that I don't want to be responsible, but it's not possible because I don't have the skills. We don't know how to do it. For example, Flanders has two deradicalisation officials who work very well but that is little. The French Community has a service of expertise, CAPREV (Centre d'aide et de care à tous enseignement de tous personnes accomplis à les éxtremismes et radicalismes violentes), which is also what it is. It probably gives a lot of information to those involved. What is important in reintegration and the conditions for anyone to return to society is that the individual enjoys a situation of total mental and physical health. Detoxification in relation to drugs and alcohol is a responsibility which should at least be exercised jointly by the Communities. It's so important to the well-being of the litigants. I see what has been done in the last forty years with regard to detoxification. It's revolutionary! When we were younger, there was almost nothing. We put people in the water and bread hoping it was going to be okay. Today, we have a whole detoxification industry at our disposal and I plead for it. But I also plead - this has been refused by the government under the Penal Code - that prisoners should be subjected to treatment even if they do not accept it. You'll probably think of me as a paternalist. Whether they like it or not, we have to treat them because if we don't do it and the person is in pain, what do you want us to do? We're releasing a man we shouldn't have released. Responsibility for...? Experts in the Criminal Code had proposed mandatory treatment. We don't want it in the name of freedom! Freedom is interesting, but after 20 years, it's freedom. And that's the danger! The press is indignant about what the minister did and claims that he committed a fault by releasing a person who should never have been released. This is the front page of all popular newspapers! I plead that the substance of the sentence should be reviewed in terms of conditions and that, together with the Communities, efforts should be made to make compulsory treatment possible. It is interesting that a person is actually detoxified before he or she leaves prison. He'll be happy himself. As for your question about Maelbeek-Zaventerm, there is still the Chamber of Counsel and probably the Chamber of Indictments. There are 1,000 civilian parties. We still think we can use the Poelaert Palace to settle this. I'm not sure we're gonna be able to do it. Let's try. In any event, preparations for the former NATO building are rushed in order to ensure that the very trial, which is expected to last nine months, can be settled in 2021 within this framework. One of the reasons why we are not rushing with regard to the judicial aspect... I am not talking here about the infrastructure because the foundations in Poelaert are currently being renovated superficially to make this board chamber possible. We did the Nemmouche trial. It went well, but it's now much more complicated. We will try to make it work well within the Poelaert Palace. The trial for the Bataclan will first take place in Paris because they are partly the same accused. It's important that there's this sequence. It is therefore first Paris and then Brussels. It rains first there and, at home, a little less.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u8	What about the cooperation between the investigative services and the fact that, in a way, we can benefit from the work that has been done in Paris to speed up the Belgian trial and, conversely, they themselves will be able to benefit from all of our...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u9	The prosecutors in Paris and our federal prosecutor's office are still better friends than the French and Belgian ministers of justice. They cooperate all the time. Don't worry. They exchanged all the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u10	Madam President, there was a question about the relocation of the National Crisis Centre. With regard to the relocation of the Crisis Centre, the decision was made and the final destination is known: the Finance Tower. The file's on its way. If I have any more information, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u11	I have a brief question, Minister. You're talking about an additional sentence being made available, not as a penalty mode. Are you opening a door to make that a modality? Then we'll go on fairly smooth legal ice. That is a long-term issue. The idea triggers me and I would like to discuss it in the Justice Committee. The longer punished will also be released at some point. The idea is to ensure that there is a follow-up mechanism, even after the end of the sentence. This could be done through the posting. That's what I'm talking about, all the more so because you're saying that prisons already require therapy. I agree that we need to work on this as much as possible. The prisoners must be left less to their fate. It's just that when someone is obliged to follow every session, he's not yet cured or better. There must also be a certain will to do so. It's never gonna be waterproof. The follow-up is therefore very important. Will this be done in the form of modality, as an additional penalty or as a security measure? That's where we're in a difficult situation. There are a number of higher decisions that indicate what can or cannot be done. We're gonna have to take a good look at this, but we don't have to do that today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic069x.u12	Madam President, I would like to return to the question of methodology. Following the intervention of my colleague Kitir, who is in the same direction, can we imagine that the three competent committees – Justice, Home Affairs and Health – will make a proposal for a thematic follow-up of all the elements that have already been made available to us, so that we can meet in order to look at the issues and topics in depth? Can a proposal for a methodology be made? I didn't get an answer from you. The proposal to invite the King's attorney was made. It's not worth inviting him like that. This invitation should be placed in the framework of a thematic commission on the issue of information sharing, the joint information cell and JDC. Can the secretariats of the three committees make this proposal? Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, President: I understand that this issue will be debated in the Conference of Presidents anyway. Tomorrow, I understand. So we will soon receive news of how we will be able to follow up the recommendation further. I believe that we can end our meeting now. I would like to thank the ministers and the members of the committee for their contribution to this debate.
