ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u2	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3552: André Frédéric, Gautier Calomne, Emmanuel Burton, Monica De Coninck, Katja Gabriëls, Catherine Fonck, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Brecht Vermeulen, Vincent Van Peteghem - 3553: Monica De Coninck, Brecht Vermeulen, Gautier Calomne, Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre, Emmanuel Burton, André Frédéric. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these proposals. I propose that you devote a single discussion to these proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u3	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Bellens, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u4	We shall begin by discussing the only article of the proposal No. 3552. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3552/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the single article of proposal No 3552. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3552/4) No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Deontological Code will take place later. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposed amendment of the Code of Ethics will take place at a later date. We shall begin by discussing the articles of proposal No. 3553. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3553/4) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of proposal No 3553. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3553/4) The title was changed by the committee to 'draft amending Rules 7 and 163a of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Representatives as regards the incompatibility of the President of the Chamber'. The title has been amended by the committee to "draft amendments to Rules 7 and 163bis of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives with regard to incompatibilities for the Speaker of the House". The proposal contains two articles. The proposal has 2 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u5	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u6	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck, Monica De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u7	D e text adopted by the committee shall form the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3576/3) L he text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3576/3) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open. Mrs Bellens, rapporteur, referred again to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u8	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u9	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u10	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u11	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3561/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3561/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u12	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u13	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Kattrin Jadin, Tim Vandenput, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u14	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Miller, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u15	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in advance of my speech, I would like to make it clear that, in our work in the Committee on External Relations, we have already referred at length to the content of the two opinions received on this bill: the one issued by the Council of State on 25 May 2018 and the one issued by the Data Protection Authority on 8 August 2018. I would also like to remind you that legislators have taken this into account and that corrections have been made to the basic text. So I won't come back. I would like to focus on the concrete measures brought about by this proposal. Through her, my colleagues Tim Vandenput, Vincent Van Peteghem and I propose four amendments to the Consular Code. The first is the legalization of foreign documents. There are more and more problems with the "true false" documents for which the signature and capacity of the signatory do not pose any problems but whose content is not in line with reality. Today, it is not possible to refuse the document at a later stage when its contents pose a problem. The amendment is therefore intended to allow such refusal in case of serious doubt as to the authenticity of the content. The Belgian authority may indeed request an investigation into this aspect. Second, the grounds for refusal and withdrawal of identity cards are not consistent with those of passports and travel documents. The proposed amendment is therefore intended to bring compliance into line. Thirdly, the provisions introduced by the Act of 10 August 2015 already amending the Consular Code, such as those relating to the refusal of passports, were not fully compatible with the procedures applied by the judicial authorities and the security services. The amendment that I present to you improves the compatibility, effectiveness and cooperation between the Consular Code, the judicial authorities and the security services of our country. Fourthly, the Council of State recommends, in its opinion of 20 June 2018, that the processing of personal data necessary for Belgian passports and travel documents should be better regulated. We therefore propose to provide a legal framework for automated data processing in the Passban data bank. In practical terms, and in view of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), an article is therefore inserted providing that certain personal data from existing identity fraud files may be used in the context of identity fraud training. On the other hand, and this is a point that deserves to be stressed, strictly personal data such as family name or place of birth will not be used. I would like to point out that our consular network carries out essential tasks in order to protect our nationals abroad, as well as administrative tasks such as issuing identity documents and passports and issuing visas. The consulate also performs security missions. For example, it can assist our citizens in the event of difficulties with local authorities in some countries. Should we recall the importance of this role in some parts of the world? These people are also at the service of our fellow citizens abroad and are on the front line to help and comfort them in emergency situations. Modernizing the Consular Code is essential to further improve this service, proximity and, above all, efficiency. It is in this idea that I propose to support these amendments to the Consular Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u16	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u17	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3574/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3574/3) The bill has 17 articles. The bill has 17 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u18	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u19	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Steven Vandeput, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u20	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3538/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3538/4) The title was changed by the Commission to "draft law amending the Act of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, the Law of 17 June 2016 on concession contracts, the Law of 13 August 2011 on public procurement and certain works, supply and service contracts in the field of defence and security and amending the Law of 4 May 2016 on the re-use of public sector information'. The title has been amended by the commission into "draft law amending the law of 17 June 2016 on public procurement, the law of 17 June 2016 on concession contracts, the law of 13 August 2011 on public procurement and certain contracts for works, supplies and services in the field of defence and security and amending the law of 4 May 2016 on the reuse of public sector information". The draft law has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u21	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u22	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Rita Bellens, Frank Wilrycx, Benoît Friart, Servais Verherstraeten, Nele Lijnen, Leen Dierick, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u24	Mr President, at the request of the committee members I refer to the written report. I would then like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u25	I shall first give the floor to the first petitioner, Mrs Smaers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know people who have had to deal with a serious medical condition such as cancer in the past, but not just cancer. Although the treatment has been successful and the disease is in the past, they are often still faced with the consequences of the disease later on. For example, when they want to buy a house and take out balance insurance, they often refuse insurance or have to pay higher premiums. With this legislative proposal, we want to offer a solution, so that people who have had a serious medical condition in the past will also have the opportunity to take out balance insurance without having to pay an additional premium as a result of their illness. According to the French example, the bill introduces a right to be forgotten. The candidate insured person still has to report his medical history, such as a cancer disease. However, where the person concerned has been declared cured for more than 10 years, the insurance undertaking may not take account of the condition, may not refuse the insurance or charge an additional premium. The proposal provides for a reference schedule to be set for cancer diseases and chronic diseases for which a period of less than 10 years will apply. The reference roster is inspired by the French reference roster. A draft was already delivered to the members of the Business Committee after that was requested. Colleagues, the legislative proposal was drawn up after the preparatory work of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Consumer Affairs, Mr Peeters. It meets the proposals of the consumer and patient associations in the Committee on Insurance. The proposal is also based on French legislation. There have been many questions from several Members in the Business Committee over the past few years in order to provide an answer to the problems raised. My bill represents a significant step forward for those who have faced such a serious medical condition in the past. I therefore hope for the support of all the groups. During the discussion in the Committee on Business, it was found that there was broad support for the principle. I know that a lot of Members were asking parties to go further. In the course of the discussion, we indicated that the proposal was a first step. At that time we were not able to work out a regulation for several insurance contracts but only for the balance of debt insurance. CD&V wants to work on this in the future, and personally I want to. As has already been said in committee, this is a first important step on which a great deal of consultation has already taken place between patients' associations, the Insurance Committee and, for example, the Foundation against Cancer, which has done a lot of work in this area. It's an important first step. The work is certainly not finished for all those people who once suffered from a serious illness, but we have set another beacon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Smaers said, anyone who has ever been seriously ill and has been declared cured is often still suffering from difficulties, for example when he wants to take out balance insurance. As a result of the disease, the insurance applicant sometimes presents an increased risk to the insurance company, which often means that the insurance premiums to be paid are very high, not to say priceless. The purpose of this legislative proposal is to introduce solidarity into the law, so that the persons in question do not have to pay such high premiums and can more easily take on mortgage credit. They will still have to publish their medical history in their insurance application, but after a period of 10 years it will no longer be allowed to be included in the calculation of the premium. First of all, we are talking about cancer, but the bill provides for the possibility for the government to draw up a reference schedule which may also contain other diseases. For certain types of cancer and chronic diseases, the term would be even shorter than ten years. There were a number of questions about the ten-year period, which one finds rather long. However, should the time limit always be lower than 10 years, this would entail very high costs for insurance companies and thus lead to higher premiums for policy holders who have not previously been ill. Our main concern is that this system should not result in policy holders who have not been ill before being overpaid. Since the list of reference grids drawn up by the Federal Health Knowledge Centre is evidence based, higher premiums should no longer be allowed. That should also apply to the additions to the list. The Knowledge Centre may also set the time limit after which insurance companies may no longer charge a supplement to the policy holder. Because this system also preserves the rights of the non-sick, we naturally support this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, chronic patients or former cancer patients have more difficulty accessing property than others. Indeed, to subscribe to a mortgage, you all know, you need balance insurance that is still due. However, for these people such insurance is simply impayable and therefore inaccessible. That is why, in 2010, we passed the Partyka-Lalieux Act, which provided for several measures to limit the amount of insurance premiums, subject these premiums to control, and regulate questionnaires and medical examinations. It was ten years ago the result of collective work by this Parliament in the general interest. Unfortunately, this law did not go far enough. In May 2018, an overall assessment of this regulation showed that it had several shortcomings. Even today, people who have been ill often suffer double or triple sentences. Not only do they have to cope with the disease and often suffer a significant drop in income, but access to property, which is of great importance, especially in order to secure a future, is made difficult, if not impossible, because of the attitude of the insurance companies. Even healed these people continue to bear the stigma of the disease many years later before insurance. For this reason, in 2018, the PS Group tabled a bill that included eight measures to improve access to outstanding balance insurance for sick people. Of course, these measures include the right to be forgotten, but that is not all. We also proposed better protection of medical data for insurance claimants, better monitoring of insurers' decisions, and greater socialization of premium costs. I have placed this proposal on the agenda of the Economy Committee as a priority with the wish to hold a real debate in Parliament and with the actors on the ground. Ladies and gentlemen, the text before us today in plenary is a first step, a good decision in the right direction. We will obviously support the text before us. Nevertheless, I have two regrets. The first is that we have not been able to hold this ambitious debate on the insurance of people with increased health risks. On the contrary, the debate was confiscated by the minister, who is not even present tonight. It is to be believed that he is not interested in parliamentary debates, particularly those relating to the sick. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u29	No, I'm not talking about you, minister. You've been here all along. That's remarkable! No, Mr. Peeters should have been here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u30	I'm entitled to forget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u31	Maybe you'll get it soon! In any case, we would have liked Mr Peeters to be present with us. Indeed, the bill before us...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u33	No, I'm not going to say that, Mrs. Onkelinx.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u35	He also has the right to forget, perhaps soon. I would like to ask Mr Peeters something, with whom unfortunately we cannot discuss this evening. I imagine Mrs. Smaers will pass on my question to her. First of all, I regret that we have not been able to undertake a comprehensive reform. Secondly, I regret that the legislation is not committed to much. He only assures – and that's what it is – that, for patients whose cancer cures go back 10 years, insurers will no longer be able to take it into account in determining the current state of health. For these people, the law is therefore clear. For the rest, the law provides – and I have criticized it in committee, of course – that the King can do this or that. That's why – and I didn't get just smiles at the time – I beat in committee and asked for a second reading, so as to get royal orders. Otherwise, the law remained empty. I thanked Mr Peeters – and this does not happen every day – for providing us, between the first and second readings, with the royal decrees, which repeated all our amendments, although they had been criticized at the time. Today I ask the absent Deputy Prime Minister to persist in this gesture of goodwill. Ten years ago, we were told: "Trust the sector! We are not going to include everything in the Partyka law." However, you know that insurers have tried everything they can to avoid applying the law, in particular by bringing an appeal to the Constitutional Court. So nothing will have been spared to patients and consumers. So I think we should have locked things up in a law. We didn't. What I am asking very clearly here is that these royal decrees be published before the end of the legislature to show the right course and to definitely show that insurers cannot do anything with people who have had cancer or who suffer from chronic diseases. These people must no longer experience double or triple punishment as they have been living for years. Mrs Smaers, you who have brought this bill, I hope you will pass it on to Mr Peeters. If he actually publishes the orders, we will think that this is a first victory for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u36	Mr President, in committee we discussed the legislative proposal before us in detail. I will not repeat everything in detail, but briefly outline the broad lines for those who were not present. The bill precedes a long history. Indeed, patients' and consumer organisations such as Test Purchase have been asking for a text for a long time, as it is currently under discussion. Test-Achats is always extremely alert to consumer issues and in this case for ex-patients or patients who control their disease. About six months ago, I myself tabled various economic provisions to the law to include in that text the right to be forgotten when a serious illness was declared to be cured. The then majority voted away my idea, arguing that it would be presented to Parliament at a later stage. I was very concerned about this, because we often hear in committee meetings that a proposal will be drawn up later. I am therefore pleased that we were able to hold the debate and reach a consensus. At the first reading in the Committee on Business, I raised a great many objections and expressed my concern, Mr Smaers may remember this, because the text still contained many uncertainties. The original proposal was rather a proposal for a law of principle, with a large number of royal decrees still to be clarified. I found the text far too scary and too much written to be tailored to the insurers and not to the policyholders and ex-patients. Finally, Minister Peeters' cabinet staff provided us with a list of conditions and a reference table before the second reading, as Mrs Lalieux mentioned, which is very closely in line with the French system we want. The provisions respond to our initial concerns, as we now know the list of diseases. The waiting time to be forgotten is based on medical scientific insight and varies from one year for breast cancer, for example, to three to eight years for other diseases. Originally, the proposed waiting period was ten years, but that is a very long time for people who are already living in misery and that was reduced after discussion. That really is an improvement on the current situation. Of course, it can always be better, and that is why we believe that the list should be adapted periodically and in line with scientific and medical progress. The number of insurance types could also be increased. Anyway, what we are discussing here today is really a first step in the right direction. Our group will therefore give its full support to the proposal, as I have already done in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u37	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u38	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3524/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3524/5) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 and introducing a right to be forgotten for certain personal insurances". The title in French has been amended by the commission in "proposal for a law amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 and introducing a right to be forgotten for certain personal insurances". The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u39	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u40	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stefaan Vercamer, Jan Spooren, David Clarinval, Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Nahima Lanjri, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u41	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Thoron. It shall refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u42	Mr President, a few points on the social aspect of the deal. First of all, I regret that earlier we did not have the 50 votes to request the opinion of the Council of State on an important amendment. Despite the positive momentum of our President, some parties have prevented this. This bill is part of a package of 28 measures that the MR-N-VA government approved in the framework of the 2019 budget, before any consultation with the Regions, with the social partners; and this, in a logic, not to say essentially, budgetary: to bring 500 million euros for the 2019 budget. This estimate of EUR 500 million has been challenged by the Court of Auditors. Last December, the government fell and the 2019 draft budget was withdrawn. So this deal job was no longer necessary for the budget to keep going. But despite this, the four parties of the old majority still agreed to propose this deal. However, I wanted to point out that the degressive nature of unemployment benefits is an exception. It's not included in the package that we have here tonight. We can rejoice at this: at least one attack that could not be carried out by the parties of the former majority. Having said that, despite the fact that we have been able to avoid this element, there are still points in the social aspect of this trade jobs which I would like to stress and which we will vote against. They will determine our overall vote. These are, first of all, articles 4 and 5, on the wages of young people. Indeed, we will remember the March 2018 Recovery Act, in which the MR-N-VA government chose to discriminate against young people under the age of 21 by reducing their salary from 6 to 18 per cent. These were the famous starter jobs. The government and the majority had provided that the employer who lowers a young person's salary must pay him a lump sum supplement, allegedly to compensate for the net. We denounced the measure by asking if this supplement would really compensate for the net. We were right. This lump sum supplement would not compensate for the actual loss. But you are again proposing a measure that is nothing but a different thing. This shows once again the lack of seriousness of the former government and the former majority who come back with a suitable proposal. It is clear that this system is preferable, and better than the one envisaged at the time. However, it is clear that the social partners are unanimously unfavourable, for obviously different reasons. But this remains unfavorable for young people, and I will talk about that aspect. Not only is it discriminatory, it once again creates internal dumping between the categories of workers, but it also has indirect effects on the social rights of these young people. We will vote against these articles. I wanted to highlight this aspect. I would also like to highlight another one. This is the education clause for jobs in need. A school-leaving clause is to oblige a worker who has received specific training at the employer's expense during the performance of his employment contract, to reimburse the employer in part if he leaves his employer within a specified period of time. There are safeguards to ensure that the worker is in some way enslaved to his employer and can no longer leave him at the risk of having to repay considerable sums. Here, one of the safeguards is blown up by obliging the worker to repay training provided for in the regulatory or legal framework. The social partners have given a divided opinion on the issue, employers being obviously for and against workers – rightly, I think. So that is another issue that we will oppose. Overall, we can only oppose this social deal which is still an attack on workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u43	Mr President, at the beginning of the sitting I said that, like in recent years, even now, months later, we are still in the process of implementing a bad and hasty Summer agreement from the previous government. Today we are talking about a number of measures from the so-called job deal. Fortunately, the worst measure in the job deal, namely the increased degressivity of unemployment benefits, is not in the present legislative proposal. If the change of government has had an advantage, then it is. That still does not make the present proposal a good one. On the contrary, this proposal also includes anti-social measures at the expense of workers. First of all, I am talking about reducing minimum wages for young people. That's a disgrace, a real disgrace. A whole structure is now being set up to pretend that the young people will not lose their net wages. This construction is not only unworkable, it does not prevent young people from building up less social rights. The benefits are based on gross wages and, by reducing gross wages, social rights are reduced. The whole struggle that we have waged to give young people equal pay for equal work is nullified. A second measure which my group considers unacceptable is the extension of the training clause. The training clause means that an employee who has followed a training course at the employer's expense must repay the formal costs if he leaves the undertaking within a specified period of time. This is, in itself, a remarkable arrangement, especially at a time when there are still far too few training efforts being made. It also restricts the mobility of workers. This proposal even extends the training clause to training in the context of a bottleneck profession, even if this results from a legal or regulatory obligation to be able to exercise the profession. One just needs to be explained. There are also measures in the proposal that we can understand. An outplacement for workers who are dismissed because of medical force majeure is not illogical, but it would be much better for them to receive a cancellation allowance. After all, if we look at the antisocial policy on the reintegration of long-term sick people, it has actually become just a discharge machine. Seventy percent of the controlled persons are now dismissed without compensation. Finally, we can support the measure to provide for a temporary right to disability insurance for those who continue to work after the retirement age. Moreover, the latter measure was the only one to receive a favourable opinion from the social partners. All other measures received negative advice. So please do not tell me that the government considers social dialogue to be important. For all these reasons, our group will not support the job deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, I am not going to repeat the various criticisms I made in committee with regard to this bill disguised as a bill, since this legislation applies part of the deal jobs concluded last summer by the government, when it was still the majority. I will only briefly highlight one aspect that goes through this text, namely the myth of the shortage of jobs. In this context, once again we can say that the shadow of the FEB is hovering over our legislative work. Indeed, on June 18, 2018, the FEB was sounding the alarm saying that, I quote: "The shortage in the labour market hinders economic growth". Just a month later, the Minister of Employment said: "The shortage is a threat to economic growth". It is almost word for word the same terms. The FEB added, and this is where it becomes even more interesting, that, again, I quote: "Uncontrollable wage increases could also threaten the competitiveness of our companies". It is therefore within this framework that we must read the proposal before us here. It can be seen that the myth of job shortage serves as an alibi to a series of measures aimed at getting people to work longer and longer, to increase gifts to employers and to carry out an activation policy aimed at exerting downward pressure on wages. This activation policy, which is reflected in many provisions of this government and precedents, pushes people (unemployed, pre-pensioners, sick people, beneficiaries of social integration income) to accept any job at any working conditions and at any wage. We have a boss who always invokes employment to receive gifts and other measures in favour of competitiveness but who, in reality, has a blue fear of full employment, because who says full employment says a balance of power more favourable to workers, especially in the context of wage negotiations which are also topical. It is therefore within the framework of this employers' strategy that we must read the text before us here, a text which we will obviously not support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u45	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u46	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3464/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3464/7) The bill has 34 articles. The bill has 34 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u47	Art. 4 • 53 – Meryame Kitir cs (3464/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u48	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u49	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 4 to 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u50	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 3 and 12 to 34.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u51	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u52	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3546: Stefaan Vercamer, Nahima Lanjri, Zuhal Demir - 3600: Frédéric Daerden, Jean-Marc Delizée, Olivier Henry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u53	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Fonck, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u54	Mr President, this bill comes just in time so that the social elections can be properly prepared. We have made three important changes, which I would like to draw attention to. Firstly, there will be the right to vote for temporary workers if they were employed for 91 days in the company. This is an important innovation. There was little point in giving them the right to vote in their temporary agency, since the conditions of employment of the interims are determined in the undertaking where they are employed. Work and leave arrangements are also agreed on in the works council of the company where they are employed. This is an important adjustment that we have added. Secondly, simplification has also been introduced to the register in order to reduce the administrative burden on employers. Thirdly, we are also taking an important step towards digitalisation by allowing voters to vote electronically from their usual workplace. This is done via a carrier connected to the secure network of the company. This, too, is a new and important step in further digitisation. We think it is a very good proposal that we will fully support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 11 to 24 May 2019 the social elections within companies will take place. These elections, which take place every four years, are an important democratic moment, since they allow workers to elect their representatives to the works council and to the Committee for Prevention and Protection at Work. The proposal before us is the result of the assessment made by the social partners of the regulations which was applied during the social elections in 2016 and taken up in the opinion 2103 of the National Labour Council (CNT). There have been significant changes, including the anticipation of the period for calculating the worker threshold, the digitization of certain stages of the procedure, the conditions for maintaining the mandate of worker representative and the rules for replacing delegates. All this to say that the proposal before us is a legal reflection of the recommendations made by the social partners. In the course of the debate, three amendments were adopted: the second on electronic voting and the last on the abolition of the register of workers. We supported them, but we did not support the first amendment which gives the interims the right to vote. Why didn't we support him? Simply because it is necessary to recall that, by Article 7 of Directive 2008/104, interim workers are already taken into account not only in the calculation of the thresholds for the establishment of consultation bodies in the undertaking, but also in the establishment of the number of mandates to be filled. It should also be recalled that temporary workers in an undertaking enjoy exactly the same rights, wage advantages and working conditions as any worker. It can be clearly said that temporary workers exercise their rights through the vote of permanent workers. Beyond the fact that temporary workers can be considered to be already well represented within the company, there are other aspects to be taken into account. It should be added that no category of external collaborators has the right to vote in companies (no consultants or subcontractors). Why therefore want to give the right to vote to temporary workers who, by definition, are not members of the undertaking either? Moreover, by granting temporary workers the right to vote in accordance with the arrangements laid down, there is a great risk of creating a difference in treatment between permanent and temporary workers in relation to electoral conditions. Another risk is the likelihood of recourse by trade unions to workers who have the right to vote or not. Finally, to go back to the procedures for calculating the length of service of the temporary worker, it seems to me important to point out the additional administrative burden which will be imposed on undertakings. What is also surprising is that, on the one hand, temporary workers are given a right but, on the other hand, when a company is on strike, temporary workers cannot work. At that time, they were viewed differently by denying them access to the business. We would have liked them, if they were granted the right to vote, to enter the company, as is the case with other workers in the event of a strike. That is why we did not vote on the amendment concerning the voting rights of the interim parties. Having said that, however, we will vote for the proposal, as it broadly reflects the agreement of the CNT as agreed between the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u56	Mr President, I would like to briefly explain my party's position. We hope that temporary workers will not be employed in a company for many years. We have put forward several proposals to limit this. The reality is different today. That is why we think it would be useful to give such employees, who are employed in a company, the right to vote in the social elections. That is why our party will approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u57	Mr President, we will support this proposal. We welcome the progress it represents for temporary workers, while regretting that some of the elements of our supplementary proposal and of the amendments tabled with the Sp.a have not been accepted, including sanctions for barriers to social elections or the notion of gender analysis for the employer's bench. In spite of this, we will support this proposal in order to enable social democracy in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u58	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u59	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3546/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3546/6) The bill has 35 articles. The bill has 35 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u60	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u61	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, David Clarinval, Vincent Van Quickenborne. Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you that amendments have been tabled to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u62	Mr President, as authors of this proposal, we have tabled a whole series of amendments, in particular in connection with the office of the Minister of Pensions. We propose to remove the item from the agenda so that it can be discussed in committee as soon as possible. We hope to be able to come back next week with this amended text. The amendments we are proposing are a response to Mrs Becq's request on the interest rates that were applied to certain pension funds. I don't have the technical details in mind anymore. I propose that you discuss this in the Social Affairs Committee next week and, if possible, come back next Thursday with the amended text, we hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u63	That's what I was gonna suggest. I take it there are no objections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u64	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veerle Wouters, Peter Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u66	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (23/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (23/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u67	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u68	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3559: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Roel Deseyn, Luk Van Biesen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Philippe Goffin, Peter Dedecker, Ahmed Laaouej, Benoît Dispa, David Clarinval, Olivier Chastel - 3234: Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Olivier Chastel, David Clarinval, Benoît Piedboeuf, Vincent Scourneau, Gauthier Calomne, Philippe Goffin, Stéphanie Thoron, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux. Siegfried Bracke - 3273: Georges Dallemagne, Benoît Dispa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u70	Mr President, I refer, of course, to the written report. I would like to point out, however, that it is rather odd that I am the rapporteur, since I am also the main signatory. I assume, however, that no one in this hemisphere will make it a problem, as this is a very good thing. However, I would just like to say that I made a mistake here by volunteering as rapporteur. However, I was happy to do so because of the content.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u71	We will forgive ourselves for this kind of mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see a proposal that I have been making at the end of this Parliament for many months, first in the form of a resolution and then in the form of a bill. According to some data from the field, the destruction of non-food items of current consumption in Belgium would amount to about 100 million. It is enormous and not without damage, whether it be at the social or environmental level, because these resources could benefit those who need them most, rather than being thrown away and wasted. Today, fortunately, we have part of the solution in our hands. Indeed, if companies are already trying to avoid waste, we all know that the production and distribution process, even if optimized, brings its share of unsold. It is at this level that we intervene. At present, when a gift of goods is made by a company, the payment of VAT on the value of the gift is required. In doing so, it is very quickly understood that the destruction of the property is the preferred route, since in this case VAT is not due. It is therefore this path that most companies have decided to take. However, if we listen to companies, we find that many would not be reluctant to donate their unsold ones, if it did not cost them so much. For your information, they already give goods for an approximate value of three million. Thanks to these donations, the Goods to Give platform is already helping 372 charities and 270,000 people. Of course, we can do much better. I told you about 100 million. If we say 3.5 million, it's never a very small proportion. In an optimistic person, I think that, as a result, more than 95% of the effort remains to be made, that there is a significant margin of progress that the entrepreneurial world is prepared to fill if it is helped. Today, we have the means to change this destructive and wasteful behaviour and to correct the distortions caused by the system that was put in place. That is why I made this proposal. Let us pave the way for the non-application of VAT on non-food goods, as we did in 2013 for food goods by providing a framework. These donations cannot be given to anyone. We open this path only to the exclusive benefit of charitable associations and institutions in charge of the fight against poverty, provided that there is sufficient traceability. What is important, in my view, is that these unsold ones benefit above all the poorest and the organizations that help them. It is also necessary that the nature of these goods be limited to basic needs, that they bring real social added value, that they have a concrete effect on the quality of life and on the well-being of those who benefit from it. What does not spoil anything is that the cost of this measure is limited. Indeed, today, the destroyed property does not bring any euro of VAT to our public funds, and I hope that tomorrow it will be given. I do not hide from you that I am glad that my appeal has been so well received by all the parties in this assembly. Many joined me in co-signing this bill. I thank my colleagues for their contributions to the committee and congratulate them on the unanimity which has resulted and which I hope will continue this evening in plenary. In conclusion, I believe that this shows that what directly benefits the citizen, who creates a social bond, can still cross partisan barriers and bring together large majorities to make common sense decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we can fully support the very interesting proposal before us. After all, it is amazing that when a trader destroys his unsold stock, the VAT can be recovered, but when he gives it away to a charity, it costs him that money, because he cannot recover the VAT. This, of course, leads to waste; what is not good for the environment and what is a missed opportunity in the fight against poverty. The proposal has long been under way. As early as 2013, it was already decided that VAT would no longer be levied on unsold foods donated to authorised food banks. In 2015, Minister Van Overtveld expanded the scheme to include unsaleable foods that are donated to local authorities and recognised charitable institutions. That initiative was legally anchored in 2018. With this legislative amendment, we are taking the next step and will also be able to donate the vital non-food products that cannot be permanently used in a sustainable way without VAT. That is a very good thing. I would like to point out, however, that an amendment was tabled in committee to prevent abuse of the exemption. That is why there is a slight discrepancy between the original explanatory statement and the text that was finally adopted. I would like to make it clear what we mean by the term 'necessary non-food products, other than goods which can be used in a sustainable manner, whose intrinsic characteristics prevent them from being sold in any link of the economic circuit under the original marketing conditions'. This is perhaps a complex concept, but it is important to avoid creating some sort of black second-hand circuit, which would, of course, be a form of unfair competition with regard to the many local regular retailers. In this way we limit the measure to donations to charity; there can no longer be donated to anyone. We also exclude goods that can be used in a sustainable way, i.e. goods that could subsequently be passed on or sold to another person. We want to avoid such matters. It cannot be goods that lend themselves to parallel trade. The original explanatory memorandum contains a number of examples of goods which can be used permanently and which, according to the adopted text, are no longer eligible. I would like to point out that these are unsustainable goods. Goods that can be donated without VAT are food products, toothpaste, toothbrushes, soap and laundry products, shampoo, beauty and basic care products, plastic toys, diapers, ballpoint pens, in short consumables. The exemption does not, of course, apply to durable goods such as pushchairs, mattresses, microwave ovens, drying cabinets and hobs. These cases clearly lend themselves to resale and can create a parallel black circuit. We want to avoid that at all times. The King is given the task of ensuring that parallel trading circuits are not created. The aim is to combat waste and to step up the fight against poverty. That is a very noble and good cause, hence our full support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u74	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3559/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3559/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Code in order to exempt donations of non-food products to the most deprived persons from VAT." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Value Added Tax Code with a view to exempting from VAT donations of non-food goods to the poorest." The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u77	This proposal was adopted by the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions under Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal was adopted by the Scientific and Technological Affairs Advisory Committee pursuant to Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure. The text adopted by the Advisory Committee is the basis for discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (3685/1) The text adopted by the opinion committee provides the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3685/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u78	Mr President, I refer to the written report. However, I would like to intervene on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u79	I know. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u80	Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the dossier, because the subject was discussed in committee at the request of our group. After all, we in the Committee on Health have found that there are many problems and, above all, gaps in the registration of health data. For example, look at how many patients pay extra and the data on pay supplements. We know from some data and especially from third parties that the supplements charged in Wallonia are twice as high as those in Flanders, but the government does not keep that data. I find it odd that we don't know how much more our patients have to pay. For example, obesity figures are six years behind. The latest health survey dates back to 2013. Today, we are still relying on these figures because we are unable to keep records, which are very well kept in patient files by our caregivers, in a proper central position in a register. How many people are overweight and obese? We don't know. How many people have diabetes? How many people have epilepsy? We don't know. We also don't know much about the use of care. I have written two resolutions on improving care for people with diabetes and epilepsy, because we do not have those data. We don't know how many people have epilepsy today, because we don't keep a record of diagnostics. We do not know what kind of care these people are receiving today and whether they are adequate. We do not know which care offers added value for which patients. In fact, we only have expenditure figures. When I ask you how many people with epilepsy are there, I get the answer that people will check how much antiepileptic drugs were spent. That is also wet fingering, because this medication also has other applications such as migraine. This is shared by the number of DDDs and a large estimate of the number of patients is made. So we don't know that. The same applies to obesity. I put that in the press last week. We know that there is a major problem of overweight. Fortunately, there is bariatry available for many people, but we do not know what effect this has. Do patients fall out of it sustainably? From recent scientific literature we know that we recover one in four after the procedure. Is that also the case with our patients? Are they well assisted by bariatrie or should there be supportive measures for dietetics and psychological support? We do not know that today. Our policy is largely wet fingering, which is hallucinating, because the budget for public health amounts to around EUR 30 billion. That is why we have discussed the subject in the Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions. We asked that we look at how this data could be better recorded. We have referred to Sweden's guide country. The different Scandinavian countries are doing a lot better. They keep anonymised aggregated data from their entire population and can capture demographic trends, guide their policies and monitor their spending much better. Of course, this also has a lot to do, as we know from our work visit, with the fact that these countries are organized on a decentralised basis. The provinces can not only collect the income, but they can also spend it in full. With us, in this monkey country, that is of course a total utopia. We have nine different responsibilities. But that's completely out of the question. Measuring is knowing. That is why I have written a resolution which should lead us a little bit towards the Scandinavian guide countries. It is a pity that it has become what it is today, the hollowed-out proposal that is before us today. Anyway, we are already heading in the right direction. It's better than making promises and not keeping them, as you said when you said you were starting pilot projects to register data. I believe you mentioned the data on lung cancer at the time. I haven't seen anything of that until today, so many years later. Perhaps the resolution can give you a push in the right direction today to work on that registration. I certainly hope so. If we had data, we could know how the EUR 30 billion, for which the Flame must work hardest to contribute them to our social security, goes exactly where it leads. We could therefore steer our policy much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u81	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the members of the Scientific and Technological Advisory Committee, as well as all those who have contributed actively to the drafting of this motion for a resolution on the use of big data in the health sector. Just as was the case in the work that led to the resolution on autonomous vehicles in 2016, our committee worked in a constructive and consensual spirit. I also thank the many experts we received during the ten hearing sessions, which reflect the in-depth work done on the use of big data in the health sector, a subject that is as complex as it is interesting and sensitive. Experts have enabled us to identify issues related to the development and use of this data. As chairman of this committee of opinion, I am particularly pleased and proud to bring this motion for a resolution before you in plenary session, first of all because it has been unanimously approved by the political groups present in the committee (this was indeed the hallmark of the committee throughout the legislature), but also because it symbolises a collective awareness of the importance for us, as legislators, of being part of the reality of a changing world, by trying to better understand and anticipate the technological innovations that are shaking our society today. Digitalization leads to an increase in the number of data generated, and the health sector does not escape it. The importance of their protection, conservation and analysis takes on considerable proportions. Currently, there is no common management or even systematic standardized management of data collection and retention in the health sector. As a result, the data value chain is quickly broken, and the potential of big data is not exploited. However, these big data are an extremely rich mine with many advantages. They can enhance the effectiveness of diagnostics and therapies, predict more accurately the onset of certain conditions, or develop a more personalized approach to health care. They also allow for better detection of fraud in the health care sector. Thus, big data and data export can significantly improve our health policy and the allocation of public resources. The challenges of exponential growth of big data are numerous, starting with the risk of systematic surveillance of physicians or the violation of medical confidentiality or therapeutic freedom. It is also essential to be able to ensure the balance in which every individual, regardless of his or her risk profile, can access health care and must be protected from any risk of abuse of his or her health data. If the beacons set by the recent GDPR allow us to be reassured, we also strongly urge that a real climate of trust be built around this new give in health care, in order to make its effectiveness as effective as possible. This confidence must be the result of a high level of transparency and impartial control. Today, it would be illusory to think that it is possible to shrink in the face of the growth of data and their use. Rather, the role of the legislator is to move forward, while guiding this evolution of society and how health care is managed as best as possible. The sharing of health data must be developed for the benefit of continuity and improvement of care. The European legislative framework should serve as a guide, in particular through its provisions providing for the free movement of data, clear and proactive information to the persons concerned, the increased responsibilities of each data-processing actor and the strengthening of control and sanctions. With this motion for a resolution, we ask the federal government: - to build a vision with all stakeholders involved in the health care sector to support health policy on big data and data exploration; - to map, in collaboration with the Communities and Regions, existing databases and exchanges between them; - to ensure that hospitals and doctors can always maintain complete freedom of therapy; - to ensure that patients can always freely consent to the use of their health data outside the exceptions provided for in the GDPR; - to optimize the availability of health data for scientific research purposes; - to inform the House of Representatives each year by means of a progress report; - to contribute to the development of a climate of trust between the health actors involved in data processing processes; - to support projects for the computer management of health data, the sharing and processing of such data from co-operatives of healthcare providers or other non-commercial initiatives and to avoid the establishment of monopolies in these areas. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this whole Parliament, we have worked on complex issues, with all due seriousness, in a constructive and consensual state of mind. The Science and Technology Advisory Committee is a good tool. I hope that it can be strengthened and modernized under the coming legislature, because in the face of the ever-increasing technological complexity, legislators need such support to guide them effectively in their legislative choices and to help them exercise real control. Thank you for listening and for the confidence that you will not fail to bring to this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u82	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u83	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vanessa Matz, Olivier Maingain, Eric Van Rompuy, Benoît Dispa. The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes that this bill be rejected. (3485/4) The Committee on Finance and the Budget proposes to reject this bill. (3485/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteurs, MM. Calomne and Gilkinet, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a little over 15 days have passed since the Finance Committee and the rejection of this important proposal which called for taxing the GAFAs. If I submit it again tonight, it is because I hope a salutary break for three reasons. The first reason is for greater tax justice. When we know that currently, GAFAs pay an average of 9% of taxes in Europe and that a so-called classic company pays 24%, there is tax inequity. At a time when citizens are demanding more tax justice, we have a lever to enable fair taxation that is far from fully fair taxation, since we are asking for a 3% GAFA tax. So we're still a long way from it. Of course, the most relevant level is the European level for taxing, but in the face of Ecofin's failure to agree on a GAFA tax, several European states have taken concrete initiatives on the subject: France, Austria, Italy and Spain. Why not Belgium? The second reason why voting this tax would be beneficial is in order to combat unfair competition that GAFAs are currently leading towards small digital companies that do not have the means to resist this unfair competition because they are subject to an average tax of 24% in Europe. The third reason why this tax should be voted on tonight is that, contrary to popular ideas, digital giants have a huge ecological footprint. Some experts place it at the aviation level. When we want means to accompany the energy transition, this is a pocket that could be used to support social and human taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for a break. It is known that this text is a draft directive which has been submitted by Ecofin and which has been legally validated. It is intended to tax the economic activities of these GAFAs. It is not a profit that can be moved to countries with tax competition as desired, but rather activities that are significant in Belgium. If other European states start taxing GAFA, why not Belgium? It has always been a leader in reform. At present, at European level, this is blocking because unanimity is required for tax matters. We ask that in Belgium we take a step towards more tax justice, to support our businesses and to finance the ecological transition in a fair manner. That is why I ask you this evening to reflect again on the vote that took place more than 15 days ago in committee. I am particularly speaking to two political groups: the CD&V which had co-signed the bill and the MR, who, I am sure, is committed to defending the business and SME sector. Several companies, via Comeos, supported this text with the legal provisions and amendments that you wanted, namely the fact that it is a provisional tax, which must be aligned with the thresholds of the other states, including France in particular. These are provisions that we have introduced by amendments. The third amendment introduced concerned the avoidance of double taxation by GAFAs – which seems unlikely in Belgium, since there is no provision for taxing GAFAs. In this way, they could deduct the tax. In the name of tax justice, fair competition and the energy transition and its financing, I ask you to subscribe to the GAFA taxation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u85	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u86	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stefaan Van Hecke, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Gilles Vanden Burre. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this bill be rejected. (465/4) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (465/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u87	Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her fine report, but I am disappointed at her voting behaviour. Ladies and gentlemen, it is said that politics sometimes requires a little patience. That is certainly true in this case too. Patience was not rewarded, but voted away. Actually, it's about a text that's been going along since I took my first oath in this Chamber 12 years ago. Twelve years ago, we submitted this text because it was approved in the Senate in 2007 just before the dissolution of the Chambers. As a result, the text could no longer be dealt with in the Chamber and was declared kaduuk. It's about a bill that regulates access for associations to the Council of State. This was once approved in the Senate, but never reached a majority in the Chamber. Since 2007, this text has been a pain in the ass. Since then, he has been filed and filed in every legislature. The Ministers responsible have promised to look at the proposal. Opinions and hearings were also requested. All the tricks from the delay box were pulled out in order not to have to proceed to a vote. I would like to draw attention to a very important opinion from the Council of State, given at a general meeting. The latter is quite exceptional. A very comprehensive positive opinion of more than 50 pages was issued. The opinion gave an overview of the state of play, including in the European context, on the issue of the access of associations to the Council of State and, in particular, environmental associations. We have even adapted our text to the suggestion of the Council of State. However, that too should not benefit. The last development in the file was that in December we in the Justice Committee drew up a similar arrangement to allow associations access to courts and courts. This text was drawn up by means of a draft law, i.e. through the cooperation of the majority, with criteria and conditions for associations to gain access to courts and courts. We have taken this text literally and submitted it to the Committee on the Interior in order to use the same criteria for access to the Council of State in order to have as coherent a system as possible with the same conditions, but that should not benefit either. The argument used, in particular that it is unnecessary, is incorrect. In practice, there is some flexibility in a number of chambers of the Council of State, but there are also very large differences between them. That is why legislative action is very important to ensure uniformity in the rules on access for associations to the Council of State. We are disappointed that the vote in committee did not make it, but there is always a second chance. Soon you will be able to vote and approve. One can always hope, who knows that one will ever change one's mind. We hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u88	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u89	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Emir Kir, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Nawal Ben Hamou, Eric Thiébaut. The Committee on Home Affairs, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that the bill be rejected. (3045/4) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (3045/4) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on the proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur is Ms Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u90	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u91	None of the proposers are present. No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u92	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Rita Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u94	Mr President, I would like to give an oral report. Mr Pivin tabled amendments introducing Articles 36/1 and 36/2 aimed at clarifying the situation of Belgians established in the United Kingdom, and gave his account. Mr Eric Thiébaut said that his group was in favour of it, but the reading of the amendment nevertheless raised the question of how the situation of British nationals on the lists of electors in Belgium would be resolved if Brexit was postponed. The Deputy Prime Minister replied that two situations had to be considered: if Brexit took place in April and May, it was clear that those British nationals would not be able to take part in the European election. However, if Brexit were to be postponed to a later date, they would of course be allowed to vote. Mr Thiébaut deduced from that reply that, in the second case, those nationals would be able to receive an election call but would not be able to take part in the vote. Will the municipalities be instructed to do so? The Minister said that, in this case, the Home SPF would of course take the necessary measures and the British nationals concerned would be informed by means of an official communication. After that, the votes will take place. Amendments Nos. 1 and 2 shall be adopted unanimously. The whole article is also adopted. So much for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u95	Thank you, Mr Van Peteghem, for the report. I give the floor to Mrs Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u96	Mr President, various initiatives have already been taken by the Michel I administration to deal with the Brexit issue. For example, Minister Van Overtveldt brought the big insurance broker Lloyd's to Brussels. After the fall of the government, everything fell a little bit and remained still. Other countries have better prepared themselves and used the opportunities of the Brexit. Look at Germany, where we have been able to capitalize the banking activities. The Netherlands has also prepared much better. The Netherlands can now conclude that it has already brought in a number of cases. In recent months, the Netherlands has helped 42 companies move to the Netherlands and is currently negotiating with 250 other companies. For the time being, this Netherlands is generating a new investment wave of 291 million euros and creates 1 923 jobs. Flanders is also trying to be attractive through Flanders Investment & Trade. That's a totally different attitude. Flanders sees the Brexit as a growth opportunity. With the Brexit we actually have the perfect incentive to make some urgent changes in our competitive position. At the Ease of Doing Business Ranking, all our neighbouring countries except Luxembourg are doing better than Belgium. Even Belarus must be put first. In short, there are opportunities and our group is pleased that the bill on insurance underwriters was added to this bill. Delegated Contributors shall be insurance persons acting on behalf of and for insurance companies. It is a niche market, but it is important for maritime insurance, among other things. The framework we have proposed increases legal certainty for brokers. In this way we can make a catch-up move towards the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom. Due to the imminent Brexit, many British offices will try to get a foothold on the continent. They often depart for the Netherlands or Luxembourg. However, our ports in Antwerp, Ghent and Zeebrugge are so ready that we can and should bring those activities to Flanders. This law makes it more attractive for these offices to settle in our country. We are therefore pleased that the bill is linked to the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u97	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our Assembly has already had several debates on the consequences of Brexit on topical issues. These consequences concern the European Union, but also our country, Belgium. I have already had the opportunity to ask our Prime Minister, Charles Michel, on several occasions what measures are being prepared to mitigate the negative effects on our economy if the United Kingdom of the European Union leaves without agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, this public meeting is being held in a moment that illustrates one of the main features of the debate on Brexit in the United Kingdom. Of course I want to talk about uncertainty. At a time when we are debating this bill, we cannot determine whether or not Brexit will take place before the European elections or what the nature of it will be. Last night, the House of Commons still did not reach an agreement. Eight votes on eight scenarios were all rejected. In addition, the announcement of Theresa May's resignation if the withdrawal agreement were to be adopted tomorrow further reinforces the confusion and uncertainty over the Channel. What will be the position of the Speaker of the House to organize this vote? Will we see a positive vote on the Barnier agreement and the resignation of the Prime Minister? Will there be an election or a simple change of prime minister? We're getting lost in conjecture. But let us not be mistaken: the confusion that prevails across the Channel is the daughter of unrealizable promises made by politicians who are now caught up in reality and who are confronted with the inevitable. The European elections must be an opportunity to return to a true and sincere speech; our fellow citizens have the right to do so. One thing is certain: a rejection of the withdrawal agreement is always possible, which would imply a "no deal", in other words an exit without agreement, a hard Brexit. Such an exit would probably be extremely costly for the United Kingdom but would also penalise the European Union and, of course, our country. It is with the aim of mitigating these adverse consequences that our government has introduced this bill. I remain convinced that Brexit is basically bad news. This is clearly a situation in which all parties are losing. Of course, the vote of the British people must be respected, because its decision is unequivocal and it is not up to us to challenge it. However, we can regret it. We will all come out of this weakened, both individually and collectively, both economically and geopolitically. It is no joy of heart that we see a great European State, an ally, leaving our common home. We continue to believe that a good agreement is possible with the United Kingdom, which would obviously be the well-understood interest of both sides. In other words, we hope for a positive vote tomorrow in Westminster. Indeed, the Barnier agreement is complemented by a political declaration which gives our future relations an unprecedented framework in the European Union's relations with a third country. This framework will include, inter alia, an economic partnership, a security partnership and a research partnership. Both the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration specify that a fisheries agreement will also have to be concluded by July 2020, in other words well before the end of the transition period. It will have to be based, inter alia, on reciprocal access to the waters of both parties and on the shares of existing fishing quotas. We will pay particular attention to the negotiation and satisfactory conclusion of this agreement. But we must also ensure that the commercial interests of our maritime infrastructure are defended. Furthermore, like the European Council, we will be vigilant to maintain a level playing field between the United Kingdom and the European Union, regardless of the form of the future relationship. This is particularly the case with regard to alignment with European environmental standards. This is essential, without which we would have no choice but to accept that our companies are subjected to unfair competition or to abandon our future environmental ambitions in Europe. So here's what would happen to Brexit if the agreement negotiated by Michel Barnier was ratified. As we said at the outset, this ratification depends on a British political situation which we must call unceremonious or even confusing. That is why our Government, like the European institutions and other Member States, including France, Germany and the Netherlands, has rightly and carefully concluded that we need to prepare ourselves for all scenarios, including an exit without agreement. That is exactly what the European Council asked the institutions and the Member States a year ago. A team within the Secretariat-General of the Commission shall be responsible for identifying measures that should be taken in areas falling within the Union's competence - in particular citizens' rights, financial services, transport, customs and health controls, personal data protection, fisheries or climate. At the national level, it is our collective responsibility, that of the government and that of Parliament, to prepare ourselves seriously for all the assumptions, including that of withdrawal without agreement. That is the purpose of this bill. It has some flexibility. In particular, we must be able to adjust our arrangements to take account of the measures that would be taken by the British Government but also by the European Commission with regard to Community powers (for example, air law governed by Community law or fisheries which represent an integrated EU policy, I have just mentioned) and by the other Member States, as far as they are concerned. This bill contains measures to address the concerns of many Belgians living in the United Kingdom. The government heard them. These measures must be allowed without delay in order to prevent our compatriots from being deprived of their rights tomorrow. We must not, conversely, forget the situation of the British living on our soil. We want to tell them that tomorrow they will always be welcome, as they are today. Their right of residence and that of their family members will be maintained. We unequivocally commit ourselves to making every effort to ensure that British nationals living in our territory are in a situation comparable to that which they would have benefited under the withdrawal agreement. We call on the British Government to make the same commitments to our citizens and to give them precise and detailed assurances as to the guarantees to be given to them in the absence of agreement. Two amendments have just been adopted unanimously in committee this afternoon. Brexit also has energy consequences in Belgium. Until agreement is reached, the United Kingdom is expected to leave the European natural gas market on 30 March. This endangers security of supply via the Interconnector linking the United Kingdom to Belgium. This vote will ensure security of supply. As far as the social aspect is concerned, and as long as the United Kingdom guarantees us reciprocity in relation to the social protection of our citizens, sickness and disability benefits, benefits in the event of accidents at work or occupational diseases, maternity and paternity benefits, pensions, survivors' or deaths' pensions and unemployment benefits should be provided until 31 December 2020 at the latest. This is an overview of the various measures included in this bill. You will have understood that it will have its full relevance in case of no deal, which remains the worst scenario. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this bill must enable the government to limit as much as possible the consequences of withdrawal from the United Kingdom without agreement. In the face of the uncertainty prevailing in the United Kingdom today, we must be prepared for every scenario, in order to guarantee our citizens, our country, stability in all areas. It is with this in mind that I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u98	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u99	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3554/15) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3554/15) The draft law has 46 articles. The bill has 46 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u100	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u101	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Meyrem Almaci, Jean-Marc Nollet, Karin Temmerman, Ahmed Laaouej, Olivier Maingain, Francis Delperée, Marco Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u102	D e text adopted by the committee shall form the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3642/3) L he text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3642/3) The discussion of the single article has been opened. The discussion of the single article is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u103	Mr President, the hemisphere is not full, even if everyone, whatever committee he or she sits on, wants to or does not, has followed the debate on this matter in recent weeks. The reason for this is quite simple: I am standing here as the author of an amendment, together with a number of colleagues, which is crucial in order to allow the introduction of a climate law. Actually, we are experiencing a unique moment. At this point in history, we are faced with fundamental choices about where we want to go with our society. Do we want a story that connects people and gives hope and perspective for the future? Or do we continue to muddle as we have done over the past 20 years and I refer to Einstein, who said: "The definition of madness is always trying out the same recipes and expecting another outcome"? You are all representatives of the people in Parliament, each individual, and serve the public interest. I'm party chairman, but not at a time like this. At a time like this, in a debate like today, each of us is first and foremost one to serve the public interest and to take up leadership at a crossroads in our history, a moment when the present political generation, according to the IPCC, is a major task for all of us. After all, we are the first generation to feel climate change and the last to be able to do something about it as competent policy makers. Colleagues, we will not be able to say in 30 years' time that we did not know. We know very well how serious the situation is. There are international reports; alarm bells after alarm bells are sounded and the climate itself makes itself feel stabbed in our weather peaks with one after the other. We also know that we are only at the beginning of climate change, because the effects we are now experiencing, such as the hurricane that hit Mozambique, are the result of emissions from decades ago. That's the thermal effect. We know that emissions have only increased since then, have reached a record level at the moment, and that the consequences will be evident for several decades to come. Today we are faced with the choice of whether we, as a small country, want to be great in order to stop the problem in time and whether we want to cooperate in keeping the warming far below two degrees, a promise to the generations to come, under which we signed in Paris. The reason why so many of you are asking for individual leadership today is because that is just at stake. What is before us today is not intellectually mine, even though my name is first under the proposal. Nor is it a proposal from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. It's not even Parliament's. The proposal is the result of a constructive response from the Council of State to a climate law which we all received as a gift from our society. Each of you, who will be taking part in election debates over the next few days and weeks, referring to the gap between citizens and politics, today has the unique opportunity to bridge that gap and, at a time when there is massive support, to show that you are also dareing to do what you are asked to do. People ask you, not out of self-interest but out of altruism and care for the whole of society for the young and future generations, to accept your responsibility. Close the gap with politics. It may sound strange that an amendment to amend the constitution has such an appeal. However, it does. Today is not about political games or parties. Today it is really about whether you understand the message and take it seriously. It is not about strategic games and who will be in which coalition after 26 May 2019. It's about your appointment with history. I'm not saying that. This is what the initiators say together with two hundred thousand signatories of Sign for my future from all over society. Why do they want a special climate law? Over the last few years, we have had ten competent climate and energy ministers in the current legislature and we are not achieving any objectives. We are one of the worst students in Europe. With the status that our country has, we align ourselves with coal-producing countries in Eastern Europe, we lack climate summits after climate summits, we get one after another questionable fossil price from the Paris Summit, we succeed in failing to send ministers to the talks with the Benelux countries, we in Katowice have a mud figure, after hundreds of thousands of people in our streets argued for more climate ambition and after seven years of negotiations through the deadline of the international summit, we could hardly propose a division of the burden sharing. That's where we stand today. As President of the Green Group, as a Member of Parliament, but above all as a citizen, I cannot say today that I am proud. I cannot say that Parliament has done enough. I am breaking my mind about the question of what more we could have done ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled initiative after initiative in Parliament. In 2007, at the time with Tinne Van der Straeten, we submitted a first proposal for climate law and various proposals of special law. We proposed and supported concrete measures after concrete measures when they came from other groups. We will continue to do the same. Today we are experiencing a unique moment. Today we can ensure that what we are saying, the words we are saying in debates about closing the gap with the citizen, and the ambition to mean something as a country, to assume our responsibilities and to show international solidarity. Then we will make it clear that we are taking seriously the effects of climate change that we are already seeing in our agriculture today. We want to be a good family father and a good housemother. That is the task that lies here today. Make no mistake, such an amendment may sound banal, but it is anything but. It is about a constitutional article that focuses on cooperation and care for other generations. The implementation of our climate policy today is flawed. It's not working. It is necessary to indicate a clear course where we want to go, proactively, not behind the facts, but with decisiveness, as we are expected to do. I have to say, then, that in the last few weeks in the debates in committee, everything has been done to avoid fog, to look for excuses and to explain why we should not do it in particular. I find that bizarre, because if the argument is the basis for support, then I would like to read to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Van Biesen, in the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, who really is the basis for that support. I won't read you 13 pages, I'll give you an indication. These are Marc Lambotte, Agoria; Stefan Van Doorslaer, Ahlers; Marc Leemans, ACV; Wim Voet, Aldi; Sven Lamote, Alpro; Steven De Haes and Wayne Visser, Antwerp Management School; Jacques Vandermeiren, the Antwerp port; Bart Demeestere, architectenbureau; Marc Lauwers, Argenta; Tomas Legrand, ArteveldeHogeschool; Jef Van In, Axa; Henk Janssen, Baloise; Luc Saey, Belga Plastics; Peter Wouters, movement.net; Maxime Jadot, CEO BNP Paribas; Toon Bossuyt, BOSS Paints; Stefan Bostoen, Bostoen; Ria Aeles, Bouworde; Koen Van Gerven, bpost; Frank Van Lierde, Cargill; Franky Depickere, Cera; Antoine Geerinckx, CO2Logic; Jean-Pierre Boydens, C. I'll read on. Jef Colruyt, you know, Xavier Piesvaux of Delhaize. Tough, isn't it, a list of CEOs sitting directly in your electoral audience? Pascal Van Damme van Dell, Piet Vandendriessche of Deloitte. Luc Vandenbulcke van DEME, Michel Moortgat van Duvel Moortgat, Grégoire Dallemagne van EDF, Chris Peeters van Elia, Robin Bruyninckx van Encon, Pierre Pignolet van Essent, Alexis Lebedoff van Facebook, Karel Van Eetvelt van Febelfin, Frank Vanbrabant van Fluvius, Thierry Geerts van Google, Catherine Bendayan van IKEA Belgium, Paul Eykens van Isoproc, Wim Jansen van JCDecaux,Thomas Leysen van KBC, Boudewijn van den Brand van Lidl, Joachim De Vos van Living Tomorrow, Gaëtan Hannecart van Matexi, Wilfried Vancraen van Materialise, Pierre Camé van Mars. And I'm not even on page 5. These are all CEOs with whom you like to take a picture, to tell you how important they are, until they ask you one by one to approve Article 7a. A full list, pages long. The call is supported by NGOs, by the ACV and movement.net, by trade unions and hundreds of thousands of people. They'll sign it after they sign it. The Climate Business, the Statue Money Alliance, Scientists4Climate... how much support are you looking for? A Burat study shows that most of the voters of the Open Vld, CD&V and the N-VA are in favour of a binding climate law. If you do not like the message, then you should look away and respond a little humiliatingly to each other, start with details, ensure that attention is distracted and try to make those movements unbelievable. Who will say tomorrow, as I have heard some on the committee say, that this is a group of left-wing activists? Who's gonna dare say that? Look at the list. You're wrong, not her! I have heard many excuses, for example, that this is a symbolic discussion. Well, I suggest you take a look at the symbolism of the climate law in the UK. Look at the symbolism of the California climate law that has long achieved the 2020 targets. Also look at the symbolism of the climate law in Denmark. Denmark: 35% of emissions; California: 25% of emissions; United Kingdom: 43% of emissions. And where are we? You can be honest, you can try to ridicule the basis, you can say that we will get there in another way, but your recipes from the past have given us too little too late. Several European and other countries have a climate law and it works. They are much better able to take concrete action. You'd rather put the cart in front of the horse, rather than let the horse leave first. And that is exactly what makes Article 7a possible, regardless of any Community discussion or state reform, which are ways of drowning the fish. Not approving Article 7a today means very clearly telling all those people that you have heard them, but that you really don't care. This is a moment for leadership and long-term thinking. Either you pick up the glove or you don't. But stop telling people that you mean business when you don't. This is a door you can open, but you refuse to do so. It's not harder. In recent years, a number of doors have been opened, but you have not. Now you want to try again. In five years, you will miraculously make what has not worked in the past 20 years possible. You have no problem opening a new door, but you refuse to do so; you say that we should forget it. That's how ambitious our little Belgium is. However, the acceptance is there, the ambition in the street is there, but she is missing from you. You know, if it was about efficiency, Article 7a is your best ally. If you believe that you want to be ambitious, then you should not be afraid of a constitutional article that imposes that ambition on you. Then you say, "On it and on it." But you wouldn't even dare. This is not efficient, it is not ambitious, it is spitting in the face of those who form the existing basis of support. That's what I see. Scientists4Climate and the IPCC are apparently not enough. Then let me give an example of the costs, because I know that many people like to debate them. Let me give an example of the current costs of air quality in our country. Eight thousand people who die prematurely, according to the European Commission's calculations, cost EUR 8 billion. The concrete stop has been postponed by the so-called ambitious Flemish government, and not implementing it by 2030 costs 7.5 billion euros, only for our region, Flanders. Doing nothing will cost EUR 7.5 billion by 2030 as far as the concrete stop is concerned. For one region in Belgium! The debate on litter and deposit money has also been postponed by Flanders. In Flanders alone, the bare cost of cleaning up litter, calculated by OVAM, is 164 million euros per year. According to a research by Recover, a partnership of 11 waste intercommunales and the city of Antwerp, managed by a mayor who is not here today, it costs up to 1 billion euros a year because Flanders has not decided to introduce the deposit. Delayed! Social costs: 1 billion euros, according to the study commissioned by Recover! Do you know what last year's drought cost agriculture alone? By the way, we are again building water shortages as we speak; follow the weather forecast. Well, last year's drought cost EUR 270 million in damage to agriculture. The Farmers' Union, ladies and gentlemen from CD&V, estimated the damage at EUR 456 million. In 2017, spring drying cost 98.7 million euros. Before that, it was less. You can see the trend. The number's exploding. This year's costs, for agriculture alone, will not be reduced. The winter storm at the beginning of March cost 200 million euros according to insurers' calculations. Dear friends, you know well enough that the cost of doing nothing is many times higher than the price of shooting into action now. And yet, for the sake of good governance, you think it is advisable to take the time and not approve anything, because what will be the cost of it? Doing nothing costs you 5 % to 20 % of GDP. How much is that? More than 80 billion euros! That's the choice you've made with every dawdling of the past few years. You choose to postpone over and over again and to saddle future generations not only with ecological damage, but also with a billion invoice alongside that well in the budget of EUR 8 billion. That's what you choose! There are only a few topics that the newspapers today control: the damage caused by storms, the damage caused by drought, the damage caused by air pollution. These are only calculated in economic terms and not even in terms of impact on people and what it means for our daily lives. That is the choice you make by postponing measure after measure. We know very well what the economic cost of doing nothing is. We know very well that the efforts requested amount to 1% of GDP. If I have to choose from a concern for good governance, in addition to the reason for efficiency and taking into account the support base, I know. That is your duty as a Member of Parliament to our people. You have the support. You have a reason for efficiency. You have the Council of State which has done the work for you and has been constructive. You have the FRDO calling you to do it. You have your own agencies calling for more action. You have your own studies that show what the benefits are. You have institution after institution, research after research, academic after academic who say "become more ambitious." You've read one piece of opinion after another. Today a brilliant piece of opinion has been published by David Van Reybrouck: Follow your conscience, not your party line! Once again, there will be an honest reaction. That is the way to deal with an unconvenient truth among some in this House. I'd rather be small and honing than rise above itself. The invoice is what she is. She's not leaving. If you, as an elected politician, do what you hear, you will approve this proposal today. You can come up with counter-proposals. I would have welcomed them in the last few years. Maar dat is too little too late. It's all been here. I have had debates with you in the hours of the night about planned aging so as not to make any progress on this after ten years of palaver. I have debated with you in the hours of the night the cost of the banking crisis and I have supported you to intervene directly. I asked you in the hours of the night to identify those responsible for the banking crisis. We were never allowed to open that cover-up because you also followed the party line instead of your conscience. In thirty years' time, I do not want my children and grandchildren to have to watch a broadcast of Villa Politica or a live broadcast from the hemisphere to see who is responsible for the further failure of our climate policy. The cost, in addition to social and financial costs, will also consist of European fines. Those fines will come from 2020, and you know it well enough. Our next budget will have to provide money for it, because you do not meet your objectives, despite all your ministers. What's in store now isn't much of a question, but you're still throwing that door. A first hurdle was taken at the committee meeting earlier this week. In advance that was called a pyrrus victory because even journalists are so common to cynicism of that way of working. Some raise it to an art. You may be proud of that, but at a time like today in the hemisphere, I know that you are missing your moment in history. You can pay as much as you want, the people outside Parliament realise that well enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u104	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u105	Mr Verherstraeten, an amendment to Article 7a of the Constitution is indeed not a sacred grail. However, in our view, it is an essential step towards a coherent policy. The least you can do is declare that article subject to revision. All other recipes have not worked, do not guarantee a quick start, do not give any confidence that you would now do what you have left behind in recent years. The way we proceed in the coming years should not depend on who is in charge of the regime. You have no arguments, just excuses. You will be able to repeat it in a moment, but the reality is that these misdeeds have long been pierced outside Parliament. People see how parties turn out against each other's veto rights. That is what is still possible through your cooperation agreements because you want to keep that one door mordicus closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here today as party chairman and not as a member of the Green Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u106	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u107	Mr Van Rompuy, I'm not at the end of my career. I have great respect for you. During many times, for example during the banking crisis, but also now, Parliament can build a bridge with what lives outside, with legitimate concerns and indignation. You can see that this is a step that meets a question. The MR has had that generosity and I dare salute it. A lot of people, including your own, are asking the same of you today. You're not here to talk for me today, you're here to talk for them today. The question is whether you want them to believe that you will bridge that gap with them or whether they will see that you want to make them even deeper. A special law serves to divide powers, not to set specific climate objectives. That is what we have done with our plan. We hope that the rest will come with it, but it is now clear that in that first step ahead today for each of you is a special task. You can try to laugh it away, you can try to call it symbolic, you can try to wipe it off the table and humiliate who asks for it, but you can also choose to be on the right side of history and ambitious, to choose the future. We put out our hand. Not only Ecolo and Green, but still several groups have put their hands out. The question is whether you are ever prepared to take that hand, which is actually coming from the street, or whether you will continue to laugh away.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have before us today, that supplement to Article 7a, is simply because we want to take this particular climate law as a trophy to the elections at all costs. That is what this whole debate is about. The question for revision of Article 7a has not been raised before, which has only come after the opinion of the Council of State. No one was asking for that change. There is now only one question because we want this particular climate law. What does this particular climate law change? Will it ensure that tomorrow, when everything gets better, more action can be taken than is being taken today? Are there any things that are impossible today, which will be possible after the adoption of that particular climate law? No, absolutely not, in any way. We have seen this very clearly in the various hearings that have been held. Several lawyers and professors have expressed their views on this issue. According to them, this has been put on the table for one purpose: to ensure that it is not the politicians who decide on the climate, but to ensure that something is put on the table that makes it more likely in courts that judges can decide on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u109	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u110	I have heard you say better things, Mr Calvo. If the arguments are exhausted, such matters will be on the table. In a moment you will say something about the right side of history. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been made very clear that this is a matter for the courts. A lawyer in our hearing asked very clearly: is that how you want to deal with this file? Then it would not be the politicians who decide, but sometime in the year 2027 a court will then rule. That's not the way we do politics here, is it? We have been asking for a debate on measures for a long time, over and over again. We discussed an interparliamentary resolution with all the parliaments and voted on it because it contained measures. That is quite different from simply talking about an objective that your group has set at 55% by 2030. A number of principles were put forward, the definition of which is not even clear, very clearly with the intention of bringing this to the courts and letting them decide what we do not want to include here. I have heard a number of arguments, for example that this climate law will ensure better air quality. Colleagues, climate policy and environmental policy are not always the same. I don't know which of you took the trouble to read the Walloon energy climate plan. How much of that energy is generated from biomass? Up to 75% is generated by biomass which does not improve air quality. With us, the VITO warns again and again that if it goes in that direction, our air quality is also going in the wrong direction. We don't need stories like that around here. I have heard here say that if we adopt this climate law, the sea level will not rise, that we will not experience drought, that there will be no more effects of climate change. Colleagues, do you really believe that? We know that this country's emissions are about 0.3 percent of global emissions. We know that if we act alone, that will have no effect. That's not gonna work until everyone's in on it. Colleagues, we also know that the European Union is currently on the right track, on the route to emit minus 45% CO2 by 2030. That is the line we must follow and on which we must move forward. Of course, that also requires other countries to do the same. We know what was promised in Paris. A number of countries have made promises there. And I'll mention a few. China has promised to increase its emissions to 2030. India has promised that its emissions will amount to a maximum of 480 % of the current emissions by 2030. If we have to deal with this kind of commitment, we are not going to get there effectively, ladies and gentlemen. The measures proposed here to reverse the whole debate on how to decide on climate policy will not produce results. Today, the debate starts with politics, with the regions, which determine how they want to work together. In the past, we have seen what that led to. There were regions that wrote in the coalition agreement that they would emit 30% less CO2. At the time, there was a relatively smart deputy secretary at CD&V, who said to take that as a key, to put the commitments in the government agreements on the table, so that we could do the Burden Sharing, to divide that. That makes sense. Promising and doing what has been promised effectively might actually be a step forward. Colleagues, that was refused and at that time the file was stalled. I was sitting at the table with Mr Nollet's staff, and that is where the file was blocked because they did not wish to do so. In this respect, I do not think it is a good thing to say today that we are going to organise a whole round with the administration and that it is only at the end of the journey that the Inter-Ministerial Conference should discuss this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we have paid learning money to ensure that we have reached an agreement. That applies to a lot of files in this country. None of them has been resolved by linking an independent expert committee to an administration, in which we have brought together the people of four entities working on climate change in one building. Colleagues, we have paid learning fees, but we have also learned something from them. In other words, it will be much easier to conclude such agreements in the future. Let's be honest, too. We will still have to conclude these agreements. If we do not conclude these agreements, we will still not achieve the stated objective. Whether that is 35%, as Europe currently allocates us or whether that is 55%, as is said here on the other side, an agreement is needed. Otherwise, we won't get there. I am very concerned when I hear professors suggesting that they want to wipe out all cooperation agreements and that they want to abolish and eliminate the framework cooperation agreement on the basis of which we in this country cooperate in the climate issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in chaos in this way, which is absolutely not a step forward. I understand, of course, that we want this abolition to be an important symbol and that we believe that there should be a document somewhere that says 'climate law' and preferably'special climate law'. You will remember that the professors have chosen that methodology, because that sounds more sophisticated than a normal climate law. How many tons of CO2 saves taking that symbol? Colleagues, that does not save a single tonne of CO2. This does not provide for the necessary measures. That certainly does not mean that we are achieving results. It is a fact that we must get to work and that measures must be taken. The Flemish Energy Climate Plan is a good step forward. We can talk about measures that put us on the right track. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea here is that the document, which I will not call a piece of paper, will make us wake up tomorrow in a beautiful world where there is no CO2 emissions, is a story that is not true. CO2 is saved by taking measures and by convincing others to take those measures. Feel free to focus on innovation. Let us rest assured of what we can do in an international context. Let us focus on the technology that we already have today and which we can offer the rest of the world. Please don't let us fool people. After all, we do not buy anything with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 20 years ago, in all climate conferences, the speakers were in the gallery asking for action for future generations. Those same speakers would add that our children would judge us severely if we did not change the road. Conference after conference, it became a bit hollow, quickly spoken and quickly forgotten. The years have passed and today, ladies and gentlemen, future generations are on the street. They scroll every Thursday asking us for accounts. Week after week, thousands of citizens, young people and young people alike, offer us a mirror to denounce the inability of our political, administrative and economic system to respond to the challenge of climate change. Regardless of the complexity of Belgian federalism. It doesn't matter what happens in the day-to-day business. It doesn't matter what the political divisions are, what the community divides. The protesters are asking us to overcome our constraints. They're asking us for action and results. They ask us to be part of the solution, not the problem. As parliamentarians elected by the citizens, we have a duty to hear these demands and to provide concrete answers. To propose effective solutions, our first duty is to make a good diagnosis. This one has been known for years. It is simple, it holds in three words: our planet is burning. The youth alarm cry is in line with what has been read in successive IPCC reports over the past three decades. The latest IPCC report, presented on 8 October, is once again unequivocal. All the lights are red. Without inflection of the greenhouse gas emission curve, the increase in global temperature could reach 5.5 degrees by the end of this century. It is not tomorrow that the negative consequences will be felt. It is a daily reality all over the world - and especially in the southern part of the planet. Faced with the consequences of global warming before our eyes, we must make unprecedented efforts to meet the 1.5-degree target set by the Paris Agreements. The challenge is enormous, colleagues. Let us be lucid, Belgium is not currently in order to deal with it. Our country is not up to the climate emergency. I said it in committee. To convince yourself, just look at the curve of our greenhouse gas emissions, minister. While our emissions were expected to decline, they have been rising since 2015. In view of the latest figures, our country will not achieve the objectives set by the European Union. By 2020, we must have reduced our greenhouse gas emissions by 15%. Today, we're barely 12%. If we stay on course, we will have barely reduced our emissions by 14% by 2030, while we need to achieve a 35% reduction. This objective is being increased, but I am not even talking about it, Mr Nollet. On the other hand, it is projected that in 2030 we would be the 24th worst student in the European Union. By 2030, the European Union will only have 27 or more member states, but what is certain is that tomorrow we will be 27. This finding of failure applies to greenhouse gas emissions, but unfortunately it also applies to renewable energies. While we will have to reach 13% renewable energy in 2020, we were barely 9% in 2019. Colleagues, we need to make a collective record of failure. Together, we are responsible for this failure in the fight against global warming. That doesn't mean we didn't do anything. This does not mean that there have been no good initiatives, especially at the local level. But when we look at national statistics coldly, we can only see that Belgium is not complying with its international commitments, neither with regard to the European Union nor with regard to the Paris Agreements. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the climate emergency, we need to change our software. That is why the climate law proposed by the academics is salutary. It provides us with a framework that allows us to overcome the obstacles we have experienced in the past. The climate law also places great emphasis on the participation of civil society, independent experts and parliaments in order to initiate a powerful collective dynamic. Beyond the issues of climate governance, my group also supports the special law, as it enshrines an increase in the targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and an increase in the targets for renewable energy and energy savings. Indeed, we cannot deprive ourselves of an upward revision of the European objectives and finally be consistent with the Paris Agreements. With the proposal for a special law, we want to go further than the resolutions we have voted in this Parliament; resolutions, I would remind you, which are non-binding and can always – as they have been in the past – be ignored by the various governments. Of course, and I think we all agree on this, the special law is not a miracle remedy. It sets a clear horizon and sets a framework for cooperation between the federal and the federated entities, but it does not yet say anything about the measures to be taken to achieve the ambitious objectives, nor does it indicate who will finance them. Everyone has their own little ideas; we have our own. We believe, for example, that large polluters must be the biggest contributors and that there must be joint responsibility. However, ladies and gentlemen, we will not be able to agree on the details of the measures to be taken and on the methods of financing. We propose – and others also – to chart the path and ambitions of tomorrow. It will then be up to the next government to identify concrete measures and financial means. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want the special law to be passed under this Parliament, we must vote for the revision of the Constitution that we are proposing to you today. Voting for this very brief but important amendment is essential if Belgium is to be placed on the track of the Paris Agreements. I am all the more convinced – and I am looking at the CD&V Group – when I see Plan B of the opponents of the climate law, which took the form of an amendment tabled. They tell us from the beginning that the special law is ineffective and that cooperation agreements must be given priority. Now we see what the real motivation of their plan B is. It is first of all to prevent ambitious climate goals. Plan B also shows that it is not a cooperation agreement, nor two, nor three, but four cooperation agreements which they propose instead of the special climate law. Four cooperation agreements! Looking back, the last climate cooperation agreement has been negotiated for ten years. Ten years to conclude a cooperation agreement, that is what we are being offered for Plan B! So we're going straight to paralysis. Finally, in Plan B, we see that they refuse to give a real role to civil society and scientists by evacuating all the advances proposed in the climate law and, full of cynicism, by finally abolishing – we would never have believed – the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. This plan B is absolutely not an alternative. It is a garage road that will keep our country in climate immobilization. Plan B is four times more complicated, four times slower, four times less ambitious. This plan B, ladies and gentlemen – and perhaps the most important one – is a totally disastrous message that we are sending to the young people who are mobilizing for the climate. Do we want to make it an army of cynics who think that democracy can do nothing? On the contrary, do we want to tell them that, yes, when we collectively mobilize for a just cause, we can move things and achieve results for the benefit of the whole population and the whole planet? Ladies and gentlemen, do not break the momentum of youth because without this energy, without this collective consciousness, without this capacity for citizen mobilization, we will never be able to cope with global warming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group has signed and supports the proposal for a special climate law, just as we supported and voted on the resolution of 20 December in favour of a more ambitious climate policy. In its opinion, however, the Council of State called into question the whole section on the principles and objectives on which the proposal for a special climate law drawn up by academics is based. The opinion of the Council of State particularly points to the definition of climate objectives by a special law. He said that other ways should be taken to establish the general principles and objectives of climate policy that must be respected by all authorities. In order to solve this problem, the Council of State presents six avenues for reflection. There are two avenues for amending Article 7bis of the Constitution. But there are also four other avenues for amending the special law of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms, which, in particular, allocates powers among entities and sets out the areas in which they can conclude cooperation agreements. Some refuse to see the obvious, but the conclusion of cooperation agreements is a political tradition in our country. Contrary to the idea conveyed by some colleagues – I heard Mrs Lalieux once again – the cooperation agreements are working. For example, Mr François Bellot and the federal government have concluded, in less than a year, an agreement to finance the RSP for more than EUR 1 billion. It's a matter of will. In terms of climate, burden sharing was also concluded by Marie-Christine Marghem and the federal government. The National Climate Plan was also concluded between the federated entities and the federal government. So do not come to say that the cooperation agreements do not work or take ten years. Every time I hear that sentence, one more year ago. I guess tomorrow will be eleven years. That's not true! The cooperation agreements are working. The objectives to be achieved are set. We voted on them here in December, ladies and gentlemen. We know them: 55% in 2030, 95% in 2050. They were voted on. They're known. The priority now is to agree on concrete measures to be taken to achieve them. Finally, the debate on concrete measures has not taken place for weeks. We are talking about global objectives, but not concrete measures. We are two months away from the elections and it is on these measures that the debate should focus. This is what citizens should be informed about. On the other hand, we are trying to discuss the objectives on which we have already voted. At the MR anyway, we took on our responsibilities. We have tabled a note containing 40 climate-related measures in all areas, including energy, mobility, agriculture and education. All the measures advocated by the MR are in the direction of growth and technological progress. They oppose the proponents of a punitive ecology that would undermine purchasing power and risk seeing our companies relocate. Our project is eco-positive. It aims to change the behaviour of pollutants. He wants to incentivize rather than ban. He wants to exonerate rather than tax. For example, the fight against warming must, in particular, be carried out at European level. A Green New Deal is proposed; a shelter climate tax will have to be put in place for companies investing in environmental activities. We support innovation and technological research, in particular through the creation of a green gas production unit and the development of green energy transformation via hydrogen, all of which are moving forward and which will certainly be supported in the years to come. For buildings, we obviously want to isolate public buildings over ten years, to strengthen energy performance standards. As you can see, these are concrete objectives and measures. That is what we should be talking about today and not about the objectives that have already been voted on. In conclusion, our group wants to be constructive and not blocking. That is why we will not oppose the amendment of Article 7a. However, in view of the positions of others, who have been well known since the vote in committee, we remain confident that we will be discussing in the near future the four other solutions preferred by the Council of State to establish cooperation agreements. Indeed, we fear that there will not be a two-thirds majority today to vote for the amendment of the Constitution. Therefore, I will give you an appointment next week for the rest of the events.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2006, former Vice-President Al Gore made the impressive film "An Inconvenient Truth," in which he warned about the disastrous consequences of global warming. He was rightly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. However, in 2019 he is unfortunately not in the White House, but someone else, a president who has campaigned to undo all of his predecessor's climate measures. As in the United States, the climate debate polarises in our country as well. That happens with a lot of political issues these days. Some people want to work very urgently on a better climate, but without compromise in the way in which that objective is to be achieved. Others then deny and say that nothing is going on at all. Between these extremes, there are a lot of people with questions. The vast majority of people think the climate is important. The vast majority of people think that we should offer our children and grandchildren a world in which they can live well and healthy and handle nature carefully. However, if we have the debate on how we should do it, it will be more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, climate protesters have made a very important contribution to putting climate issues at the top of the agenda. We consider that to be very commendable. It is good that young people commit themselves and do not stand on the sidelines. It is good that young people take social responsibility and challenge politicians. Many people ask together with the young people that the politicians take action. However, climate is not only a political issue, but also an individual responsibility by each of us: the citizens, the families, the businesses. Everyone's gonna have to do their part. But when it comes to collective responsibility, of course, we look first and foremost at politics. We want to accept that responsibility. We want ambitious targets to be set. We want concrete measures to be taken to implement the objectives. Several governments do the same, but perhaps too little for some. For some the glass is half empty, for others it is half full. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the debate over the last few weeks shows that we will have to go further and faster and do much more. That is the merit of the debate in recent weeks. Colleagues, everyone wants a better climate. I note, however, that when the objectives are translated into action, opinions are very different. Not only between the political parties, not only between our groups, but also in society. We have to take that into account. Democracy is an organised disagreement, but that presupposes dialogue. Dialogue with climate protesters, dialogue with various advisory bodies on the environment and climate, dialogue with responsible actors, dialogue with all civil society. That's what we do. That is what we do in terms of climate. We, the Flemish Christian Democrats, have been doing this for years with the numerous civil society organisations, on all the themes, including the climate. The dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, is the only way to achieve results in a polarised environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u114	Mr Verherstraeten, I do not need to stress that our group does not like polarisation. We find each other on a regular basis. We have joined forces in other debates against those who encourage and feed it. You have already mentioned the debate polarised a number of times, I think, wrongly. It is clear that people are concerned about climate policy. After the government's policy in recent years, where the invoice has often been placed with people, I recognise and understand why they are also concerned about the climate today. However, you cannot claim that the debate on the climate law is characterised by massive polarisation. You cannot claim that in this debate outside Parliament people are incredibly opposed to each other. On the contrary, if we look at the proponents of the climate law, Mr Almaci has just rightly pointed it out, we see that they are bridge builders and that the bridges are already built, because both trade unions and managers are in favour of the climate law. So there is no polarisation at all. You are right to talk about young people, but there are also the grandparents for the climate. You're talking about polarization. No, what we as greens see is not polarisation around the climate law, but a huge support base. Instead of getting that support, you are talking today about polarization, popping up the political polarization and saying that CD&V is not going to work with that support. I do not understand that, because the platform is huge and transcends the classical contradictions. Trade union movements and companies, young and old, have already taken care of this together. They have taken a step forward, and it is up to Parliament to make that move today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u115	Mr Calvo, when I say that there is a polarised debate, not just about climate, I am obviously not talking about the young people, whom I have just given birth to. If I have spoken of a polarized debate, I am not talking about the managers, who have not, moreover, called for a change to Article 7a. Mrs Almaci, they have advocated a climate law, an independent climate council and an investment programme. They did not talk about Article 7a. Well, that is exactly what our plan B is proposing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u116	I was just talking about the gap between politics and citizens. I'd be more than happy to read it to you. 25 March 2019: "Sign for my Future calls on politicians to vote for constitutional change." Mr Verherstraeten, I read one paragraph: "This week, a unique moment in Belgian history is emerging, with the Belgian representatives deciding whether Article 7a of the Constitution is to be amended. The point of discussion is to add one sentence to the Constitution. This is necessary to enable an effective climate policy based on a special climate law with climate objectives." It's 13 pages of signatories. Civil society, CEOs, your trade union movement, are calling for this to be done. CEOs like Mr. Leysen, whose brother stands up for Open Vld, and companies like Umicore ask you last week to approve the amendment of Article 7a. So stop the fog dusting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u117	Mrs. Almaci, the truth has her rights. The truth is that these people have endorsed the following. I will read it out: "I want the next governments together to do what is necessary to keep global warming well below 2°C and continue to strive for a maximum of 1.5°C. Belgium should become climate neutral by 2050 and significantly reduce emissions over the next five years. I want a climate law, an investment programme to help citizens and businesses in the transition, and an independent climate council, which follows the policy. I realize that this will require efforts from each of us, but at the same time believe that it offers opportunities and that it is necessary to build our future." That's what Sign for my Future says. After that, a number of people in the name of the organisation, after all the companies had signed, said that this meant a constitutional revision. That's not right at all. If you look closely at all those who have signed, you will also find people of ours. (Conversation on the banks)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u118	Do you know what's unfortunate? This is exactly why I was speaking from the bottom of my heart just now about humbling and deceiving the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u119	You do that!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u120	Even letting someone speak is hard because the truth hurts. You just read Sign for my Future's message, but listen, visit that website, talk to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u121	They want a climate law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u122	Listen, Mr Van Biesen, do not do what you did on the committee. The debate is followed by many people, including your supporters. Sign for my Future has a pledge. You just read it, but the people I just read the names of are all ambassadors of Sign for my Future. If those ambassadors do not agree with that statement, then steps are out. They put themselves behind it. Stop distorting the truth because she doesn't like you. Don't hurt those people. This is their communication and all ambassadors support it, otherwise it wouldn't have come. Stop taking the people for fools and find the connection you're being reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u123	Mr Verherstraeten has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u124	Mr President, if Mr Calvo had just said that I would have said that the managers are polarizing, then I would like to say the opposite. Mr Van Biesen has quoted what they have signed. In that statement they ask for the help of governments and they commit themselves to making efforts. Companies have an important share of emissions, but they also employ people. That is why I think it is very commendable that they take a public stand and are prepared to make efforts. They're not the ones polarizing. But when I heard the decibels just now, when I heard the culpabilisation of colleagues who may prefer methods other than those proposed by the proposers, that is polarization. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u125	You know, Mr Almaci, we have amended this legislature twice, twice in the field of justice. How did that work? Texts were prepared for the Cabinet of Justice. We've contacted you, first with the majority, then with all of you. Then we have consulted with majority and opposition in many meetings. Only then have we changed the articles of the Constitution. For example, one amends a Constitution, not just a joke, and then, if one does not agree, blames one for being on the wrong side of history. That's unfair!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u126	Mr Verherstraeten, I understand that you are trying to speak straight which is crooked. You are well aware that what is ahead of the climate law was produced in December by a group of independent scientists. You know very well when this Parliament is going into recess. You know very well what timetable we are working within. You are well aware that the way in which our group works, think of the debate on company law, which has twice received a devastating opinion from the Council of State, is the search for solutions, even with the knife on the throat for timing. We did that for company law. We have done so for your minister, who threatened to miss the reform completely under the pressure of the recess. We have worked very constructively together, although the Council of State has given two disastrous opinions. We did that. If we had not done so, this would not have been approved in this legislature. Mr Verherstraeten, I have known you for a very long time. We have also had this kind of debate in response to the banking crisis. I know that you need such phrases to try to get out of a debate in which you have no arguments. (Protests) Colleagues, such reactions are partly the reason why people turn away from politics. Mr Verherstraeten, in very sensitive cases, our group has always sought connection. Last December, academics gave us a text, but we only had a few months to get that text approved. Mr Nollet, together with you and other colleagues in the committee, has agreed on a timing which we have all committed ourselves to making possible before the end of this legislature. You can't make up your mind about the claim that someone was working on a trot. There has been a serious debate in several committee meetings. Several experts were invited. People like Jos Delbeke have cleared themselves to speak in our agreed timing. Mr Verherstraeten, you are not insulting us, but you are insulting all those speakers and all the scientists who have done their best to get another text approved in this Parliament. You are making a mistake, very sorry for a party that says it wants to work in a binding and serious way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u127	Mr Almaci, I simply note that this will never succeed in making changes to the Constitution. That's your responsibility. Anyone who claims that the gap between politics and citizens can be eliminated with a single sentence in the Constitution is mistaken. The gap between citizens and politics is eliminated through dialogue, by talking to and listening to individual citizens, organisations, associations and civil society. I found certain polls enlightening. 70% of Flemings are concerned about global warming, but only 34% want to pay extra taxes. Only a minority is willing to take the plane less. A majority wants to go on city trip by train, but doesn't want to pay extra for it. Few people want to buy electric or hybrid cars. I would just like to say that we must find and build people's support. We must find an answer to their concerns and questions. Climate action must be fair, reasonable, social and balanced. They must be feasible and affordable. Consider the current Article 7a of the Constitution. This is about sustainable development and defines it as part of it: social aspects, economic aspects, environmental aspects, solidarity between generations. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are components which, as far as we are concerned, must go together in order to achieve a better climate. It has already been said in this plenary by Mr Wollants. The proposal on Article 7a of the Constitution is a very recent proposal. I hear the authors say that the amendment is extremely urgent. But I note that those who feel that this is so urgent have not made any proposals in recent years. I just heard you say nothing happened for 20 years. Then why has there been so long waiting to submit that proposal? Article 7a was declared subject to revision in the 2010 Constitutional Review. There was not a single proposal from any political group throughout this legislature. That Article was declared subject to review in 2014. No proposal until three months ago. Colleagues, that says a lot. They only woke up after the successful climate demonstrations. We have only been woken up after the Council of State's opinion on the proposal of special law, not before.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u128	Mr Verherstraeten, two things. My group has already tabled a proposal for a climate law in 2007, in line with the United Kingdom, when you were a Member of Parliament and I have not yet done so. In that sense, therefore, we do not need to receive any lessons. Nor can we accept the fact that we Greens were ten years ahead of us in this area. What happens in the meantime? And that's what the politicians have to do. Something's happening in society. I do not think what you have just said is a reproach to our group at all. It's a compliment! We'll take that. Yes, we took an initiative after the climate events. Yeah, we started working on that proposal from the academics. Yes, we have read the opinion of the Council of State. If you ask why we have waited so long, first of all, that is not true. Secondly, it's our damn job. You have been standing there all along saying that we need to listen to civil society, that we need to get on with the support base. Well, what our group has done is to work with that support. This is not just the case with our group. We have no lessons to learn about this. Under the Verherstraeten proposal, your amendment, there is exactly one name: tabled by the CD&V Group. What we submitted was also submitted by the PS, the French-speaking socialists, the sp.a, the Dutch-speaking socialists and the Greens on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking side. It is further supported by the French-speaking liberals. So, Mr Verherstraeten, we have no lessons to learn from you in terms of building support. You're outnumbered and you forget to listen to what's going on out here. We've been working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u129	Mr Calvo, I would like to touch briefly on the technical aspect of the amendment, but I do not think that is relevant here. I have submitted the texts with the intention of getting them translated. I asked the services of the Chamber to return it as a test and not to have it submitted as a final amendment. I had the intention of going around with that in order to ask for support for it. The services made a mistake and submitted it immediately. That is the reality. I had asked for it to be withdrawn for the time being because I wanted to go around asking for support. I was prepared to change things to the left or right if necessary. I don't blame the services, they were and are in good faith. I am still prepared to rewrite it, in consultation with anyone, in order to obtain the necessary majority. I'm just finding that what's now super-urgent hasn't been urgent for years. That's a collective responsibility. I come to the advice of the Council of State. We, too, have read that. I'm not going into the five slopes, I'm going into the two that were stopped. The second track was to determine in the Constitution that the federal government can impose binding climate targets in a special law. That is the slope used by the proposers to amend Article 7a. The third track has the climate objectives laid down by a special law in mandatory cooperation agreements. That's our piste. Has the Council of State preferred these five slopes, of which I have now listed the second and the third, and said that one is better than the other? No. He said that there were fundamental problems with this proposal of special law and suggested possible solutions. They're all equally advanced. We choose the third, the proposers choose the second. Colleagues, I respect everyone's choice, but I cannot accept that anyone who chooses a different track than the second one considers themselves to be friendly with the climate and that all the others who want to choose a different slope are the bad guys. That's intellectually unfair.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u130	Mr Verherstraeten, I will enter into your reasoning for a moment. You say that the Council of State sets out several lines of action without specifying which one is the best. That's right, he's not writing it. You say that you prefer the path of the cooperation agreement. Let us forget the question of leads and pipes to focus on content: why do you withdraw the quantified objectives from your cooperation agreement? That's the foundation. That is why we want a special law. That is also what the demonstrators are asking for in order to make progress. It's not institutional piping. At the limit, let us opt for the cooperation agreement. But explain to us why there is no longer a single number or a single objective and that all this is returned to limbos, we don't even know where! We are not even asking for the cooperation agreement to define quantified objectives! That's my criticism. You abandon the essentials, you make the cooperation agreement completely hollow, completely empty. It's wind!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u131	Mr Nollet, as a young lawyer, I have learned that regulation includes not only the legislative text, but also the preparatory work and hence the explanatory statement. In this case, we are talking about a legislative proposal and an amendment. The explanatory statement is very broad. The explanatory memorandum sets out the objectives. The explanatory statement also contains all the international obligations to which we have committed ourselves. The explanatory statement states very formally everything that has been agreed in the Senate and what you have also approved. The explanatory statement also contains the resolution that we have adopted here. However, it remains my absolute conviction that the competent authorities must do this together and, first and foremost, those which are most competent to implement the objectives. In my opinion, our method - a compulsory cooperation agreement, not without obligation - is faster, more efficient and more reasonable than your piste. If you follow your path, the Constitution must first be amended and then the special law. The climate policy plan must then be renegotiated, new institutions set up and a climate pact established before it can be implemented. Our piste indeed requires a limited change to the climate law but then comes the climate pact, followed by its implementation. We involve all governments. You are now imposing something on other authorities that are more competent than we are. We want solutions from the bottom up. We want to do this in consultation. The difference between a cooperation agreement and the text of your proposal for a special law is that a cooperation agreement is much more detailed and goes much deeper. That's the way it's supposed to be!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u132	Mr Verherstraeten, do you really mean it when you say that the cooperation agreements work? Let us just look at what has happened over the last two years. It is then seen that this is totally inefficient. Remember what happened in Paris. Belgium was the only country in the world that sent four ministers, but they didn't even have an agreement to tell something decent there. Then we made some progress, because we sent only one minister to Katowice, in Poland, with a private jet. But she didn't know what to tell her there; she had to go back there and pull everyone back. We didn't even send anyone to Luxembourg. So you can see that these cooperation agreements do not work. And that's because it's pure competition. That is the institutional framework: competition between the regions. What we need for a decent climate policy is to stop that competition. Of course, we are proposing today, by amending Article 7a, that it is decided somewhere that these standards are binding, for everyone, that there is no competition between the regions, that it is not Flanders first, Wallonia first, Brussels first, but that we say together with one standard that it is -55 % or -65 %. You do not want that, however. And you know very well, Mr Verherstraeten, that if we do it as you wish, we will not take a step forward in Belgium in the next few years on climate policy. You know that very well. And I'm so sorry about that, intellectually. You're torpedoing it. Liberals are clear, they drive for the money; they have to raise money and climate policy doesn't pay off. But you know very well, the ACV is mobilizing, Marc Leemans has been on the actions. Your constituency is in favour of the amendment of Article 7a. And what are you doing? You choose the other side. I am very sorry about that, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u133	Mr Hedebouw, the way in which one does not say how far one should go. We believe that further progress is needed. We believe that we need to move faster. We believe that what we have committed ourselves to is still insufficient and that we in Europe will have to argue for higher objectives, which will therefore have to increase our country's share. But if we are consistent, we know that the structure of our country will have to be agreed at some point. Cooperation agreements will still have to be concluded in the proposal of the proposers following a constitutional amendment, following an amendment of a special law. Otherwise, concrete measures will never be taken and effective progress will never be made. That's what this is about. We want effective progress on climate, don't we?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u134	Mr Verherstraeten, no one disputes the need for cooperation after the adoption of a special climate law. The only question is what framework will be needed for cooperation. I think we should note that the method of the cooperation agreement has shown its limits in the past. You're even suggesting that we close four. In the past few years, Mr Verherstraeten, we have not completed these four cooperation agreements until 2058. No one disputes the need for cooperation. We would only like cooperation to have a basis, an anchor. The problem with your method is not just the method of cooperation agreement. You have just asked me to pay attention to your proposal and to assess it on its merits. In the meantime, I had a chance to assess your proposal. Well, it's an empty box, Mr Verherstraeten. You're deleting the targets. You refer to objectives in the explanatory memorandum. We have been talking for weeks and months to register the objectives in a special law. The Verherstraeten slope consists of entering the objectives in the explanatory memorandum. That's not serious. Moreover, Mr Verherstraeten, in the explanatory statement, you do not set out any Belgian objectives. You are referring purely to European objectives. That's the first problem with the run of CD&V. The second problem is that in your proposal, all the principles enshrined in the special climate law, including the rule that climate action should be fair and social, go on. The third problem is that you delete everything regarding independent experts. I understand why. It is those experts who in recent years have been on the skin of CD&V ministers like Joke Schauvliege, to tell them that it is not enough. That is why your proposal no longer includes independent experts. The fourth problem concerns all aspects of the social debate. The role of parliaments, climate day, everything is going to die. We want to look for modalities, for things that can bind us, but your proposal today, Mr Verherstraeten, is not a solution. It's more of the same. It's an empty box. I would have liked to see it different, but unfortunately those are the facts. That's your proposal. Our group is very sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u135	I can only regret the fact that Green colleagues are now finding a method, which they suggested in the Chamber in 2008, a worn-out method. Then they thought it was the best method. They then proposed mandatory cooperation agreements on greenhouse gas emission reduction. At that time they proposed to do so with mandatory cooperation agreements, not anymore. That was ten years ago, but I'm just going back two years. You have here approved a sixth state reform together with us in the previous legislature. One of Mr Vuye's criticisms was the number of mandatory and non-binding cooperation agreements contained in that sixth state reform. Then all that was optimal and now it's all old-fashioned and worn out. One can change one's point of view. That is the right of every group. Accept that there are also groups that maintain their position in all circumstances because they have shown that progress can be made in other areas, even in this area. Sometimes it's slow, but it's progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u136	Actually, it's a shame to see!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u137	(...) but I cannot let this pass. If you are talking about the earlier Green proposals, you are contradicting yourself. Just now, Mr Verherstraeten said that Green never submitted proposals, and now he is waving a Green proposal. Mr Becq, that was ten years ago. We are a group that is trying to learn and drawing lessons from the experience of the last ten years. That is a first point. Secondly, Mr Verherstraeten, even at that time, the method of the compulsory cooperation agreement was already combined with quantified objectives for Belgium, something you do not do in your proposal. Thirdly, I find it odd that the CD&V group has such a huge problem with the amendment of Article 7a. That point has not yet been addressed today. Mr Beke, where did we get the mustard? With CD&V. I didn't have to look long. I already have two recent proposals from the Flemish Christian Democrats, CD&V, to amend Article 7a. The first is one of Van Rompuy Jr. from 2012. It is an extensive proposal from the Senate that he wanted to add not just a sentence but a whole encyclopedia to Article 7a to introduce a debt brake into our Constitution. It was not limited to a principle laid down in a sentence as we want to do today on climate, it was a whole encyclopedia. Then CD&V allowed something to be done about Article 7a, apparently not anymore. More recently, in 2017, CD&V proposed an amendment to Article 7a to include animal rights in our Constitution. Colleagues, I do not understand why CD&V now has such a huge problem of adding a sentence to Article 7a. The problem, of course, is not the method, the problem is the content. Like Open Vld, CD&V has an incredible fear of binding climate goals. Then just say that. Do not try to blame it on the method, because you have used that method yourself for other themes. You're just afraid of getting a thick pipe for your climate report over the next few years, as has been the case in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u138	Mr President, Mr Calvo, with the method of your speech you are repeating with all due respect. You speak well, but you can't listen at all. I have just said that it took years before you submitted anything. At the time, I was not talking about the proposal for a special law. I was referring at that time to the amendment of Article 7a. Despite the fact that the article has been declared subject to revision since 2010, you have submitted nothing in this respect until the last three months of the legislature. That is what this was about and not about the proposal to amend special law, which you did in 2008 and which you now renounce. That is your right, but it is our right to maintain the proposal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a method also suggested by experts, because it is precisely in cooperation agreements that we can go much deeper and much more detailed than in a special law. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the method. The Council of State rightly pointed out that climate powers are primarily a regional competence. In the first instance, therefore, the responsibility rests with the regions to achieve climate objectives. The proposers of the proposal do not opt for the fifth option of the Council of State, in particular refederalisation. If one does not wish to re-federalise, the involvement of the Länder through a cooperation agreement is preferable to a special law in which they are not involved. Colleagues, cooperation agreements can indeed sometimes take a long time. Cooperation agreements are a consensual process, which takes time. I do not think we have much time left. We agree on that. However, the implementation of a special law is also a consensual process. The conclusion of cooperation agreements is another step in this direction. Colleagues, I would like to summarize the point. The climate is better served by agreements that are carried out quickly, rather than by quick amendments to a special law, which then remain dead letter. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible. It is also a question of doing so in a feasible, affordable and acceptable way. The federal government and the Länder, and especially those with the greatest authority, should be on the table as soon as possible in order to work out precise and detailed targets for greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, renewable energy, international climate financing and the distribution of revenues from allowances. This requires cooperation agreements that we can ratify in the parliaments. We share climate ambitions with the proposers. We differ only from methods. But whatever piste comes out of the bus, cooperation will always be necessary. Colleagues, we are almost at the end of the legislature. These are debates on methods and resources. After the elections, I hope to speak with you and with all the groups not about special laws, but about concrete initiatives, concrete laws, concrete decrees, concrete decisions to make effective progress and achieve those objectives that the professors and we all want to achieve, and which are necessary for a better climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's vote is not about who is for or against a strong climate policy. We all in the hemisphere hope that we shall have a strong climate law, a clear climate law that meets the various objectives that are being set. We hope so, but that is not the issue today. Today we are discussing the method for discussing climate law in the Chamber. It seems that there is a desire to work out a method through a constitutional revision. The question today is whether we give the keys to climate policy out of our hands to third parties or whether we, as politicians, assume that responsibility ourselves. This is what our group wants, that we accept our own responsibility as politicians. Climate warming is a major challenge. That is why we have already committed our country at international and European level to reducing global warming, reducing emissions and making our energy production sustainable. We know where the bar is. So we need, above all, smart, feasible, affordable climate measures so that we can jump over that bar. We Liberals have understood the message of society very well. We have listened to the young people on the streets, who accuse politics of a lack of action, who have said that we need to show more ambition, who expect politics to come up with plans to ensure a better future for everyone. And they're right, friends. My group responds to this call by drawing up very concrete measures which are also feasible and affordable and for which there can be rapid support in Parliament. We have already submitted all our texts. For example, I refer to the greening of the fleet, the accelerated renovation of the homes and the transition to renewable energy via windmills at sea. This means that we can talk about how climate policy is conducted in our country. We too admit that it can be faster, more effective and more transparent. The policy does indeed need objectives and anchor points to assess progress. However, the proposed constitutional revision is completely in the opposite direction. The text is not intended to facilitate the implementation of climate policy, but to make fundamental adjustments to the way our democracy works. With the proposed amendment of the Constitution, we run away from political responsibility. By expressing the objectives in the Constitution and in special laws, no political majority will in future have to take responsibility for its own policies. After all, it will be a free pass to force any measure on the people with the argument that it must be because of the Constitution. If it is not the future governments that are taking far-reaching action, then it will be the court. With this proposal to amend the Constitution, there is a legal risk that anyone can go to court tomorrow to demand drastic action from the government, as long as it helps the objectives forward. In that case, Parliament can close the doors tomorrow, because climate policy will be issued through the courts, without any democratic control or contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u140	Mr Van Biesen, we have already discussed the argument you are raising in detail in committee. Two elements in your argument are problematic. Firstly, there will be no objectives in the Constitution. Of course, the intention is to enter that one sentence in the Constitution, but that is not an objective. The objective will not be achieved until later in the climate law. The aim is to make a more coherent and integrated policy possible. Secondly, there are more principles in the Constitution: the right to housing, for example. Today, that is a fundamental right. If we fail as a country because we do not approve the necessary laws and principles of protection, people can go to court to point out their constitutional freedoms. That is not the govern ment of justice, it is democracy. That is the foundation of democracy. I find it particularly scary for a party that has "doing" as a slogan and calls itself Open Vld, to say on the one hand that the formulation of an ambition in the Constitution is beautiful, but on the other hand to warn about what will happen if we fail to fulfil that ambition. I would just like to think that, with the innovative possibilities that exist, and the support of the CEOs that I have just listed to you, you would have the wind in the sails and say that we will achieve those objectives without any difficulty. What happened to voluntarism? Don't tell the people it's heading in the direction of the government of justice. That is fundamentally incorrect. Do not tell the people that you are afraid to put that ambition into the Constitution, because you will actually say that you do not believe in your own abilities. That is a message that I, as a democrat and a believer in the rule of law, will never bring. This is the moment to put that ambition into our Constitution. Either you seize the opportunity, or you don't seize them; but don't use the excuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u141	Mr Van Biesen, I have already heard you in committee the day before yesterday, stating this argument: "the power of judges", or "the government of judges". You say that the decision will ultimately go to the judges. But can you explain to me how the proposed constitutional article, or the proposed special law, gives a particular jurisdiction in this matter to a court? Apart from the general powers to monitor the legality of laws by the Constitutional Court, and to monitor compliance with the hierarchy of norms, can you tell me where, in the envisaged provisions, it would be written that the power of the last word would belong to the magistrates? From what provisions do you deduct this? I ask you to give me a serious legal demonstration of this, rather than continue to tell this nonsense, which you profess day after day, in all the enclosures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u142	Mr Maingain, this will not be the first day, but the second in a row that I will have to contradict. Soon you will be angry again because you are wrong, but in Article 7a, which is to be added, it is written that the decision on what an effective climate policy is will certainly not be in the hands of this hemisphere, but in the hands of judges who will be able to judge any measure. That is the essence of the matter. Why do you choose the path of constitutional reform, Mrs Almaci? Why do you do that? You knew very well that there was very great democratic support for this in Flanders. Open Vld, CD&V and the N-VA do not wish to follow the path of constitutional reform, but do wish to work with mandatory cooperation agreements. That's the essence of the story. You have pushed through your will and tried, together with all the French-speaking parties, to make it look like you want to pursue climate policy and are the climate improvers and we are the climate degenerates. In this respect, you are playing it politically, not us. There is no way of saying that the liberals do not want to cooperate in any way with a climate law. We have presented you with proposals. We have tried in every way to green the fleet and to do renovations. Such measures are not only concrete, but also feasible and affordable. Then you were silent on all fronts. But no, you had to have a trophy. You had to make sure that, by any means, here in this hemisphere today a game would be played, together with the French speakers, the Greens and the Socialists, which allowed you today to say that you are the climate improvers and all the rest in Flanders are the climate degenerates. We don't want to be part of that game.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u143	In fact, I am sorry to have to replicate what Mr Van Biesen says in this way, because I have worked well with him on various issues. By the way, I just said that about CD&V. I regret that you are taking the same path as in the committee because it does not please you and because I know that it is a desperate attempt. You're trying to create a contradiction where there isn't one. Not so long ago, Open Vld proposed a CO2 vignette, not long after we proposed our climate plan. Our climate plan includes a carbon border tax, a moonshot strategy, innovation, collaboration with industry, greening of commercial vehicles, a clear choice of salary cars, more nature, introducing the concrete stop and tackling costs. It contains more than 60 measures, which I am also looking at Open Vld to see how we can make them possible. It hurts my heart to see how you're trying to beat this up to a story of greens. As I have just said, this amendment, an amendment that was not written by us, but by the Council of State, is a choice, not for keeping old doors open, which are the other options, because that is the difference between us, with you and CD&V, but a choice for opening an extra door. And then I ask you, since when is a voluntarist party against opening extra doors? Since when do you say that creating new possibilities are bad options? Everything you propose is perfectly possible. We ask you to create a new option to make that possible, and you say together with CD&V that you will not do so. N-VA is coherent and doesn't want a climate law tout court, but I don't understand how a party like Open Vld opens its eyes to something we haven't written. You could have filed it from us. You were allowed to be a co-signator. We wouldn't have preferred anything, but you didn't. Then don't point your finger at us, but put your hand in your own bosom. The choice was yours, you didn't take it. The opinion was from the Council of State and we have submitted it with colleagues. That's a different story than what you're trying to make of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u144	Mr President, Mrs Almaci, I am sorry, but the path chosen is a constitutional revision and has nothing to do with whether, together with normal legislation, we can make a good climate law. We are all in favour of a good climate law. We are all very attentive to all the questions and comments. It is not a privilege of Green or any other party to say that we alone have the right to think about it. No, basically we have been working on this for months. And we are listening to everyone on the street, and to the professors, who are telling us that in the long term we have a problem with climate policy. We want to work on that. The path you're taking today, the path you've figured out, is to specifically put us, CD&V and the N-VA, in a separate corner. You choose this path with the intention to polarize and divide the camp into climate improvers and climate degenerates. That's the truth! Then what are we arguing for? The answer is very simple and is also contained in the opinion of the Council of State, ladies and gentlemen, namely a binding cooperation agreement. Mr Verherstraeten just pointed out how this binding cooperation agreement could be defined. However, I do not understand the following from the Greens, who are one group here, Ecolo and Green together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u145	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u146	No, I don't mind at all, Mr. Cheron. I do not understand why you are questioning the federalism of cooperation. You say that this is no longer possible, that we can no longer make agreements between the regions, that you want to regulate everything federally again, because you no longer believe in the federal Belgian state. That's what you do!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u147	Mr Van Biesen, the Greens show every day that can work together in our country. It is a pity that there is no such unity in the liberal family around this theme. I'd also like to make a small correction. You say the greens were out to put the Open Vld and CD&V in the corner of those who don't want to move forward. You chose that angle. I'll explain myself. You say that we have deliberately chosen the path of the Constitution to isolate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u148	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u149	No, no. You said from the first day, anyone can consult that you are against a climate law. That's what you said about the first day. You didn't put that away either. The track of the Constitution did not appear until later, following the opinion of the Council of State, but it was already clear that the Open Vld was not actually a asking party, even opposed to a climate law. Now, because you feel that the support is much greater than a few weeks ago, you're trying to save your face by saying that you did want a climate law, but another one. Anyone can consult that the Flemish liberals were opposed from the outset to a real climate law. I think that is a pity, and it is a credit to the French-speaking liberals that they have crossed the Rubicon in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u150	Mr Calvo, we were against the empty box you presented, we admit that. We wanted a full box, a real climate law with feasible and concrete measures. Let us be honest, we have not seen it. We are in favour of a special law and the obligation to conclude cooperation agreements between states and federal authorities on the objectives and how to achieve them. There can still be involvement, for example, of civil society and of experts, but in a positive way and not because these institutions and structures must all be included in the letter of the law. Our group will not surprise you if you vote with conviction against this constitutional reform because we believe that a democratic climate policy should be a matter for politics, but not for courts or technocrats. Because we believe in governments that work together, including in this country, colleagues, rather than in a refederalisation where one government will tell another what to do. We remain willing, as from the first day, to talk about a workable and feasible climate law. Next week, in the Committee on the Environment, we can look perfectly at how we can adjust the special climate law in a reasonable way, I would say: fill your empty box with concrete and feasible measures that are affordable. We reach out to anyone who wants to do something about it, instead of radicalising it and saying who is good and bad in this story. We reach out and want to fill your climate law, your empty box, with concrete, feasible and, above all, affordable measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that some people are starting to get excited may have to do with the late hour, or perhaps with the fact that they have little real arguments to put forward and try to hide it in this way. What I have heard so far is that everyone agrees that Belgium is failing in terms of climate policy. No one has said today that we are doing enough. Several statements have shown that there are measures, but we are not doing enough. Several reports show that if we do nothing, we are heading for disaster. I choose my words consciously: if we do nothing, it is a disaster. That is not just what the reports say, and not only the colleagues say that the people in the street are aware of it. Mr Verherstraeten has given young people a flower, as he said. He said that if there is one case in which they have succeeded, it is the creation of a wider consensus on climate policy. Let us be honest, our ministers didn't think it was important, maybe several people didn't think it was important, but they created the basis of support. If people want to change things in the world, they need a great deal of support. We are now at that point. One says it's an election trophy, the other says they're polarizing, another thinks it's an empty box. At the end of the day we are faced with the question of whether we are doing something about it or not? A special climate law has been tabled. It is not the proposers who proposed to amend Article 7a. It is the Council of State that has indicated different slopes. It is the Council of State that has said that provided that an amendment to Article 7a can work the special climate law and has a chance of success. I hear colleagues making the point that we are not going to let the judges decide what we do or do not do. That, too, is a mistake, ladies and gentlemen. Article 7a of the Constitution will only allow the federal government to pull the cart, nothing else. The objectives will be set out in the climate law, no more and no less. The argument that we do not want the judges to decide is really a fallacy. Colleagues from CD&V, you indicated the second and third runs. You said that we live in a democratic country. Everyone can have the right to decide what they think is the best choice. I think that's right. I believe that we are indeed living in a democratic country and that everyone is entitled to his or her opinion. We all started from the observation that too little is being done in our country in terms of climate and that action must therefore be taken quickly. Measures must be taken quickly to improve climate policy. What I do not understand, Mr Verherstraeten, is that you yourself indicated that you were looking for support when we changed the Constitution in the past. You're an experienced politician. There are still experienced politicians in this Parliament. If you consciously choose the third option instead of the second option, you also know that you choose an option that is not feasible. Four solutions are provided to you. You're gonna get two out. You know that with the second option you can achieve something, but still you choose the third option. I do not understand this position of CD&V. In addition, you come up with an alternative. I have heard no alternative from N-VA and Open Vld. You come up with an alternative which includes compulsory cooperation. You may have missed it, but there will also be cooperation in the climate law. The only difference is that this ambition will be more ambitious and binding, and of course we will do so with the regions. Today we see that our country of Europe had to set objectives for each region. Do you know how long it has taken our country, despite the existing cooperation agreements? It took six years for the regions to agree among themselves who will do what. That is the reality of today, and that is why these cooperation agreements do not work. That is why the special climate law needs to be adopted today. By denying this, you're ignoring the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u152	It is true that a climate cooperation agreement has long been delayed. This agreement was not limited to the climate, but also concerned with energy. The fact that it has taken so long is not only due to the too long period of current cases, but also to bickering between the entities and the federal government. That is quite right, and I have just said so in my speech. I would like to hope that the next cooperation agreement, which covers the period 2021-2030, will be able and will be able to do so more quickly. Why? One can split it up. On the one hand energy and on the other hand climate. Which makes the object smaller. One can also treat them together. If that is what we want, we can do it as far as I am concerned. That is the responsibility of each entity itself. However, we do now have a climate plan 2020-2030, which can be a framework on which we can continue to work and which is likely to speed things up. Besides, I think it should go faster. At the end of 2019, at the end of this year, we need to go to the United Nations to show where we stand with our intentions on CO2 reduction and what we will do. We will have to do more than possibly amend the Constitution or amend a special law. We will have to come up with concrete suggestions and concrete measures, and with budgets on the other hand. However, anyone who has been very critical of the cooperation agreement for the period up to 2020 and has said that it has taken far too long will have to note that we approved it here last week, despite the long-term chamber, with a few abstentions. In other words, you also approved it. I assume that whoever approved that cooperation agreement is also in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u153	Of course we have approved it. But our point is that it has taken far too long. Your argument is therefore not sufficient. I stand by it, cooperation agreements have proved today that they are not working. You come up with the alternative to a mandatory cooperation agreement, which will not bring a solution. The special climate law ensures that the federal government will pull the strings, that the plans are more compelling and ambitious, and that is the slope we are following today. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the choice of colour today. You have today the choice to show solidarity for future generations. You have the choice today to offer people security, security in terms of climate, but also security in terms of purchasing power. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will think carefully about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u154	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2015 we signed the Paris Agreement following COP21. The whole world was committed to limiting climate disruption to 1.5°C, a large maximum of 2°C. Today, at the end of March 2019, where are we? Looking at the sum of all the commitments that have been made by the countries, the road on which we are committed leads us to a global warming of more than 3.5°C. It's not tenable! This is contrary to what we have all signed following the Paris Agreement! It's not tenable and yet, we continue. We're acting like nothing's going on! Here as elsewhere! Yet the planet is burning. Remember this summer! The heat wave hit us. The planet is burning and we see it all over the world. More than 60 million victims of climate change! More than 2 million people who have had to travel this year, including by leaving their country, becoming climate refugees! The planet is burning, and the Open Vld and CD&V are watching elsewhere. They're looking at calculations of a technical nature. They hide behind excuses that are not. Today, following the mobilization of young people, following various demonstrations, following the action of academics, following the pressure exerted by different NGOs, trade unions, but also business owners, there is a desire in public opinion to challenge the whole political world, to the challenge of taking the path of the Paris Agreement, to the challenge of simply re-adjusting, as far as possible, to the trajectory of the latter. What is the answer this assembly is about to give? What will your vote be in a few moments? I hope that what has happened in committee can be confirmed in plenary and that a majority of Parliament will give a positive signal - not to say that we have achieved it, far from it. It is well known that a series of measures, including difficult measures, will have to be taken. Nevertheless, a majority will be able to say that we have determined in a constitutionally founded text a quantified objective for Belgium. Let's not wait for others to make the effort. Let's hire ourselves. This is simply what is proposed to the vote today, with in the text – Mr Verherstraeten, this is the whole difference between your text and ours – numerical targets for Belgium. This is a fundamental issue. As António Guterres once again said this morning: at the global level, climate policy lacks leadership. There was a time when Belgium was in the cockpit. Look where it is today in the European debates, whether at the time of the debate on energy efficiency with retrograde countries such as Poland, at the time of the debate on renewable energy in the last three or four European countries. Are we proud to see Belgium so relegated to the bench of the last of the European class? Do we consider everything all right? No, of course not. And that is why we must go back to climate policy in a more important legal norm, a fundamental legal norm. Of course, the special law and the Council of State tell us that we need to go further. It is necessary to propose a complement through another track. The Constitution is the most logical, secure, simple and fundamental way forward. That's why we chose her. We didn't do it out of fun for the simple pleasure of adding a sentence to the Constitution, nor to bother you, Mr Verherstraeten. Just because it is the strongest, most direct and most meaningful path to what is expected of a fundamental text such as the Constitution, as long as it is respected, and I know that your choice is to respect it. Do you really think it makes sense in 2019 that there are no climate-related phrases in the 100 articles that the Constitution counts? When we see the impact climate policy can have in the context of sustainable development, when we see all that is said today on the fact that this climate policy determines the ability to have a social, economic or migratory policy (I have quoted the figures on population displacement), it is not logical for a state that wants to be modern to not even mention the word "climate" in its Constitution. Apart from any reflection in connection with the opinion of the Council of State or with the special law that is necessary or possible to amend, the mere fact of refusing to include the word "climate" in the Constitution today is a heavy one, and we cannot accept it. We will continue this fight, which will not end today with the vote. The young people who were before Parliament made it clear to us. Dear colleagues from Open Vld and CD&V, do not think for a moment that they will let you go! Don't think for a moment they'll let us go! Beyond the vote, there are measures to be taken. It's the planet we'll let them who's at stake, and they know it. From the very beginning, my colleague Almaci and I have said so. This is just a step. It is necessary, but largely insufficient. Everyone will obviously have to take responsibility for the measures, but it is easier to take action when you know where you want to go, when the course is determined. What you're preventing here is that we have a common course, while we're in a position to do it. The Council of State says so. That's why I insisted so much earlier on the following. In the text of your cooperation agreement, what bothers me is not the pipe or path you take. What bothers me is that there are no more goals. You put it in the proofs. When we read these, there are no objectives for Belgium. There is a European objective, but I am sorry: this one, we have already adopted it in a stronger norm, the resolution. The resolution is stronger than the justifications for an amendment. You are moving backwards in relation to the objectives we should be moving towards, that is to say, the commitment that Belgium is making for itself. She must take the lead, show her will to move forward. I do not understand this position, and I also tell the Chair of the CD&V. We could find ways to dialogue. Since last Tuesday, signals have been sent. Sentences other than those written by academics were possible in the Constitution. But why refuse to include and anchor this climate policy? I don't understand. I say again: the work is not finished. On 27 May, a new page in Belgium's history will be written anyway, no matter what happens to the result. I believe that the debate that we have today will not end, and that the same debate will have to continue at this time, provided that we agree to look at the facts. What are the facts? Mr Van Biesen, you were in committee and you said that Flanders was moving forward, that you did not need texts in the Constitution. I went to see the numbers and the results. Flanders' 2020 target, in its 2013 Climate Plan, in the non-ETS sector, i.e. the sector that does not suffer the impact of European policies, is as follows. You know him: ‐15.7%. What does the Flemish administration indicate to the Flemish Government about the likely state of affairs of 2020? Will we be at 15%? No. Will we be ‐13%, ‐12%? No. At ‐10%? At ‐7%? No. We'll be at ‐5%. To be precise, it will be even ‐4.7%. Is that what the pride you want to report in committee is based on? Is that what leads you to say that there is no need for standards or special legislation, and that nothing should be included in the Constitution? Are you really so proud of those numbers? You know, Mr Van Biesen, it's less good than Donald Trump's US: 4.7% in 2020, compared to a target of 15.7%! Don't you think it's time to act? You say we should have standards and then take action? "No, it's all right! We put in place the right thing." We see the results! To put it frankly, this is not the picture I made of you and your party on these goals. For having had a long dialogue in the Inter-Parliamentary Committee with Mr Schiltz in the Flemish Parliament, I thought it was possible to build something. But I say again, as I said earlier to the CD&V colleagues, I am convinced that this work will have to be resumed. He's unfinished today. We cannot send a disappointing final message to all those who have mobilized. Rather, it is a message of hope that we must be able to send them today: "Yes, the lines have moved. Thanks to you, the lines have moved. Not enough, but still quickly." It is not Mr Clarinval who will contradict me: it is enough to see the differences in position between last Monday and the previous Monday. Hat to the colleagues of the MR for having been able to question each other! The positions have evolved because the arguments have been given. It was regrettable that others had not been able to do so too. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I will take up a statement from Greta Thunberg when she was received in Davos: "We are running out of time, but you are – at the Vld and the CD&V – running out of excuses." There are no arguments that hold. Just a few months ago. That's all you'll get. What we want to get, we will get it because simply we have no choice. We need to engage in more ambitious policies. Contrary to what you said, these policies will bring employment, relocate employment to our home. You read the studies, Mr. Van Biesen. I know you. We entered at the same time. And I know you're a man of numbers. You have chosen these figures: 80 000 jobs in 2030, 2 % more growth. These are numbers that must resonate in your logic. These figures should guide you towards more voluntarism. No, I don't! There's got to be another lobby! Of course, there are still lobbies against which we still have to fight. Of course! I quoted it in committee, the boss of Total is still asking for time. It's like we still have some. It's like we're still ten years ahead of us! I repeat Guterres: "If we do not reverse the trend within ten years, it will be too late." And I said it in committee! We're not negotiating with the Gulf stream. You can summon it to Val Duchesse or elsewhere, the climate. That's impossible! At some point, you have to be lucid and I ask you for more. I ask you to take these figures into account. The more we wait, the more it will cost us. A European study tells us that Belgium would be the country that would benefit most in terms of job returns from policies related to combating climate change. Why don't you do it? I don't understand the logic you're closing in to. Mr President, in conclusion, the planet is burning. There's an emergency. I would like to send three messages to those who are mobilized and I will finish by that. First of all, I thank them because they have famously awakened us all. Let's not pretend! They wet their shirts and took risks in relation to their schooling. They did the job, they did it. Then I have a message of anger: I regret to be still part of a furnace that is not able with a sufficient majority to respond to the call that you have made. Finally, it's not over! The work will soon resume on the same text or in any case on the same intentions with the desire to go to the end with objectives that will have to be quantified. In October 2020, our country will have to put back its new goals anyway. Earlier, by December 2019 at the latest, the PNEC will have to be submitted in its final version. In September 2019, Antonio Guterres convenes a climate summit and Belgium will have to be in place. In May, other texts will have to commit the country for several years. I think, Mr President, that everyone did their job, the young people, including the Jong Vld, even though they were called to order and could not be present today. I think that lawyers, climatologists, NGOs, trade unions and the administration – your administration too, Madam Minister –, economic leaders, the own electorate of the Vld and the CD&V – we saw the polls in this area – all of them did the job. The only ones who won't do it today are these two groups, but I think that will change soon. Anyway, I hope so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u155	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this evening or tonight, we are invited to insert a paragraph 2 in Article 7a of the Constitution. I explained in committee all the reasons, the legal and political reasons, which led me and my group to support this proposal. I am one of the signatories. In today's debate, I will only make five remarks. First point: it is feasible, since Article 7a is included in the 2014 revision declaration and I would add that Article 7a is included without restriction, without precision, without comment. We have the power to intervene. That is at least one point on which we will all agree, it seems to me! Second point: it is feasible, but it is also necessary. That is what the legislation section of the Council of State has told us. It is essential to give a special law a constitutional anchor. It is necessary to give a constitutional basis to a law, such as that prepared by the collective of university professors, as laid down by several of our colleagues on February 6. As much as you need! I would point out that the legislator can use the special law process only on one condition. This is a fundamental condition. Every time, the legislator must find in the Constitution an article, a paragraph, a provision that empowers it to legislate in this way. I think this rule of procedure may have been forgotten at some point by some. Third point: it is feasible, it is necessary, but at the same time, it is useful. I did not hear, during this evening, mention one element of the constitutional text. Article 7bis is enshrined in a particular title of the Constitution, which is Title I bis. Indeed, this is the unique provision. But this title Ia, what is the purpose of it, the title? These are "General policy objectives of Federal Belgium, the Communities and the Regions". Let us recognize this, and I say it in a simple way, and that is where some of our colleagues find it. What are these objectives? The first is in the first paragraph of Article 7a. The Constitution states that it is sustainable development – as was recalled earlier – in its social, economic and environmental aspects. Paragraph 2 of the same article – the one under discussion – states that it is a matter of enabling climate policy in the context of sustainable development and, above all, for methodological reasons, to do so in a coherent, harmonised, coordinated and jointly decided manner. The Council of State tells us in all its letters, when the climate is a shared matter, the least that is that the partners agree on the procedures that will enable them to reach a solution, even if they plan somewhat on the skills that are theirs. If everyone camps on their positions by saying: "It's mine, and no one can touch it", then it will never be possible to design and implement a bold and, at the very least, coherent climate policy. I am not on the side of those who want to show – consciously or not, no matter what – that federalism does not work. Nor am I among those who find an example in the climate issue that inter-institutional collaborations do not work or work badly. I am not one of those who develop chaos theory, including on the backs of future generations, to fuel centrifugal discourse. Fourth point. This time I am on the drafting stage of the legal texts. I recognize that, as a general rule, I am not in favour of incorporating into the Constitution provisions that would simply be symbolic in scope. Besides, here, that's not the case. This is not symbolic since the Council of State tells us that there is a constitutional airlock to be established in order to enable the realization of a special law. The need is proven, but I think that beyond this concern, which is that of a coherent order of legal rules (constitution, special laws, possibly ordinary laws, cooperation agreements, etc.). There is perhaps a more symbolic concern that can also be imposed today. Parliament can show with a vote, not as some say, a small text or a small paragraph – there is no small text in the Constitution, we agree – that we are not deaf, that we are not blind, that we are able to respond intelligently to the concerns of our society and our youth. Fifth point: the text is obviously improved. I'm one of the signatories. We must adopt texts which, if you will allow me to say so, can be sustainable and long-lasting. This is both a formal observation and a substantive one. On the form, I regret - and I have said it in committee - that the proposal I have signed invites the State, the Communities and the Regions, I quote, "to cooperate in a climate policy", to the limit of making cooperation agreements on climate policy! I understand the idea, but I would have liked it to be expressed in a different way to say that the State, the Communities and the Regions are contributing to a climate policy that respects the principles, procedures and modalities laid down in a special law. But – I insist – it's not just a matter of form! It is also a matter of substance! Some have only cooperation agreements in their mouths. They do not like the constitutional way; they prefer the conventional way. They do not like the path of a framework that would be binding on all! In fact, they forget that the Constitution and the special law have a merit, that of establishing standards a priori, whereas the cooperation agreement is only binding a posteriori if it obtains the agreement of all the parties concerned. They also forget to say that the Constitution bears witness to the accession of the assemblies - by qualified majority - and of the government on the objectives of tomorrow, while the cooperation agreement, if any, will be drafted by the governments concerned. And what will we, the small Members of Parliament, still have to do? We will have to give consent, as in international matters, by a yes or a no, without the possibility of making any amendments, to a text that has been conceived elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you who are representatives of the Nation, you who have all been democratically elected, I ask you: where is the progress of democracy in these modes of reasoning, in these ways of working? Why do you so easily accept being dispossessed of the skills that are yours? I'm not teaching you anything. This may be my weakness, but I believe in the eminent value of the Constitution. My first job has always been to explain to the younger generation that we must believe in the Constitution: not blindly, not absurdly, not in a servile manner, but by being convinced that the Constitution is the instrument that tells us, and which tells them, the values we believe in, the objectives we set ourselves in a democratic way, the Belgian State in which we want to live. I have only one word to add, but I think it makes a lot of sense: do not disappoint them! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at an exceptional moment, exceptional procedure. Everyone agrees that there is an emergency. We have heard of Al Gore, we have heard of all the international scientific leaders who remind us that we are facing an emergency situation. In an emergency, an emergency legal response. Francis Delperée has just told us the value of revising the Constitution in relation to other legal choices. I would like to join him on other points and give further arguments, but I would like to join most of those he has put forward. First of all, I am speaking to all those who come to tell us that the Royal Way in Legal Matters is the cooperation agreements. Let us stop pretending that cooperation agreements are spontaneously born with a kind of enthusiasm shared between the different entities of this country! It's not because one or the other cooperation agreement was concluded... I'm not going to go back to the ER. One might also mention another expert who recently said that the RER, we may not see it soon. Read Mr Bertieaux's interview in La Libre Belgique d'hier, particularly with regard to tariff unification. But let's get on with it. Oh, I could talk to you about the metropolitan community. We are still waiting for the cooperation agreement. What have we not heard that the cooperation agreement will finally bring about a convergence of mobility policies, which is essential, especially for climatic reasons? Who's blocking it? We know him. We know what the government is. There is no compulsory cooperation agreement, contrary to what I have heard, as long as there is a government in Belgium that decides not to prepare a cooperation agreement; as long as there is a government that refuses to engage in a converging process. That is the major fact of what is being proposed to us today. And so, the cooperation agreement is permanent blackmail by a single government, if it so wishes. This is what had to be overcome because the urgency is that we no longer accept this blackmail from a single level of power. It is true that the special law and the revision of the Constitution require continuity, because the Constitution is obviously not amended every year, because a special law is not amended every year. You are therefore obliged to register with continuity. And the objectives of combating global warming require this continuity. It is true that the special law that has been proposed to us is singular. It probably goes beyond what we know in the traditional Belgian legal order. It is not just a law of division of powers. Rather, it is a law of convergence of competences. That is why it is original. That's why she's interesting. It is in this way, perhaps, that it exceeds the constitutional limits of our country. Given the exceptional situation, it proposes a clear legal path in terms of policy convergence. Does it provide the federated entities with their expertise? Nothing. There is no hierarchy of standards in the bill before us. In no way, a government is excluded. There is an interministerial conference. But there are methodologies on the basis of which all bodies in this country are required to achieve the objectives. That is what I call the special law of convergence of powers. I recognize that it is original, but it is indispensable in the present circumstances and given the stakes. Finally, I am surprised to hear that incorporating the convergence of Belgium's policies in order to achieve the climate policy objectives imposed on us by the international agreements in the Constitution would ultimately be rather poor in legal terms, whereas it should rather be a collective pride? It should be a collective pride to say that, given the seriousness of this issue, we may be the first country to make it a priority in an article of its Constitution, which offers us, moreover, the opportunity to affirm it with some relevance, since we link it with the objective of sustainable development. Rarely have we had the opportunity, in our Constitution, to express things in such an essential way in relation to such a determined issue. After that, we are told that there would be no content to the special law. You really don't want to read it or read the goals! We really must not want to read the provisions that say that, in the integrated plan Economy, Energy and Climate, the provisions that will be made mandatory by the Interministerial Conference will be binding on all levels of power. It's not annoyance, it's essential. It is the convergence of policies that I described. I find it rather painful today that, where we could ultimately be the constitutional vanguard in relation to a key issue, not only will we remain lagging behind in achieving our objectives under, in particular, the Paris Agreement, but we will above all remain paralysed, weakened, perhaps even legally incapable of finally honouring our international commitments. This is the most deplorable thing, when we had the opportunity here to overcome the constitutional locks and to show future generations and those who trust us to take on our responsibilities that we had the right answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u157	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as in committee, I would like to congratulate the Green Group very warmly. She has come to the Chamber with a proposal of special climate law, of which everyone knew from day 1 that it would never be approved, because there is no majority for it in the Dutch language group. However, we have been working on this for weeks and even months. No one else has ever shown you that stunt before. (Protests from Mr Calvo) Mr Calvo, accept my congratulations, I do not always throw flowers at you, so accept them when I do for once. What did my group say about the proposal for a special climate law? Mrs Wouters and I have written that it is no more or less a seventh state reform, a refederalisation. We were confronted in committee with the experts who denied all that. It is not a re-federalisation for them, it is not a seventh state reform. But when I asked them why not, they still owed me the answer. What does Professor Sottiaux say in the meantime? It's a seventh state reform, a re-federalisation. What does Professor Deketelaere, the spiritual father of environmental law in Flanders say? He was already working on that before others knew it existed. Well, he calls it a refederalisation, a seventh state reform. Of course, that is the case, because the special law intervenes very deeply in the powers of the Länder. The fantastic thing about the proposal is that the old Belgian locks are now suddenly resurrected and used to solve the climate problem. Who would have thought that old Belgian bric-à-brac would serve to solve a modern social problem? I never thought that the Belgian bars would bring it to this point, because normally these bars serve to establish the privileges of French speakers in the Constitution. Now they are even being used to give an image of a solution to the climate problem. We're working with a special law. The experts in De Standaard of 21 February have replied that a special law is "more visible and robust." Mr Delpérée, we are lucky that we are not going to be in Parliament for long, or we are going to lose everything here. After all, ladies and gentlemen, a special law has nothing to do with what the experts mentioned. There will be a special law when the Constitution stipulates that a particular matter must be regulated by a special law. The criterion is purely formal. Aesthetically opting for something robust or for something that sounds special is not a criterion. However, it is experts who have said so. Experts in what? Allow me to stick to a rhetorical question. The text was drawn up by experts and Green claims that we can approve it immediately, because it is a wonderful proposal. However, the text was submitted to the Council of State, which gave a wonderful second seat. Indeed, the Council of State says that Articles 39, 127 and 128 of the Constitution allow for the transfer of powers, but not for the exercise of powers, for the purpose of legitimising themselves. Then one is close to 1/20, if I quote widely. According to the Council of State, this can be solved by giving a constitutional basis for the special laws, but you did not. Apparently, the Council of State needs to help your experts. That's a little painful. The proposal on Article 7a is now before us. However, it is and remains a re-federalisation. That is the first reason why my group will not support it under any circumstances. Moreover, we do not support it for the following five reasons. Firstly, the special law that you want to approve only sets objectives. What happens, however, if a Land fails to meet its objectives? People don't know that. Zero response. If a state fails to achieve its objectives, nothing will happen. And that is what we want to save the climate! What is going to happen is that there will be climate issues. Mrs Almaci rightly said in committee that we are indeed and unfortunately already so far away that the decision-making power shifts from where it belongs, especially in this Chamber, to judges who have no democratic legitimacy or at least not the same as representatives of the people. And that leads to exactly the same thing as with the issue of Zaventem, namely judgments by various judges, who condemn governments, coupled with periodic penalty payments, which are also contradictory. I just heard the following question from Mr Van Biesen: 'Show me my one rule that a judge can use to condemn a government'. I've rarely gotten an easier question. Let me give you one example. One of the objectives is "to take the necessary sustainable adaptation measures in order to minimise the risks posed by climate change to humans and biodiversity." Do you know a standard that is even more open than that one? Do you know a standard that allows even more freedom of interpretation for a judge than that? With such standards, judges do what they want. They fill it out the way they want it. That's what's gonna happen. A third reason why we are against it is that seven new institutions should be set up. No, they say it's actually just one. Sorry, there are seven and you anchor them all in a special law, which is approved here by a special majority. So all these institutions are being locked up, exactly as if there are not enough institutions in this country and precisely as if there are not enough locks in this country yet. There is also a miracle in the special law: the Senate. Lazarus stands up from his grave. Mr Calvo has since run away, but he wanted to abolish the Senate by the end of December. At the end of January, he wants to assign new powers to the Senate. One has to know what one wants. It's either one or the other. Even CD&V can't reconcile these two things. Even CD&V can't do that. (...) : (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u158	I certainly don't. I'm not making any attempt, certainly not, but the Senate stands up as Lazarus from his grave, and gets new powers. However, I also want to be positive. I always try to be. I know that's not always interpreted that way, but nevertheless, I try to be. Today we are at a very important moment in the history of justice, one of the most important moments ever. One can solve problems by adding one sentence to the Constitution in Article 7a. Let us then write in Article 7a that there is no more public debt and it is gone. Let us write in Article 7a that there are no car accidents and there are no more. Let us write in Article 7a that the sun shines every day and the sun shines every day. Let us write in Article 7a: 'I am looking at the PTB 'that every day is a holiday and it will be a holiday every day'. Let us write in Article 7a that there are no more unemployed and there will be no more unemployed. That legal technique is a highlight, is cutting edge technology. We really need to build on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u159	Mrs Almaci, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u160	Mr Vuye, I am listening very carefully. There are a number of things at the beginning that I understand perfectly from your ideological positioning, but I would like to respond very briefly to what you are doing now. I wrote down all the points. The last thing you say, of course, doesn't add up to the meaning of a special law. It serves to divide powers, not to include concrete climate objectives or other objectives, such as fantasizing about public debt or whatever, in the Constitution. With what you're telling us, you're actually making a joke of the debate, and I'm sorry about that. It is not my words, but it is Mr Sottiaux, with whom you started, who says: 'A special law serves to allocate powers, not to define specific climate objectives or a climate policy'. You refer to the Council of State and the fact that they have effectively indicated what should be done better. I am very pleased that we not only have academic climate experts who propose a law, but also that the Council of State does something that it does not often, especially constructively say how they would remedy. The different slopes are here on the table, this is one of them. You give a general criticism that applies to all special laws. That's actually saying we don't need special laws anymore. You are making a general criticism of the Constitution when it comes to the effects it can have on the courts, on the courts, on the position that judges can take if there is a vacuum. At the same time, you say that this vacuum exists and that I am right, that there is a climate issue and that there is a vacuum. In fact, this is a plea for the legislator to have a clearer framework. We do not believe that the Constitution should be brought to fruition. We do not believe that special laws should disappear. We believe very strongly in cooperation with academics and in taking the criticism of the Council of State into account. We effectively believe that the Senate should be abolished. It was Mr Nollet who said in a debate with Mrs Rutten, a VBO debate, I think, that this is not the essence. Here you come to something other than 7a, here you come to the debate on the climate law itself. I invite you, but you will have to clarify your position on the substance of this issue in order to amend it. We sent this invitation to all colleagues from the start of the climate law. Several amendments have been tabled to remedy the climate law itself. But there is a difference in the debate about a climate law and about 7a. We quite believe in the instrument of a Constitution. We are effective believers of the usefulness of Belgium. We know your position in that, all respect if it is different. I am actually very hopeful, because I do not think that the majority of the Belgian population, Flemish, federal and Brussels, shares your position on this issue. I am particularly hopeful because, regardless of what the vote is today, this debate will not go away. Mr Vuye, we know what the story is like with Mr Dedecker. Mr Dedecker's climate position is very close to climate change. That's not what most of our population is thinking right now. The fundamental question remains what you want. No special law, no amendment to the Constitution. You have no proposals for concrete measures. If you have it, we will support it, but you are only saying what is not possible without saying what is possible. Even after this debate, I am hopeful. Even if Open Vld and CD&V vote this out later, I'm hopeful. This debate is not going to go away. Businesses and citizens are busy. Cooperation will indeed have to be sought and we will continue to encourage it, in whatever form. The most ambitious is 7a, but I do not hear from you what your vision, what your goals are in terms of climate. That would contribute a great deal to this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs Almaci. You know that I have great respect for you, and I believe that this is mutual. However, I have heard a lot of you say 'we believe, my group believes'. With a whim, I want to say that faith is allowed, there is freedom of religion in this country. My ideology also once believed that it was enough to register matters in the Constitution or in special laws. For example, there was once Article 35, which Hugo Schiltz thought would effectively realize confederalism in Belgium. It has been in the Constitution since 1993 and it is still not there. I'm afraid you won't get anywhere with that technique you're using. I fear that you will be given a new Article 35 and that this 'it has not yet been realized' will haunt you for decades, as is the case with the Flemish Movement. Writing cases in a special law? There's a lot in the special law. Since 2001, the special law states that development cooperation has been transferred to the Länder. Parts of development cooperation would be transferred to the Länder. Zero has been transferred to today since 2001. In the Sixth State Reform, I dare hardly look at Mr Verherstraeten, the special law states that there would be a Brussels-Capital Community. She hasn't made it yet. That is also a good thing, I would add immediately. Sometimes that technique works positively. Here that was positive, because it has made a certain institution not there. I suppose that was even the intention at first. Think of Meise's plant garden, where it lasted from 2001 to December 2012. That is an historic moment because that was the first time that the N-VA showed that it could conclude Belgian agreements. A more Belgian agreement than the cooperation agreement on Meise's plant garden is nowhere to be found. Subscribing matters into the Constitution, in a special law, will not help you at all on the ground. The only thing I would like to consider is concrete measures with a calculated picture of how much it will cost. I also want this to be presented here and not to judges. There's broad support except when it comes to who's gonna pay. Then I want to know where the money's gonna come from. That is the only kind of measure I am prepared to consider. Although I'm of a different nature, I have real respect for your concern. However, if you are going to turn that concern into laws in this way, then you are going to get the same thing as what the Flemish Movement has achieved with Article 35, namely that there is a wonderful principle in the Constitution, but a principle that is most likely never to have any effect because it will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u162	It's actually your disappointment in your former party that you just pronounced.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u163	I can't respond, because with the noise here I didn't hear you. Tell me later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear. If there had not been the youth movement, we would not be debating here. The struggle of all these young people has forced the political world to hold the fundamental debate on the solutions for the future. The equations are fairly clear from a physical and biological point of view. We still have a carbon budget of more or less 420 gigatons of CO2. We produce 40 to 42 per year on a global scale. That means that we still have ten years ahead of us, as the IPCC tells us. It's not political, it's physical. This is the time left for us not to exceed 1.5°C and avoid a chilling effect, which will be accompanied by a release of methane from permafrost, an acceleration of the decomposition of the various litters and an acceleration of carbon production that returns to our atmosphere. We cannot change anything to physics and all these processes as such. If the 400 gigatons are exceeded, the chill effect will be there. The question before us is: what are the means and constraints we impose on ourselves to achieve this prowess of not exceeding this carbon budget? That is the question we need to decide tonight. And we heard that earlier. What's the problem with Article 7a? Those are the mandatory standards. There has been a debate between Anuna De Wever and Gwendolyn Rutten, where Gwendolyn Rutten said to Anuna that she does not want mandatory standards. Anuna asked what the problem was with mandatory standards. Well, that's the question, dear Open Vld'ers. What is your problem with mandatory standards? The IPCC tells us that between 55 and 65 per cent of production must be reduced by 2030 if the target of 0 per cent CO2 production is to be achieved by 2050. What problem do you have with the Liberals – Flemish in this case this evening – setting binding standards? That is exactly where the problem lies. We can still debate the resources, and I will come back to that later. The question is, however, what are the objections to mandatory application of the standards? I find it rather funny that I heard Mr Van Biesen of the Flemish Liberals, who is not present at the moment, proclaim that the climate law is an empty box. We heard here today that the climate law was an empty box, that it contained nothing. But that empty box, according to the Open Vld, will be responsible for all the companies leaving here, for taxes to rise, for the economy to break down. The Open Vld must know what she wants. Is it an empty box or not? It would be good to have an answer to that. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we will support this revision of the Constitution. Why? For the two reasons given by the right. I have already addressed the issue of binding standards, but come to the institutional question. I hear colleagues say that we are going to re-federalize, that there is a tendency to re-federalize. Of course, because that's the problem. What is the record of our cooperation between regions on climate issues? We went to Paris with four ministers. We were represented without problems! Countries with millions of people have a minister; we had four, but the four ministers did not agree on what they had to say. But there's even better! It is true, Madam Minister, that you have been alone in Poland. You were alone but had no agreement in your briefcase. Which makes you have been forced to put us in the rearguard of European countries. Because this famous cooperation policy gave you no mandate. It's not working. You confirm it to me. In Luxembourg, for the informal summit, no one went because there was no agreement possible. Burden sharing, which we've been talking about for years, doesn't work. This is not just because ministers do not agree – even if some do not even convene meetings – but because of competition between the regions. The competition you organize between the different regions in terms of competitiveness results in an attitude whereby one region does nothing for the climate, if the other does nothing. I have heard Mr Wollants, who is no longer here, apparently he is no longer interested, but he is often saying that as a small country we cannot do anything, but that is not how we should start. In this carbon budget, the responsibility of Europe and the United States of America is overwhelming. We are not going to point the finger at all the countries of the South as they begin their development! We have 120 years of fossil energy consumption and production. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both from an institutional point of view and from the point of view of binding goals, we must support these various measures. I heard "the government of judges!": That's a good one! They were creative in the design offices. The government of judges! The introduction of an amendment to the Constitution would mean that the next day the judges would intervene without interruption! Nevertheless, for the record, I must state that if the rights enshrined in the Constitution were to be payable to the judges, trials would take place throughout the day. For example, the right to housing: a few tens of thousands of people are ready to appear before the judge to have this right. But it doesn't work like that! The right to decent work: it is also in the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen! If all these matters were to pass before the judges, we would know. It is a caricature to express the fact that we do not want to change anything, that we want to keep immobilism, that it is so complex that we cannot change anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u165	Mr Hedebouw, I hear you talking about Article 23 of the Constitution. It was not intended to have a direct effect, but you do know that this article is being applied directly by some judges, or do you not know that? The example you give is therefore very bad, because it is just an example of a provision which is not intended to be applied by judges, but is applied by judges.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u166	It seems obvious to me that the right to housing in Belgium is not payable. You know that very well. We have to see the real housing poverty in Belgium, and the people who live in certain housing units. You live in your bubble. There's probably been a little case law. Someone was given housing somewhere because a judge ruled that someone could not be expelled from their house. But you know very well today that in terms of employment, housing and education, rights are not respected. Is the right to free education respected? What world do you live in? You're teaching college? Where is free education? If there is anything clear, it is that this change as such does not lead to a republic of judges. It's obvious. On the other hand, this raises another question. Do the binding limits we want to impose today, with -60 % in 2030, require structures or institutions to monitor compliance? I say yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u167	Mr Hedebouw, I am talking about Article 23 of the Constitution, and you are talking about people's housing. I didn't talk about that. So you shouldn't put me in the mouth that I didn't say. I merely said that the example you gave was probably the most wrong example you could give, because Article 23 was not intended to be applied directly and that it is actually applied directly by courts. You shouldn't bring up the actual housing of the people. Don't tell me I'm living in a bubble. You live in your ideological bubble. Because you can't even answer my question. You start turning and turning and you start talking about other things. But the example you have given is the worst example you could give.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u168	In my opinion, we're not going to agree! I'm going to approach fellow travellers to achieve these goals. We had an interesting debate about where the real responsibility today was to achieve our targets of -60 per cent. Let us be very clear! This climate law does not express itself on the means to achieve it! What came out of today's debate is wonderful. Several parties, which do not necessarily agree on the means, have been able to agree on their willingness to vote today in an urgent way a climate law with binding objectives! Whether it is the PTB, the PS, the sp.a, the DéFI, and even the MR who, under the pressure of young people, changed their minds...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u169	Mr. Hedebouw, I've been listening to you for several minutes. Your laius about climate law is very interesting. I'm glad you're interested, but it's incorrect to say that the MR has reconsidered his position. If you had been in committee the day I defended our position myself, you would know that's not the case! We have proposed two ways and by reading the reports, you will know exactly what has been said!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u170	As I understand it, the MR says today that he has never been against the revision of Article 7a. He never thought it was a bad idea! Be careful with your big gaps!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u171	I am not going to enter into a controversy that, at this hour, has no interest. We know the position of the PTB, which is more than a demagogic position, even in terms of climate. Mr Hedebouw, I would just like to strongly advise you to reread the minutes of the committees we have had and you will see that what you are claiming in the gallery is totally wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u172	That's an argument of weight! Clearly, the MR has not changed its mind and has been in favour of Article 7a since the beginning. On the other hand, he may not have expressed it well. This enthusiasm did not immediately reach us. It's better if he's here now. I was rather saying that we had agreed on a climate law. I will conclude and address my colleagues from CD&V. We shall vote in a few minutes. It's now or never. We can still get a majority. I heard Servais Verherstraeten. Listen a bit to your base, to all those social forces, all those militants of the ACV and all those young people who want to go for it and call for the vote in favour of Article 7a today. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u173	The FGTB's already on it. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen of the CD&V, that a change of opinion will take place again so that we can hear this urgency imposed by young people. We have to go fast today. There are no more than two to three plenary meetings left. We must move forward on this climate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully followed your work by reading the committee minutes and listening to all your speeches here. I would still like to remind you of two things. The first is that everyone agrees that there is an urgent need. Firstly, Europe has at one point proposed to raise its ambitions on energy efficiency and renewable energy with regard to the 2030 targets from 27% to 32.5% on energy efficiency and from 27% to 32% on renewable energy. The initial 2020-2030 targets were 27-27-40, because if these renewable and energy efficiency levels were reached, it was hoped that greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by at least 40%. The fact that we have revised these targets upwards means that we will, at European level, de facto move to much more by 2030, probably around 50%. An effort is therefore being made by a higher level, and we must accept it. We are members of the European Union. A European directive has been adopted. We have lost our face, certainly. This is not pleasant, but it will be necessary for us within two years of the vote on this directive, under penalty. In any case, there is a higher standard for us. On the limit, no matter what vehicle we choose. I do not take the Members of this House as novices. Everyone needs to know here that, in reality, we have to conquer special majorities every time. We will not be able to get them if we do not manage to be "reliant" between the different political groups, to ensure that everyone can keep his or her way of looking at things, trying to find the solution and avoid, between himself or herself, being lost. It's very important. I heard a speaker talk about the institutional locks and the old Belgian bastringue. Of course, but it's ours. It is the one we share, it is the one who speaks through the Constitution. And, on the limit, if we do not succeed today, we will succeed another day, with a means that we must choose together, in a converging way, avoiding wanting to dominate, wanting to cliver, wanting to polarize. Only in this way will we succeed. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u175	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal for revision will take place later. The vote on the proposed revision will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u176	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the members of the Management Committee of the Data Protection Authority. The next item is the election for the appointment of the members of the Steering Committee of the Data Protection Authority. Article 7 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority provides that the Data Protection Authority is to be composed of six bodies: - a committee of directors; - a general secretariat; - a first-line service, - a centre of knowledge, - an inspection service, - a dispute chamber. Article 7 of the Act of 3 December 2017 establishing the Data Protection Authority determines that the Data Protection Authority is composed of six bodies: - a steering committee; - a general secretariat; - a front-line service; - a knowledge centre; - an inspection service; - a contentious room. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint the members of the Management Committee, the members of the Knowledge Centre and the members of the Dispute Chamber. They shall be appointed for a renewable six-year period. The House of Representatives shall appoint the members of the Management Committee, the members of the Knowledge Centre and the members of the Litigation Chamber. They shall be appointed for a term of six years renewable once. The Management Committee shall be composed of the Director of the General Secretariat, the Director of the First Division, the Director of the Knowledge Centre, the Inspector General and the Chairman of the Dispute Chamber. The Management Committee shall consist of the Director of the General Secretariat, the Director of the Front Line Service, the Director of the Knowledge Centre, the Inspector General and the President of the Litigation Chamber. They shall perform their duties full-time. They perform their duties on a full-time basis. The Management Committee has as many Dutch-speaking members as French-speaking members, with the exception of the Chairman of the Dispute Chamber. The executive committee has as many French-speaking as Dutch-speaking members, the chairman of the contentious chamber except. The Director of the General Secretariat and the Director of the Knowledge Centre shall not belong to the same language role. The Director of the General Secretariat and the Director of the Knowledge Centre may not belong to the same linguistic role. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 22 March 2018. Nominations were announced during the plenary session on March 22, 2018. The Justice Committee heard all candidates on 30 January 2019 and 13 February 2019. Ms Laurette Onkelinx reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019. The Justice Commission heard from all candidates on January 30, 2019 and February 13, 2019. Laurette Onkelinx reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 20 March 2019. The Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019 decided, for organisational reasons, to spread the vote on the appointment of members of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Dispute Chamber. The vote on the appointment of the members of the knowledge centre and the dispute chamber will take place in the following weeks. The Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019 decided, for organisational reasons, to stagger the election relating to the appointment of the members of the Management Committee, the Knowledge Centre and the Chamber of Litigation. The election for the appointment of the members of the knowledge centre and the litigious chamber will take place in the coming weeks. The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (3676/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (3676/1) By e-mail of 27 March 2019, Mr Willem Debeuckelaere withdraws his candidacy for the mandate of President of the Dispute Chamber. By e-mail of 27 March 2019, Mr Willem Debeuckelaere withdrew his candidacy for the term of office of President of the House of Litigation. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u177	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u178	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: 1. Draft law amending the Law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security as regards the processing of personal data, No. 3639/1. 1. Bill amending the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security with regard to the processing of personal data, No.3639/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u179	Mr President, the request for urgent procedure is justified by the fact that the regulation already entered into force on 25 May 2018. It is therefore essential that the Act of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security be brought into line with this as soon as possible. In concrete terms, this means that the use and processing by administrations of data related to the regulation, control and inspection of the sensitive private security sector is currently falling within the generic scope of the GDPR, without explicit use of the limitations provided for in the GDPR. Therefore, in order to be able to exploit as soon as possible these possibilities of limitation in a clear and binding manner in the exercise of supervisory, inspection or regulatory tasks, the adaptation of Belgian rules on private and particular safety is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u180	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u181	2. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3652/1. 2. Bill amending the Act of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data, No. 3652/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u182	Mr President, the law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data entered into force on 5 September 2018. Given the large number of personal data processed under the PNR (Passenger Name Record) law, it is necessary to bring this law of 25 December 2016 into line with this law. The Passenger Information Unit, as described in the PNR Act, has been operational since January 2018. On the basis of operational experience and EU-level discussions on the functioning and cooperation of other passer-by information units in the EU, a number of gaps were identified in the law, which need to be resolved urgently for operational reasons. This is primarily about the international exchange of passenger data. At present, this exchange is hampered by the existence of protocol agreements in our legislation that go against the objective of the EU directive, which promotes cooperation between Member States. Secondly, it is an optimized processing of passenger data, so that even more can be done on the criminal networks themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u183	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u184	3. Draft law amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 as regards the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security, No. 3659/1. 3. Bill amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 with regard to the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security, No. 3659/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u185	Mr President, from a legal point of view, it is necessary to urgently amend Article 175 of the Civil Security Act, which confirms the status of the Knowledge Centre for Civil Security, hereinafter referred to as KCCE, as an administrative service with accounting autonomy. In fact, the KCCE (Knowledge Centre for Civil Security) is no longer a self-accounting administrative department since 1 January 2019. As part of the discussions for the 2019 budget, it had been decided to abolish the KCCE's independent accounting administrative service. This change in the status of the KCCE was confirmed by the Finance Act for the 2019 budget year of 21 December 2018. This Act no longer includes any allocation for the KCCE. The appropriations necessary for the payment of staff and for the operation of the KCCE have been transferred to the basic allocations relating to the personnel and operating appropriations of the Directorate-General for Civil Security. The budgetary and legal aspects must now coincide. Otherwise, there is a risk of blocking the operation of the KCCE with the result that, on the one hand, its staff cannot be paid and, on the other hand, it is prevented from continuing to function and from fulfilling its role with the various civil security actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u186	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u187	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Rita Bellens) amending the Law of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation establishing a code of conduct for the actors involved in development aid, No. 3688/1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) to make world trade rules fair and sustainable by abolishing the arbitration mechanisms in trade agreements and by introducing binding respect for social, environmental and human rights, No. 3692.1. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) on the negotiation of a binding treaty on enterprises and human rights matters in progress in the United Nations Human Rights Council, No. 3693/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u188	- the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Friart cs) amending the law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in these nuclear power stations, No. 3691/1. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers) introducing provisions on basic banking services for undertakings in book VII of the Economic Law Code, No. 3698/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u189	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on the establishment of an inclusive and sustainable robotic and digital agenda in Belgium, No. 3694/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u190	- the proposal for a declaration (Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Mrs Laurette Onkelinx) revising Article 7a of the Constitution to provide a constitutional basis for the adoption of a special law on environmental objectives, of Title II of the Constitution to insert a new article to ensure the enjoyment of rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities, and of Title III of the Constitution to insert a new article ensuring the referendum on citizens' initiative and the referendum on parliamentary initiative, No. 3696/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u191	- the legislative proposal (Mr Franky Demon, Mrs Veerle Heeren, Ms Katja Gabriels and Mr Sandrine De Crom) amending various provisions relating to police information management, No. 3697/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u192	- the bill (Mrs Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) containing various tax provisions 2019-I, No. 3699/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u193	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 March 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the draft law (Ms Rita Bellens) amending the Act of 19 March 2013 on Belgian Development Cooperation introducing a Code of Conduct applicable to international cooperation actors, No. 3688/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) to make world trade rules fair and sustainable by revoking the arbitration mechanisms of trade agreements and by introducing binding respect for human, social and environmental rights, No 3692/1. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt) on the negotiations of the binding Treaty on Enterprise and Human Rights under way at the United Nations Human Rights Council, No. 3693/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u194	- the bill (Mr. Benoît Friart et al.) amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in such nuclear power stations, No. 3691/1. - the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers) incorporating provisions on basic banking services for businesses in Book VII of the Code of Economic Law, No. 3698/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u195	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) to establish an inclusive and sustainable robonumeric agenda in Belgium, No 3694/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u196	- the proposal for a declaration (Mr Ahmed Laaouej and Ms Laurette Onkelinx) to revise Article 7bis of the Constitution with a view to inserting a constitutional basis for the adoption of a special law on environmental objectives, Title II of the Constitution with a view to inserting in it a new article guaranteeing the enjoyment of rights and freedoms for persons with disabilities and Title III of the Constitution with a view to inserting in it a new article enabling the citizens' initiative referendum and the parliamentary initiative referendum, No. 3696/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u197	- the draft law (Mr Franky Demon, Mrs Veerle Heeren, Katja Gabriëls and Mr Sandrine De Crom) amending various provisions concerning the management of police information, No 3697/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u198	- the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) with various tax provisions 2019-I, No 3699/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u199	I also propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Nele Lijnen) approving the cooperation agreement of 31 August 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the coordination of radio frequencies for radio broadcasting in the frequency band 87,5-108 MHz pursuant to Article 17 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications (No. 3702/1) to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u200	I propose that you also take into account the proposal for a law (Ms Nele Lijnen) concerning the consent to the cooperation agreement of 31 August 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the coordination of radio frequencies in broadcasting in the frequency band 87.5-108 MHz in accordance with Article 17 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, No 3702/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u201	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u202	Mr President, my group is asking for the urgency of text No 3692. Indeed, negotiations are currently under way at the United Nations with a view to reaching a binding treaty on multinationals and human rights. The negotiations will continue, while Belgium will be in elections first and then in government formation. The government should therefore be given a mandate in day-to-day affairs so that it can make every effort to ensure that these negotiations are successful and that Belgium is actively involved in them. Several parties and colleagues, as well as a number of associations, support this text. A committee on external relations may still be organised before the dissolution of the chambers. We therefore call for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u203	Mr President, during Question Time this afternoon I had the opportunity to point out the truly dramatic consequences of the changes to the language law in court cases, but there are sometimes converts. Repentance comes after sin. I see the N-VA's bill No. 3680 amending the Law of 15 June 1935. To him who comes to understanding and repents, the gates of heaven are always open. That is why my group would like to see the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3680 questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u204	Mr President, I call for the urgency of the proposal for a law amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and the management of irradiated fissile material in these nuclear power plants, No. 3691. The 2003 Act was passed with the aim of establishing provisions for the costs of shutting down nuclear reactors and unloading nuclear fuel, dismantling of nuclear facilities, remediation of sites and the resulting management of radioactive waste. It must be noted, however, that the 2003 Act introduced a system that does not provide for the continuity of financial obligations if a nuclear operator loses its quality. In order to monitor the constitution and management of the funds, the 2003 Act established the Nuclear Supplies Commission. In the run-up to 2022, with the closure of Doel 3, it appears that this nuclear provisioning system must be independently and effectively controlled. In particular, this is a stricter control of this commission over the use, management and allocation of funds that Synatom, the nuclear supply company, lends to nuclear operators and Synatom's compliance with the obligation to maintain sufficient liquidity. A refund guarantee should therefore be imposed quickly, provided that the provisions are lent to the operator of the nuclear power plants. The guarantee concept is found in other legal systems. I therefore hope that this text will be placed on the agenda of the Committee on the Economy scheduled for next Tuesday. Thank you for supporting this emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u205	This is document No. 3691.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u206	Mr President, our Committee on the Economy has examined many bills in this Parliament, as you can see from the statistics at the end of the session. The various groups had the opportunity to present many texts and even to change priorities over time. The text we are talking about here is actually a bill that has been announced to us for several months or years and is being tabled at the end of this session on March 29. It would be taken into consideration today and probably available on the site tomorrow. It is an extremely technical and complex text. If it has been difficult for the government to table it, I think it may be considered that it will not be easy for Parliament to deal with it in a serious way either. We have had discussions on nuclear issues. This is a sensitive theme. I do not think that this project can be dealt with in a few minutes in committee. From experience, I do not even think that a single sitting, however long, would be sufficient. Furthermore, we do not have the opinion of the Council of State on the whole text. If I may, I think that, unfortunately, today, we are in a rather difficult time frame. My conclusion is that when it's too late, it's too late!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u207	It is not the House's use to give replies. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we take a decision on the urgent request requested by Mrs Waterschoot on motion for a resolution No 3692/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u208	We are now voting on the request for urgent procedure, requested by Mr Vuye, for the legislative proposal No. 3680/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, as it is unclear, we are going to do an electronic count.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u210	50 members are in favour, 90 against. The urgency was therefore rejected. Now we are voting on the request for urgency, requested by Mr Friart, on Bill No. 3691/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u211	Votes 131 Votants Blank or invalid 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... White or invalid Valid 128 Valables Perfect majority 65 Absolute majority 1. Director of the General Secretariat 1. Director of the General Secretariat Mrs Charlotte Dereppe (F) received 0 votes. Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F) received 0 votes. Mr Hielke Hijmans (N) received 0 votes. M. Heelke Hijmans (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mr David Stevens (N) received 121 votes. Mr. David Stevens (N) obtained 121 votes. Mr Brendan Van Alsenoy (N) received seven votes. M. Brendan Van Alsenoy (N) a obtenu 7 voix. Mr David Stevens, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed Director of the General Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority. Mr. David Stevens, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared Director of the General Secretariat of the Data Protection Authority. 2. Director of the Knowledge Centre 2. Director of the Knowledge Centre Mr Dirk De Bot (N) received 0 votes. M. Dirk De Bot (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Charlotte Dereppe (F) received 0 votes. Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F) received 0 votes. Mr Hielke Hijmans (N) received 0 votes. M. Heelke Hijmans (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Alexandra Jaspar (F) received 128 votes. Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F) obtained 128 votes. Mrs Els Kindt (N) received 0 votes. Ms. Els Kindt (N) received 0 votes. Mr David Stevens (N) received 0 votes. Mr. David Stevens (N) obtained 0 votes. Mr Brendan Van Alsenoy (N) received 0 votes. M. Brendan Van Alsenoy (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Alexandra Jaspar, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed director of the data protection authority's knowledge centre. Ms. Alexandra Jaspar, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared Director of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority. 3. Director of the First Division 3. Director of front-line services Mr Dirk De Bot (N) received 0 votes. M. Dirk De Bot (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Charlotte Dereppe (F) received 128 votes. Ms. Charlotte Dereppe (F) obtained 128 votes. Mr David Stevens (N) received 0 votes. Mr. David Stevens (N) obtained 0 votes. Mr Peter Van den Eynde (N) received 0 votes. M. Peter Van den Eynde (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mrs Charlotte Dereppe, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed director of the first-line service of the Data Protection Authority. Ms. Charlotte Dereppe, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared Director of the Data Protection Authority's front-line service. 4. Inspector General 4. Inspector General Mrs Cédrine Morlière (F/N) received 32 votes. Ms. Cédrine Morlière (F/N) obtained 32 votes. Mr Peter Van den Eynde (N) received 96 votes. M. Peter Van den Eynde (N) a obtenu 96 voix. Mr Peter Van den Eynde, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed Inspector General of the Data Protection Authority. Mr. Peter Van den Eynde, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared Inspector General of the front-line service of the Data Protection Authority. 5. President of the Disputes Chamber 5. President of the Litigation Chamber Mr Dirk De Bot (N) received 0 votes. M. Dirk De Bot (N) a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Hielke Hijmans (N) received 128 votes. M. Heelke Hijmans (N) a obtenu 128 voix. Mrs Alexandra Jaspar (F) received 0 votes. Ms. Alexandra Jaspar (F) received 0 votes. Mr Hielke Hijmans, who has received the absolute majority, has been appointed Chairman of the Data Protection Authority's Dispute Chamber. Mr. Hielke Hijmans, having obtained an absolute majority, is hereby declared President of the Litigation Chamber of the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u212	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3504/4) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3504/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 105 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 37 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3526/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3526/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Vote on Amendment No 8 by Elio Di Rupo cs to Article 26. (3519/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Elio Di Rupo cs on article 26. (3519/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[22]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 26 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3519/7) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3519/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u216	Vote on Amendment No 50 by Catherine Fonck on article 3. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 50 by Catherine Fonck to Article 3. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 31 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck on article 16. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 47 by Catherine Fonck to Article 16. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 33 Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Mrs Schepmans voted against. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Catherine Fonck on article 19. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Catherine Fonck to Article 19. (3441/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u217	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 48 by Catherine Fonck on article 19. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 48 by Catherine Fonck to Article 19. (3441/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u218	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 55 by Catherine Fonck on article 27. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Catherine Fonck to Article 27. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 57 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 27 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 27 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Catherine Fonck on article 28. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Catherine Fonck to Article 28. (3441/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u219	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 28 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected in Article 28 and adopted. Vote on Amendment No 49 by Catherine Fonck on article 31. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 49 by Catherine Fonck to Article 31. (3441/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u220	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 46 by Karin Jiroflée on Article 31. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 46 by Karin Jiroflée to Article 31. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 48 Yes No. 81 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 31 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 31 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 52 by Catherine Fonck on article 33. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 52 by Catherine Fonck to Article 33. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 33 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 33 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 33 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Catherine Fonck on article 35. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Catherine Fonck to Article 35. (3441/10) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u221	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck on Article 38. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Catherine Fonck to Article 38. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 32 Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total The amendment was therefore rejected and Article 38 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 38 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 51 by Catherine Fonck on article 52. (3441/10) Vote on Amendment No 51 by Catherine Fonck to Rule 52. (3441/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes [[45]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 52 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 52 was adopted. Mr Olivier Henry voted in favour. Mr Kristof Calvo voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u222	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 79 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 62 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3441/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3441/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Non)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u223	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u224	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group will be voting against this resolution, not because we do not want to work towards a better refund of glasses, glasses and lenses, but because we want to point out that year after year, the Insurance Census-Optics Committee makes improvements on reimbursements, especially for beneficiaries of less than 18 years of age. We are also voting against because we have responsibility for the health budget in this period of current affairs. A reply from Minister De Croo shows that one point of the resolution, in particular the reduction of VAT from 21% to 6% for glasses and lenses, costs EUR 98.45 million. And I am not talking about the demand for better reimbursement by health insurance. We cannot therefore support the two proposals with a view to a responsible budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u225	We shall now proceed to the vote. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 58 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 70 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2076/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2076/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u226	Ms. Kattrin Jadin abstained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u227	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 58 Yes No. [[14]] No Abstentions 70 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2710/5) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2710/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u228	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 108 Yes No. 30 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3439/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3439/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 99 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3599/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3599/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u230	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3538/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3538/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u232	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u233	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal. Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u234	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3561/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3561/4) Mr. Frédéric Daerden voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 94 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 48 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3574/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3574/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3524/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3524/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u237	Vote on Amendment No 53 by Meryame Kitir cs on Article 4. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 53 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 4. (3464/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 26) Yes 48 Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 142 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 54 by Meryame Kitir cs on Article 4. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 54 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 4. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u238	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 55 by Meryame Kitir cs on article 4. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 55 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 4. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u239	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 56 by Meryame Kitir cs on Article 4. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 56 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 4. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u240	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 57 by Meryame Kitir cs on Article 5. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 57 by Meryame Kitir cs to Article 5. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u241	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No Article 58 of Meryame Kitir cs on Articles 6 to 11. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 58 by Meryame Kitir in Articles 6 to 11. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u242	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 59 by Meryame Kitir cs on Articles 6 to 11. (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 59 by Meryame Kitir in Articles 6 to 11. (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u243	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 6 to 11 are adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Articles 6 to 11 were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 60 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 13/1(n). (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 60 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 13/1(n). (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u244	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 61 from Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 13/2(n). (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 61 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 13/2(n). (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u245	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 62 of Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 13/3(n). (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 62 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 13/3(n). (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u246	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 63 of Meryame Kitir cs to insert an article 13/4(n). (3464/8) Vote on Amendment No 63 by Meryame Kitir cs to insert an Article 13/4(n). (3464/8) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u247	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u248	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 27) Yes 81 Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3464/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent [[.]] (3464/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u249	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 28) Yes 137 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3546/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3546/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u250	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 29) Yes 141 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez voted in favour. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (23/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (23/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u251	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 30) Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3559/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3559/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u252	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 35 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (3685/2) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (3685/2) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u253	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u254	Yes 63 Yes No. 58 No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 3485/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 3485/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u255	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u256	Yes 79 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 465/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 465/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u257	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u258	A man is never as tall as he is when he is on his knees to help a child. I regret to say so, but if we lend some credit to Pythagoras' wisdom, Belgium has never had such a small government. In Belgium today, far from helping some children, we put them behind fences. Belgium detains some children on the basis of their administrative status, sometimes even on the basis of the administrative status of their parents. For my group, this situation is unacceptable. We don't lock up a child, don't! One does not lock up a child for two weeks, one does not lock up a child for five days, one does not lock him up in good conditions, as if there were good conditions to deprive children of their liberty. A child, we don't lock him up at all. As you know, that is the whole point of the proposal that we have put forward at length in committee. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for four and a half years our country's migration policy has been held hostage by a party that was making its honey to distil the fear of the foreigner in the population, to scare with the foreigner. For this party, a foreign child is a foreigner before being a child. At the time of the fall of this government, many of us have hoped that something would change in this policy, but in fact this is not yet the case. Today, therefore, it is up to us to be the bearer of this change. This involves refusing this bill. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, to say in conscience that the place of a child is never in prison, that children are a symbol of freedom and innocence and that we cannot tolerate putting children behind fences. By supporting this text, we will restore our country's place in the world of great people, those of the pioneers of democratic and human values, but above all the place of those for whom children are precious beings that we have first and foremost to protect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u259	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u260	Yes 83 Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 140 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 3045/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 3045/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u261	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 35) Yes [[140]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3554/16) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3554/16) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u262	I would remind you that, in accordance with article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for a revision of the Constitution must be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, provided that two-thirds of the members are present. I would remind you that, in accordance with Article 195 of the Constitution, a proposal for revision of the Constitution may be adopted provided that two-thirds of its members are present and a two-thirds majority of its votes adopt it. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not had any real climate debates. [[Laughs]] Laugh gentlemen, I'm laughing too! Because for you the debate is going in one direction and having only one position. That is the debate for you! We have heard only one point of view: that of the IPCC. Very high-level scientists defend the contrary thesis as the professor of ULB Samuel Furfari, the new president of the European Society of Engineers, or even a Nobel Prize in physics, Professor Carlo Rubbia, who was heard by the Climate Committee of the Italian Parliament. But here we didn't have to audition anyone who didn't agree with you. Why did we only hear the followers of one thought? Tell me why? I am climatosceptic and every day that passes comforts me in this position. I am concerned about the refusal of an adversarial debate on such an important subject. What do we want to get drunk? Why create anxiety in a population by announcing apocalypse? Explain to me! Lastly, if the Constitution were to be reviewed, there were many other more valid grounds, such as the re-federalization of certain matters in order to make the State more effective. So let's stop dogmatism! Let's stop the confusion between climate and environment! The climate deserves more than these constitutional difficulties. For these reasons, I will vote against the revision of Article 7bis of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u264	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 36) Yes 76 Yes No. 66 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The quorum of those present has been reached. The two-thirds majority has not been achieved. Consequently, the proposal to revise Article 7a of the Constitution has been rejected. The quorum of the presences shall be reached. A two-thirds majority is not reached. Accordingly, the proposal to revise Article 7a of the Constitution is rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-28-54-plenair-ip278x.u265	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 4 April 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, April 4, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 April 2019 at 09.30 a.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, April 4, 2019 at 9:30 a.m.
