ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u1	The number of colleagues willing to ask questions has been reduced somewhat. Questions No 28701 by Mr Bert Wollants and No 28916 by Mr Michel de Lamotte were withdrawn, since they were able to put them at the time of the topical questions in the plenary session last Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ENGIE Electrabel recently announced its intention to apply for an urban planning permit with a view to building three additional buildings at the Tihange nuclear power plant site. The latter will be used for the storage of spent fuel generated at the site, thus responding to the need for new storage spaces. Radioactive waste is currently stored in a pool, supposed to be temporary, which is expected to be filled by 2022. For this reason, ENGIE proposes the construction of a new storage site which this time will no longer take the form of a swimming pool, but of a safe dry container. Minister, what is your long-term strategy for nuclear waste management? How and where do you intend to permanently store them? What specific safety measures will ENGIE Electrabel be required to apply to the new dry storage site (e.g. kerosene cutters, reinforced concrete protective walls, site access limits, roof and wall size, etc.).( )? What do you intend to put in place to avoid the abandonment of the site after the closure and dismantling of the plant in 2025, so that it does not become a nuclear cemetery left to the Hutois? How to explain the oversized dry storage building? Can you assure us that the Tihange site will not receive nuclear waste from facilities other than Tihange? How can we guarantee any risk associated with earthquakes, terrorist attacks or aircraft crashes? What is the state of the leak in the Tihange 1 cooling pool? Do you have any information on the degree of concrete degradation and the condition of the pool frame? Given that it is now clear that other economic activities will not be able to develop on the site throughout this period and the risk associated with the radioactivity of stored materials, it would be logical for ENGIE to continue to pay a specific tax to the municipalities concerned. What compensation is currently provided for? Is this scenario being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u3	Mr President, Madam Member, I see that you are taking back the torch of your co-chair on all these issues, which fall under the responsibility of both the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCCA), which is not within my competence, and the ONDRAF, which is, on the other hand, in my common competence with those of Mr Kris Peeters. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the spent fuel stored at Doel and Tihange sites has so far not been radioactive waste. Synatom is responsible for the management of spent fuel (reprocessing or non-retirement). I would also like to point out that the determination of a definitive solution is the responsibility, as I said at the moment, of the national body for radioactive waste and enriched fissile material (ONDRAF), and not of Synatom. I would add that before they are used, the storage facility and the containers will have to be authorized by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. It is imperative that nuclear safety and security requirements be met. This must be demonstrated by the operator in his application for authorisation. As many elements of your question fall within the competence of the AFCN, I will be able to answer you only briefly. Mr Peeters and I have instructed ONDRAF to continue its work with a view to preparing – as I have already told your co-chairman on many occasions – a national policy on geological storage for the management of medium- and high-level radioactive waste and long-lived radioactive waste. We also commissioned him to conduct an environmental impact study and a public consultation on this national policy proposal from ONDRAF, for which he is responsible. Electrabel has applied for a construction permit for a new so-called dry storage facility for intermediate storage of spent fuel, as has already been the case in Doel for several decades. In order to ensure nuclear safety, two main types of barriers to the protection of fuel against external hazards are put in place. The first and the main are containers in which the fuel assemblies are stored. These containers are resistant to external hazards such as the fall of an aircraft, an explosion, an earthquake or a fire. Their use is double. They can be used both for storage and for transport inside and outside the site. The type of container retained is a metal structure that allows passive removal of residual heat. The body of the packaging is closed by a bolted lid guaranteeing containment. It also constitutes a protection barrier against neutron and gamma radiation. A protective cover ensures the mechanical protection of the packaging. The second type consists of a building which is the main building constructed of reinforced concrete. It provides additional radiological protection against ionizing radiation and is resistant to extreme natural phenomena. Electrabel chose the nominal capacity of the building to take into account a certain margin necessary to cover uncertainties of a technical nature, but still under the extremely vigilant eye of the AFCN. It also confirmed to me that a possible transfer of spent nuclear fuel from Doel was not envisaged. It is also important to note that the new facility will be located on the current site of the Tihange power plant, whose access is obviously very limited. As you know, we don't get into a power plant the way we want it. Its protection will be integrated into the site's protection measures, as is the case with existing nuclear facilities. At the end of the decommissioning of the plants, all radioactive waste resulting from the decommissioning operations will be transferred to ONDRAF, which will manage it in the long term, in accordance with its policy. As long as the site is not completely empty, the operator must continue – as provided by law – to assume the operational management of the site while guaranteeing safety and security. With regard to the condition of the Tihange 1 cooling pool, the leak of about two litres a day is under control. The leak water is captured in an isolated reservoir, designed to collect such leaks and under the strict and daily control of the AFCN. The situation does not pose a nuclear safety problem. As far as the question of the specific tax is concerned, I have already had the opportunity to answer Mr Nollet 60 times on this subject! It is not my responsibility but that of the municipalities concerned, as you can imagine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have addressed a question to your government colleague on the issue of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u5	Madam Secretary, energy storage capacity remains one of the pitfalls in the energy transition. Batteries remain relatively expensive and systematically lose part of their stored energy. That's why hydrogen is being looked at as an energy carrier. Renewable energy hydrogen has been a promise on the energy market for years, but it has not yet come to a real breakthrough. The research project at KU Leuven led by Johan Martens has now succeeded in developing a prototype solar panel that can produce hydrogen gas using sun and air. This is an important step towards a solution for our energy storage. In Belgium and Flanders hydrogen technology has been invested for some time, for example by Colruyt. There are also cross-border projects with the Netherlands and the Benelux, for example. Belgium is also a member of the Hydrogen Implementation Agreement within the International Energy Agency (IEA). Cooperation between the various authorities is very important in view of the range of powers that have been distributed. Last year, you set up an ENOVER Working Party on Hydrogen and Energy Storage to promote coordination between the different levels and develop a Belgian hydrogen vision. Madam Secretary, how does the federal government support hydrogen research? Is additional support provided? How does cooperation between the different levels proceed? Is there already a common policy vision on hydrogen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u6	Mr Wilrycx, it is recognised at all levels that hydrogen will play an important role as an energy carrier in the future. Hydrogen technologies can eventually play an increasing role in the transition and decarbonisation of the Belgian energy and transport system, as well as in our industry. Hydrogen can also contribute to achieving our energy and climate objectives and to improving our air quality. Currently hydrogen is already used as a raw material for various processes and in industry. However, in order to achieve the transition to a low carbon economy, emissions-free hydrogen may have an even greater role to play in the coming years, with possible applications in several vital sectors for the Belgian economy, such as transport, energy production and the storage industry. The hydrogen dossier is also gaining importance at European level. A political statement was signed at the Energy Council on 18 September 2018 by a hundred companies and twenty-six EU Member States, including Belgium. In Belgium, both the Regions and the federal level have powers in the field of hydrogen. Structured consultation and exchange of information between the entities concerned are necessary. Therefore, an ENOVER Working Group on Hydrogen and Energy Storage was set up in 2018, on the proposal of the General Energy Directorate of the FPS Economy, in which the relevant federal and regional departments are represented. The ENOVER Working Group on Hydrogen will continue to support the development of hydrogen, including through, firstly, the coordination of Belgian policy and a position determination on hydrogen, taking into account the distributed powers within Belgium; secondly, the follow-up of developments regarding hydrogen within the four entities and the exchange of information and best practices; thirdly, by monitoring foreign developments and identifying cooperation possibilities. Cooperation between the Regions and the federal level is progressing constructively. The working group has met several times since June 2018. An interfederal vision of hydrogen is currently under way. In line with the agreements and the distribution of the relevant competences between the Regions and the federal level, a specific vision paper will examine in greater depth a common vision on hydrogen. There are some obvious opportunities for Belgium, but some comments should also be made. Subsequently, the note will also set out some concrete issues concerning cooperation between the entities concerned in Belgium, which should facilitate a coherent national policy on hydrogen. The vision paper will also focus on the necessary cooperation at Benelux level, at European and international level. In a possible next step, following the completion of additional study work and the consultation of stakeholders concerned, the Interfederal Vision Paper could possibly be complemented by an action plan containing concrete hydrogen policy proposals and objectives. Finally, the Energy Transition Fund already supports a number of concrete hydrogen projects, such as the wind project Eoly of Fluxys and Colruyt. This project aims to produce green hydrogen, using the electricity from offshore windmills, and then inject the hydrogen into the natural gas network. Within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, the General Directorate for Energy organises a new call for proposals each year. The budget for 2019 is 30 million euros. In the coming years, support for research, development and demonstration of hydrogen-related technologies will have a crucial role to play. It is important to identify and use all possible financial support mechanisms, both at national, regional and European level. The European Union will also play an important role in this support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I look forward to the forthcoming interfederal vision paper. I can only welcome your support for hydrogen projects within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u8	Mr President, if I may, there must of course be project offerers. It is therefore necessary to encourage companies in civil society to propose innovative projects within the framework of this fund. Indeed, we note - as you will see later - that many university institutions, which are better prepared to hand over projects and do not have venture capital, are asking for a grant that necessarily amounts to almost 100%. While it is also interesting to do academic research, we would like to have more companies submitting projects under these funds. So I'm calling.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u9	Mr President, Minister, it is good that the research institutions are encouraged to seek the necessary resources. For example, the KUL research project is a good example of how hydrogen can play an important role in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u10	That's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u11	Mr Wilrycx, you are the one who completes the series of this Parliament. I have no news from some colleagues who had issues on the agenda. I haven't heard from Mr. Calvo or Mr. Van Hees. I am informed that Question No. 29280 by Mr. Van Hees is transformed into a written question. Question No 29180 by Mrs Dierick is transformed into a written question, as is question No 29266 by Mrs Lalieux. The list of questions for this sitting and the legislature is now closed. If we count them, you've done a lot over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u12	Mr President, on the occasion of this last committee, although there are not many of us, I would like to thank not only the Members present, but also those who were members of the committee, and even those who were not, but who are present today to attend our last exchanges of this Committee on Economy, which has had a great deal of intense debate during this parliamentary term. I would also like to thank you for your work, as well as your secretaries, the translators, the collaborators of parliamentarians, those of parliamentarians who are not present and the latter themselves, there is no reason. I thank them for all the very intense but also fruitful work that we have been able to do in this committee during this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1074x.u13	Thank you, Madam Minister. We still have a bill to deal with; I'll make that kind of statement all in the end, when we're really done. Anyway, thank you very much for your cooperation. At this point, I am suspending our work until 1 p.m. I hope that the groups that have asked to add a point will ensure that there is a quorum. Indeed, the minister has come back specifically for this. Thank you.
