ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u1	Minister, the Belgian company Global Sea Mineral Resources is active in deep sea mining. Deep sea mining is seen by the European Commission as a supporting sector in its Blue Growth Strategy. At the same time, in 2018, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for a moratorium on deep sea mining activities. Deep sea mining is a threat to the biodiversity of the deep sea bottom, which man himself hardly knows. We know that the Belgian government guarantees the activities of Belgian companies doing deep sea mining in international waters. What guarantees does the Belgian State provide for these companies under the agreements concluded with the International Seabed Authority? What is the role of the Belgian government in the International Seabed Authority? What actions do you take to protect the deep sea and deep sea floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u2	Indeed, it is true that in 2013 the Belgian State took on the sponsorship of a subsidiary company of DEME, GSR, to consider how the investigation into the rights applicable to certain raw materials can be carried out in a particular zone. This effectively entails a number of responsibilities for the Belgian State, especially the strict supervision of the activities carried out by that subsidiary. We are, of course, not liable in this respect, but we are also responsible for the monitoring that is taking place on it. Our strategy is to ensure that the whole discussion on exploration and deep sea mining can be more generally conducted within a strictly regulated framework. There are no rules about that today. We have always advocated that activities should take place within an internationally regulated framework. That is why we are also very actively participating in both the Assembly and the Council of the International Seabed Authority. There, different aspects of the story are covered. There have already been several submissions around environmental impact and economic potential. For us, an independent evaluation and environmental impact assessment and the composition of a Legal and Technical Commission are also important. In all these areas, Belgium has the expertise and the view that we have made available. We have already organised a number of workshops to help formulate positions on certain aspects. We are working very closely with certain partner countries, such as Germany, to see how we can gain support for our positions on a highly developed and regulated international framework. Its national coordination is carried out at the level of the FPS Economy. Of course, international regulation is important. We can either do nothing, and then all kinds of things happen without our control, or we can see how we can define a number of things internationally and nationally. At national level, too, we are trying to set in motion a number of things, such as respect for national and international environmental principles. Rules are of course essential, but also the review of the law on the marine environment of 1999, for example, is part of and is reflected in this discussion. The position we are taking at the moment is that we have taken up the sponsorship and that there are responsibilities there. We are actively and proactive in the international organisations to create a very clear and strictly defined framework so that exploration can take place within that internationally developed framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u3	Thank you very much for your comprehensive reply, Minister. I'll follow up on the file anyhow. I hope that you will take further steps to protect biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kurt Ravyts and Question No 55000859C 55000587C by Mrs Eliane Tillieux have expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u5	I suggest that you give some explanation now. There are other questions, but not about this issue. So here's your debriefing on New York. Then we can debate this and then we will move on to the other oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u6	Over the past two or three years, we have tried to build a strategy from Belgium and from a North Sea perspective, which may sound strange for the small part of the sea that we have, and for everything that has to do with climate and oceans at international level, and to initiate a number of things. We know that there is a very strong link between climate change and the oceans, through, among other things, the capture of CO2, but also through everything that has to do with the rise in sea level. We have tried to become active in different fora in recent years. Together with other countries, we have also tried to formulate a number of climate ambitions from that ocean strategy. The concern for the oceans and the care for the climate go hand in hand according to us. In recent years, this strategy has proved a bit successful. Firstly, we have ensured that this has become an item on the agenda in international fora. Five years ago, that was not discussed. Meanwhile, the new COP, which will take place in Chile in December, will focus on oceans and seas. It'll be a Blue COP. This has also been our credit, because we have insisted on this in recent years. In New York we organized two events, one of which is a showcase of what Belgium is doing around oceans, seas, climate and ports. On the other hand, thanks to our good contacts, we have been able to organise a breakfast event on which the IPCC report on climate, oceans and cryosphere was explained and presented by a number of IPCC scientists, in the presence, for example, of the President of Chile, the President of Seychelles and the Crown Prince of Norway. Several people here acknowledged that we played a very important role in putting the link between the climate and the oceans on the agenda. What we tried to do in New York is a result of a number of things that we have already done. I shall mention some of them. At the level of the International Maritime Organization (IMO), we have formed a High Ambition Coalition with other countries in order to make binding agreements on the reduction of CO2 and greenhouse gases in shipping. That never happened before. It's the first time such an agreement has been made. Belgium is responsible for this. I also refer to the Brussels Declaration. We organised an event in Brussels where many countries were present. I have not seen the latest state of affairs, but in the meantime some 100 countries and organisations have signed up to it. This declaration calls for greater ambition in terms of oceans and climate, not only in terms of research, but also in terms of views on it. That was the essence of this Brussels Declaration. This has also enabled us to do a number of things in New York. We are invited to the World Economic Forum, to explain what we are doing, with our ports, our shipping and our policies. We have organised an event ourselves to better highlight those aspects of Belgian policy in an international context. We have worked with a number of countries in this respect. There were also NGOs present. We have been able to speak with them. So we also involve stakeholders, in the broad sense. That too is very important for us. We have managed, for example, to make clear agreements with the private players in the shipping industry. The shipowners in Belgium are very ambitious. We have also been able to give that ambition to the international community. This, for example, allowed the agreement to be concluded at IMO level. What we are doing in the field of shipping is very clear. There are two competitive models. On the one hand, there is a model where there is a lot of investment in new ships. As a result, there is a lot of investment and a high CAPEX, but the operationality of the ships is of course much less expensive, a low OPEX, so. Previously, another model was used using old ships with a high OPEX, but a low CAPEX. Those two models have been in competition with each other for a long time. The Belgians have been able to demonstrate that the first model, investing in new ships and new technology, is much more profitable in the long term. As a result, they are also able to take the path to a zero emission in shipping. Belgium is the leader of this. CMB has a hydrogen vehicle and we invest in new innovations around screws, the structure of boats and so on. Alternative fuels are also, of course, considered in this context. This is also a cooperation between shipping and ports, because these fuels must of course also be available in ports. So that's what we're rolling out together with the ports. In Antwerp, for example, there is now a future as a multi-fuel port. All these different alternative fuels, which result in fewer CO2 and fewer greenhouse gases being emitted, will be available in the port of Antwerp. Such initiatives, for example, have made Jacques Vandermeiren one of the speakers from the private sector at the opening of the Climate Conference in New York to explain what they are doing. We strengthen each other in this and in this way we try to strengthen our leadership position. Of course, we also work very much together in international contexts, for example with the Small Island States, small island states that are very badly affected by global warming, where climate warming and the rise in sea level are already palpable today. We're doing a piece of technology transfer and we're also trying to help. For their part, there will be support for certain initiatives that we want to take at that international level. These are a number of things that we discussed and could get done in New York. I think we have actually been able to agree on concrete measures. The private sector participates, the stakeholders and the NGOs participate. Greta Thunberg was also present at the event, which proves that there is also international support for what we are doing. I think we should continue along this path. As a closing point, I would like to say that Sophie, sitting next to me, has been crucial for us to do so. It is very active in international fora in order to develop, so to speak, for us to maintain contacts, to take those views, to formulate them. That has been essential for us to be able to do this in New York. It really is the culmination of two to three years of hard work to set a clear line as Belgium and to take a clear lead in the field of seas, oceans and climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u7	I thank you and your staff for the work that has been done and for the interesting debates in New York. That was a very nice presentation. The previous picture reminded me of a presidential campaign with the right or the wrong colors, according to your conviction. Colleagues, are there any questions to the Minister about this activity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u8	Not so much about the activity itself, Mr President. I believe that there are certainly good elements to show that Europe and Belgium are taking a number of steps forward. In the past, there has been a lot of talk about further tightening standards and controls. Minister, you know that we work with SECA zones to reduce sulphur. The question is how do we proceed with this? Will we extend it further in the future? These substances also have effects on our environment and the like. Another aspect is that you announced at some point that you were planning to roll out an emission measurement grid to track some of those issues. We know that there are a lot of ships in our ports, and that is absolutely a good thing. We also know that this involves a very diversified fleet of ships. Sometimes there are still complaints that these ships do not always comply with the rules. If there's anything you can tell us about that, that's certainly a good thing. A number of years ago, we strengthened our standards in the field of the processing of old shipwrecks. We have had a number of problems with this in the past. Think about the Silver Ray and all that stuff. It was mostly about the wrecking of that ship. At the same time, the question arises as to how we can get a better grip on the fact that the ships we replace here will not continue to do the same elsewhere for 30 years without an environmental benefit. Perhaps they will replace even older ships, I agree, but we also need to see how we can get a better grip on them. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u9	Mr President, Minister, can you give concrete examples of the technology transfer with the Small Island States? What can I imagine? I understand it's a successful look back. What's the outlook? How can we proceed? What else is on the agenda? What are the issues for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u10	Minister, in May you officially expressed the Belgian support for the 30-30 initiative, i.e. the call for action to protect 30% of the oceans by 2030. It is very easy to refer to the fact that 35% of the Belgian North Sea is already protected. What additional commitments will you include? Then I have a question about deep-sea mining. Environmental organisations have called for a moratorium on deep-sea mining. A moratorium is also in line with the Brussels Declaration and ensures the urgent protection of deep sea biodiversity. Do you support such a moratorium on deep-sea mining?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u11	Minister, what exactly is meant by Blue Leader? How did we achieve Blue Leader status? How can we ensure that countries such as Saudi Arabia, Brazil and the United States join our ambitions? Initially, it was intended to go to 100 %, but this was reduced to 50 %. Then I have a question that fits in with Mrs van der Straeten's. What are the next steps in the multilateral consultations? How will 2020 be the year in which climate action and oceans really go hand in hand, as you claimed in New York?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic026x.u12	The standardisation and monitoring of this remains essential. We've got SECA zones, we've got NECA zones coming up. In this respect, things are also going on at European level. It makes sense to have international agreements on this. We'll apply these as soon as possible. We also have an extensive network of control options. There's the sniffer plane that's capable of flying through plumes. We have invested much more in devices that allow rapid controls to be carried out on the quay itself. Within 15 minutes, we'll have a result of this. It also allows us to control more. If ships pass by us but do not dock in a Belgian port, the ports of the other countries are warned. Then checks can be carried out. It's being followed. Its data shall be exchanged. The whole process is going pretty well. It is also intended to roll out an emission measurement network. For the time being, we're studying how best to do that. With the second zone added, there is a corridor towards England. That's how we can make that investment. Old shipwrecks remain a problem for two reasons. Firstly, there is the European legislation to be applied, but the European Commission has hesitated for a very long time and waited for certification of locations where ships can be dismantled. That is a problem because our Belgian fleet has large vessels. For small ships this is not such a problem, there are sufficient facilities for that. For large ships, it's a problem. So we have long urged the European Commission to give priority in their certification schemes to a number of locations in Europe or near them, where the largest ships can be dismantled. In this way there would be clarity and we could avoid them being sold under a different flag and thus being dismantled somewhere else, for example in Indonesia. This remains a focus for us and we continue to press the European Commission to do so. Secondly, it is correct that such ships remain in action afterwards. However, I would like to stress that the old model of buying up and letting go of old ships is gradually extinct because its costs in terms of fuel prices and efficiency no longer outweigh investment in new ships. The model of investing in a high CAPEX costs money but earns back later through lower fuel spending and more efficient sailing. That model is winning. The old model in which old ships are bought and remain in service for another 20 to 30 years is getting out. It is seen, for example, that the Greek shipowners, who had that model and are now switching with them. This partly proves that the model chosen by Belgium ten to fifteen years ago is being followed in other countries because the economic model behind it is much more profitable and much better. The economy always wins, just like common sense. What's next? First there is a relatively large conference in Norway at the end of November, on which we have also been invited to share our vision. In Chile there is the COP at the beginning of December. That's an important moment. It will be a summit dedicated to the link between climate and oceans. Once again, I believe that we should be present and defend our vision very strongly. That is also linked to the leadership we have shown. We've been trying to get oceans and climate together for two years, and that's starting to work. We were one of the first countries to do so and are now seen together with a number of countries as a Blue Leader. This will ensure that we can be credible in advocating, for example, the 30/30 strategy. There will be a revision of the Convention on Biodiversity and of a number of other international conventions. These are the moments when Belgium can turn its leadership into action and our plea for 30 percent of ocean protection by 2030 can be enforced in international treaties. This will require some massaging and discussions with countries such as China, the United States and Saudi Arabia. Those are not the countries that want to go the farthest, on the contrary, but they see that we are able to get them with us. Otherwise, for example, we would never have been able to conclude an agreement in the International Maritime Organization (IMO) to include the 50% reduction in CO2 within the criteria. When we look at the technique behind it, we go to almost 80 to 85 %. The shipping is still on a path to zero emission. Something that was almost unspeakable ten years ago is now becoming a reality. This is something that Belgium has put its shoulders on and which we have some of the success with. That is the outlook: looking at hard international treaties and making them enforceable, to ensure that the criteria are reflected in the international treaties. I am not in favour of a moratorium. What will then happen is that a paper moratorium will be agreed internationally, where countries such as Russia and others will simply wipe their feet. I would prefer to have a very strong framework of environmental provisions, with strict rules and supervision, to ensure that everyone is in line and also that, if deep sea mining is done, it is done in as environmentally friendly and soft a way as possible. This is something in which Belgium, once again, plays a leading role. We try to do deep sea mining in such a way that we have minimal interference and interaction with the seabed, biodiversity and so on, while other countries use techniques that de facto almost destroy the soil. Rather the Belgian approach, with a clearly regulated framework, with innovation and minimal invasion. If one does nothing, one gets the big boys who will do anything. This is not a good thing for biodiversity. As far as the tech transfer is concerned, we're partly at mitigation. In part, we are also trying to help these countries with the demands they make. They already feel the impact of climate change today. We are trying to help them to put a number of points on the international agenda, both legally and technically. That way we try to support them and their demands. I can provide a list of the partnerships we have with several of those countries. Sometimes it's about ports, too. That's not just about Small Island States, that's wider. There are a number of not insignificant partnerships within that framework. I can give it to you.
