ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u1	Mr.President, Minister, to prevent wage increases, Minister Peeters amended the 1996 Employment Promotion and Preventive Protection of Competitiveness Act in 2017. This amendment to the law has locked the social partners in a real straitjacket, preventing them from discussing and making it impossible to conclude an interprofessional agreement (IPA) for 2019 and 2020. Moreover, as a result of strong tensions, it seriously undermines social peace. We see this in the caretakers and service titles sectors. Even today, this profound obstacle to the freedom to negotiate does not pass. Minister Peeters has locked the principle of negotiation not only at the interprofessional level, but also within sectors and companies, which can no longer take their realities into account, as the norm has been made imperative and has been accompanied by drastic sanctions. Workers do not understand that reductions in social contributions and other wage subsidies are used to increase dividends, while their wages are frozen. As a result, they are asking us to review the law to restore freedoms to wage consultation. In our view, the margin must again become indicative. That is why we have tabled a proposal to that effect. Minister, I would like more details on how your services will apply the amended legislation. How will you monitor compliance with the standard? By what means? Is it only feasible for your services? Do you not think that it would be wiser to make this standard again indicative, especially for sectors and businesses, in order to restore freedom to the social partners and to take account of the realities on the ground? I just want to make it clear that social dialogue is a very important element of stability for the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u2	Mr President, Mr Goblet, the monitoring and sanctions mechanism of the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness was adapted and strengthened by the Act of 19 March 2017 amending the aforementioned Act. The monitoring of compliance with the wage standard at the enterprise level shall be ensured by the mechanism described in Article 9, Chapter I, paragraphs 2 and 4 to 7. Monitoring can be carried out by the Directorate-General for Monitoring Social Laws of the Employment, Labour and Social Coordination (ETCS) FPS. If a report is drawn up, an administrative monetary fine may be imposed. This pecuniary fine is multiplied in this case by the number of workers concerned, with a maximum of 100 workers. With respect to sectoral collective labour agreements (CWCs), the SPF ETCS continues to work with a certification from the parties that have concluded the sectoral CLC in which they certify that the wage standard is being met. This certification is necessary in order for the CTC in question to be made mandatory. Furthermore, it should be noted that the monitoring of compliance with the law of 26 July 1996 by a company or an employer can only take place in practice once the particular bargaining period, for example the 2019-2020 period, has passed, unless the company has already clearly exceeded the wage standard. During this type of control, the wage cost of the company must be compared at the end of the previous trading period, e.g. 2017-2018, and the wage cost of the company at the end of the next trading period, e.g. 2019-2020. At present, it is still too early to provide an overview of the number of inspection interventions. During this period, sectoral negotiations and enterprise-level negotiations took longer than usual. Towards the end of 2020, we will have a better view of the situation in this regard. As regards the wage standard itself, the procedure provided for by the Act of 26 July 1996 establishes a mechanism in which the social partners have the freedom of negotiation to set the wage standard first on the basis of the technical report of the Central Economic Council (CEC). The 1996 law strikes a balance between free negotiations and the control of wage costs in our country with a view to the competitiveness of our enterprises vis-à-vis neighbouring countries and the rest of Europe. Free wage negotiations are still possible within the limits of the wage margin proposed by the EAC, in which the social partners also sit. In addition to the wage standard, baraemic increases and indexations are always guaranteed. Moreover, in addition to the wage standard, employers still have other ways to reward their workers financially. Consider, for example, the beneficiary premium or the innovation premium. In this context, we draw attention to our shift tax in the Michel government, which has also created additional net purchasing power, particularly for low-income people. The increase in gross and net wages through the wage margin, indexation, baraemic increases and tax shift provide considerable guarantees for the purchasing power of workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you. I think, however, that you are not really answering my question. I asked you whether it was wise to maintain a peremptory margin, especially when the margin is 1.1%, as is the case in this agreement, while we do not take into account a whole range of elements, including reductions in burdens on businesses. What is worrying, when we lock ourselves in such a narrow margin that even the social partners are committed to respecting, is that if other incentives are given to workers, they are diverted to the detriment of the financing of social security. As I indicated to you, we have tabled a bill to review the 1996 Act and return to the previous principle. When an interprofessional agreement was reached, the freedom to negotiate was indicative at the sector and enterprise level. I think this greatly favoured the social climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u4	Minister, in Belgium, trade union conviction is explicitly included among the prohibited grounds of discrimination in the Act of 10 May 2007. However, on the national strike day of February 13, 2019, we had to see the multiplication of cases where employers have granted different benefits to non-gregarians. Among the most striking examples are the payment of a gross premium for non-gravists who wished to enter a team system on the day of the strike, so that they can keep a minimum production for 24 hours, with a day of compensation and the payment of overtime of up to 1,500 euros gross per non-gravist, and the payment of 150 % of wages for hours worked during the day of strike. Such harmful practices had already had to be found in November and December 2014. In such cases, it is possible either to file a complaint with Unia or to initiate proceedings before the Labour Court. However, these legitimate complaints can have a boomerang effect on strikers and on workers' support for delegation and union actions. Such practices on the part of the employer are obviously unacceptable and must be denounced. Therefore, Madam Minister, I come to my questions. How can we enforce this prohibition of discrimination on the basis of trade union belief, as reflected in the 2007 law, without turning against strikers? Are further complementary measures to combat this discrimination envisaged? Can the role of social inspection not be increased to oppose such discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u5	Mr President, Mr Goblet, trade union conviction is one of the criteria protected by the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination. However, care must be taken not to confuse the expression of trade union conviction with the exercise of the right to strike, which is enshrined in a judgment of the Court of Cassation of 21 December 1981 and recognized by the European Social Charter of 18 October 1961, revised on 3 May 1996. This right is specific to the worker and does not require recognition by the trade unions. It is possible that an advantage granted by an employer to a non-gregist may constitute indirect discrimination within the meaning of Article 4 § 9 of the Law of 10 May 2007. However, it is not clear which protected criterion could be invoked, since the reasons for strikes may be multiple in the worker's head. It could be as much a political conviction – a protected criterion – as a manifestation of purely individual economic interest – an unprotected criterion. Potential discrimination situations should be considered on a case-by-case basis. This is how the labour inspectorate "Control of social laws" carries out, when it receives a complaint about discrimination on the basis of one of the criteria protected by the Act of 10 May 2007. With regard to the proactive fight against discrimination, also known as the "mystery call technique", it is regulated by the Act of 15 January 2018. These powers can only be exercised on the basis of a complaint or an alert and, therefore, not in a proactive or systematic manner. In addition, the facts must be supported by data mining or data matching results. It also requires the express authorization of a magistrate to perform specific duties. Moreover, the persons concerned who are the subject of the findings cannot be provoked. The research method should be limited to creating an opportunity to update a discriminatory practice. An employer who publicly announces its willingness to discriminate would voluntarily be subject to article 444 of the Criminal Code allowing criminal proceedings for incitement to discrimination under article 20 of the Act of 10 May 2007. Indeed, only public incitement to discrimination on one of the criteria protected by law can be criminally prosecuted. In other cases, the Labour Inspectorate "Control of Social Laws" will intervene to encourage employers to put an end to the discrimination found.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u6	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Proactivity and a legal means of ending all discrimination and even any intention to discriminate on the part of employers will have to be considered. Indeed, it is not acceptable to oppose categories to other categories. When we find ourselves faced with recognised strikes that have been the subject of a formal notice of strike – this is not a question of wild strikes – it is not normal for employers to seek, through discrimination, to undermine the work done by workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u7	Minister, the collapse of the Thomas Cook Group has serious consequences for Belgian workers. On September 24, 2019, we learned that Thomas Cook Belgium had started a judicial reorganization procedure. At the same time, management was already announcing the dismissal of no fewer than 75 employees. On Tuesday, 1 October, the Ghent company court declared Thomas Cook Retail Belgium bankrupt and more than 500 jobs were then threatened. At present, there is a great deal of concern for the follow-up and many questions remain unanswered. Although 62 of the 91 agencies have been taken over, the fate of 300 workers remains extremely unclear, since the Spanish buyer Wamos saved 200 jobs. As far as the maintenance of employment is concerned, workers receive contradictory signals: they are dismissed but are asked not to look for another job because part of them could be recalled. If this proves to be correct, we do not know the wage conditions of the workers taken over or the compensation provided for the workers not taken over. With regard to the payment of wages, if the news has been reassuring in the press, uncertainty is still present and we do not know whether the workers will be able to recover their dues. Of course, the Enterprise Closing Fund could intervene but its intervention is capped at €6,750 for salary arrears and other benefits, €4,500 for holiday leaves and €25,000 for compensatory notice allowance. Beyond that, workers risk not getting anything back. Minister, my questions are simple. Can you take stock of the situation and the discussions aimed at saving the remaining jobs? How will workers be selected by the employer? How can we ensure that there is no discrimination? What about salary and notice payments? Will they be paid by the company? Will the Enterprise Closing Fund be involved? If so, will the ceilings, in some cases, prevent full compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u8	Mrs Thémont, the Thomas Cook Group had four active legal entities in our territory. Three of them were declared bankrupt on September 25. Thomas Cook Retail Belgium was the company with the largest number of agency staff. It was declared bankrupt on 1 October. Meanwhile, Wamos Benelux took over 62 of the 91 agencies of Thomas Cook Retail Belgium. In order for a recovery after bankruptcy to be possible, within the meaning of the Act of 26 February 2002 on closures and of the collective labour agreement No. 32bis, the continuation of the activity must take place within three months of the bankruptcy. However, this period may be extended under certain conditions, in particular if the curator indicates the existence of negotiations with a potential successor. If the investigation establishes that the legal conditions have been met in the event of bankruptcy, workers will be entitled to an intervention from the Enterprise Closing Fund in the form of closing allowances and contractual allowances, including severance pay and possible salary arrears, for a maximum amount of 25 000 euros gross per worker. On the other hand, if there is a recovery, rehired workers will not be entitled to either closure or severance pay but to other contractual compensation. In addition, they will be entitled to a transitional allowance corresponding to the last monthly remuneration for the period of inactivity between the date of bankruptcy and the date of the undertaking by the employer. Pursuant to collective agreement No 32a, the employed persons employed shall retain their seniority acquired by the bankrupt from the employer. Unrecovered workers are entitled to total assistance from the Enterprise Closing Fund. Unlike a conventional transfer, after bankruptcy, the future employer chooses the workers he wants to take back. All workers are on an equal footing, including, for example, protected workers. The worker is also free to choose whether or not to make the transfer. In addition, collective agreement No. 95 and the 2017 law aim to promote equal treatment in all phases of the employment relationship. Equal treatment is defined as the absence of any form of discrimination based on the criteria listed in collective agreements and in this Act, including past illness or disability. When considering a complaint based on collective agreement No. 95 or the 2017 law, which prohibits discrimination based on current or future health status, the judge will always decide on a case-by-case basis and on the basis of the reasons given whether or not a prohibited distinction has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your fairly comprehensive answer. Nevertheless, I still have a few questions, particularly as regards the rescue of the remaining jobs. You're saying there's going to be an investigation into the legal conditions. I'm waiting to get the information. You also did not reply about the ceilings: will workers be able to receive full compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u10	The limit is 25 000 euros, but it depends on social liabilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u11	What about the situation of the remaining workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u12	After that, it happens individually. They will be directed to the employers' fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u13	Mrs. Depraetere is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u14	Mr President, Minister, on 28 March this year the CEO of steel wire producer Bekaert announced a restructuring: 281 out of 1,300 jobs would disappear. It is not that the company is in distress, but the CEO has promised the shareholders a higher return with a doubling of the return on capital from 5% to 10%. The workers have not considered the announcement to be a failure accompli and have carried out a lot of actions over the past six months, including a number of very creative such as slow-track actions. Of course, they've stopped, too. This has forced the management to make a number of concessions, and in one piece she has also had to return to her steps. In the meantime, the number of redundancies has been reduced and a social plan has agreed that workers from 58 years of age can go to SWT as part of a restructuring company. A first question seems quite obvious to me, Madam Secretary. Will you approve the SWT scheme? In this way, the social impact can be mitigated. Secondly, many Bekaert employees are very displeased. They cannot understand that even in Moen, a very lucrative and innovative establishment, where people have given the best of themselves, the axe falls. That is not explained, especially since Bekaert is financially sound. That is why we are also suggesting that an InBev law should be created so as not to allow profitable companies to simply go into mass discards. Madam Secretary, what measures do you intend to take in order to limit this situation? After all, we need to be able to fight stock exchange-related redundancies in profitable companies. Our study service has once again calculated a top 50 of social discounts for 2018. It is not surprising that we also find Bekaert in this, with a tax rate of -1 %. That actually means that Bekaert recovered 337.200 euros from the tax administration. We find that very exciting, because Bekaert, who enjoys tax advantages here and is financially healthy, still pays off people. Madam Minister, do you not think it is lawful and even logical that the tax benefits should be recovered if such financially sound companies discard people?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u15	Mr De Vuytst, for the four Bekaert sites mentioned, on 28 March 2019, in the intention of collective redundancies, 281 redundancies were to be made. The final number of redundancies is often different from what the employer initially aims to achieve, because the number of effective redundancies is still being reduced during social negotiations. The factory in Moen completely closes, the technology center in Deerlijk, the Engineering department in Ingelmunster and the number of servants and executive functions in the Zwevegem plant are reduced. Finally, the number of redundancies could be limited to 182 as a result of the negotiations between management and trade unions. For 99 employees another solution was found, namely mutation, voluntary departure or SWT. A social mediator of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Dialogue was involved in the negotiations. An employment cell was set up and it is intended to guide all affected employees through outplacement to a new job. In this context, Bekaert has also compiled an overview of all the vacancies of companies in the region. I would like to point out that activation is, of course, a competence of the regional colleagues. My predecessor, Kris Peeters, had contacts with both the trade unions and the management of Bekaert. This showed, among other things, that the local management considers that the restructuring is a return on profitability. Finally, as far as your question on tax reductions is concerned, it is unfortunately not within my competence, but within that of Mr De Croo, the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u16	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. Indeed, following an announcement, it often appears that, over time, the negotiations between the social partners do not always make the soup as hot as it is served. However, I am disappointed by your answer, precisely because the establishment is financially sound. You say that this does not fall within your competence, but it is the responsibility of a Federal Minister of Work to ensure that we are certainly going in such a location and in that context for full employment and thus for the full maintenance of employment. On the basis of the figures of the FPS Employment, it appears that in the period from January to September 2019 61 technical business units indicated a plan for collective redundancies. That dismissal concerned 4,126 employees. I list a few: Bekaert, Vandewiele, NLMK, Nexans, Lhoist, Lipton, Fnac, Punch Powertrain and the list is getting longer and longer. So currently 4,126 people are in uncertainty. They're wondering how it's gonna go on. The PVDA thinks it should be done with redundancies, especially in companies that make profits. That is why I would like to give you a few more suggestions. Firstly, we believe that the Renault Act should finally be amended. Companies have a responsibility to demonstrate that there is an economic need for restructuring or dismissal plans. Secondly, if profits are recorded or dividends are distributed, there should be no authorisation for redundancies. If these two conditions are not respected, it seems clear to me that a federal government will immediately recover all the tax gifts and tax benefits granted. I take note of your answer, Madam Secretary. I will, of course, also reconnect with the people of Bekaert and anyone who sympathizes with their struggle. We will certainly keep these people informed and follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u17	Mr President, Minister, the Closing of Enterprises Fund, like the RVA, has set up a sample quality control at various stages of file processing. Since January, the FSO would also take into account the financial size of the errors identified. Can you confirm that this quality measurement, including the financial impact, is taking place? If so, what is the current impact of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u18	Mr President, Article 28 of the Administrative Agreement stipulates that the Closed Enterprises Fund shall check on a random basis whether decisions on employee files concerning the admissibility and calculation of benefits were taken in accordance with the applicable legal and regulatory provisions. This control is based on the statistical process control method. The SPC shall be performed the day following the processing of the dossiers. The right to admissibility and the calculation of fees applied for shall be verified on a case-by-case basis. The audit corresponds to 5% of all fees. The administrative agreement states that the number of correct decisions relating to eligibility and calculation of fees must be at least 92 %. In reality, the average of 2019 is currently 96.37 %. Since January 2019, the FSO has linked this sample quality control to its admissibility and calculation to its financial impact. On this basis, the financial impact for the period January 2019 to September 2019 amounts to 0.078 % of expenditure, which amounts to 80.619 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I get the impression the numbers are pretty good. The calculations must certainly ensure that accurate calculations are made by the FSO for both small and large companies and that the specific funding targets are used correctly and for the correct purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u20	Madam Minister, in the report to Parliament, the Court of Auditors examines the procedure followed by the Fund for the compensation of employees made redundant in the event of the closure of undertakings, the FSO, in order to compensate employees when a company closes down and the financing of the FSO. The Court of Auditors points out that the FSO does not communicate sufficiently proactively with potential rightholders, although it has all their data. However, this is not an obligation for the FSO. The Court of Auditors recommends that the Social Insurance Charter be extended to the FSO. In the meantime, the FSO should apply the principles of the Charter as good administrative practice. The Court also examined the award criteria and the way in which the different types of compensation are calculated. The calculation of the contractual termination fee is complex and may lead to divergent interpretations and errors. The closing fee cannot always reach the target group with the award criteria. As a result, not all workers are treated equally. The Court of Auditors recommends, inter alia, that the revised decisions be highlighted in a separate note and that the FSO should make more systematic contact with the court commissioner if the curator does not answer his questions. Madam Minister, what measures have you taken to improve communication with potential rightholders? Have you already taken steps to extend the Social Insurance Charter to the FSO? If so, what is the state of play? If no, why not? Finally, what measures have you taken to remedy the above-mentioned problems? If so, can the obligation to provide information by, inter alia, the curator be considered or introduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, both questions relate to the granting of allowances by the FSO. As for your question about the proactive communication by the FSO to redundant workers about the compensation they may receive following the closure of the company, I can tell you the following. At present, the administration, in consultation with the representative trade unions, is examining possible ways of working with a view to informing potential rightholders of the possibility of being reimbursed by the FSO as from the closure of their business. This presupposes the identification of the best procedures and the development and testing of the necessary fluxes concerning social data. Although the FSO is not legally bound by the social insured person's charter, it claims to respect the information requirement set out in the HSV and to inform the potential rightholder proactively about the possibility of obtaining compensation. The FSO can apply the principle directly in its processes, without having to issue a royal decree or a ministerial decision. The FSO informed its management committee about the initiatives the administration will take in this regard and included this in its operational plan 2018-2020. The 2020 Operational Plan provides for its implementation in October 2020. This process will be operational before the end of next year. The FSO will implement this new process in its organisation within the framework of the principle of good governance and thus also follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. With regard to the conditions for granting and the calculation of contractual fees, the FSO ensures correct and uniform application of the rules in its work processes. In order to further strengthen these safeguards and to avoid differences of interpretation, the FSO's strategy aims to standardise and automate the rules on the calculation of the most frequently requested contractual fees, in consultation with its main partners, the trade unions and the curators. This standardization and automation in the computer application have been achieved for the calculation of the termination fee and the pay arrears. The aim is also to standardise and automate the calculation of the other fees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your positive reply. It is also good to know that the process will be fully completed next year. Optimum and proactive communication by the FSO is certainly a must. Equal treatment is also a priority for every worker. Taking into account the administrative burden, on the one hand, and the emotional consequences of closure, on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the FSO is used for what it serves, in particular the remuneration of workers made redundant in the event of closure of undertakings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u23	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is an issue that I have already raised on many occasions in the Committee on the Economy. At the end of October, we learned from the press that the Spanish company Wamos had taken over 62 of the 91 agencies of Thomas Cook/Neckermann. The agencies taken over by Wamos are distributed throughout the country, saving 195 out of the 500 jobs Thomas Cook Belgium had. Minister, can you give us a snapshot of this takeover of Thomas Cook Belgium by Wamos? Does the latter intend to resume all the activities of Thomas Cook Belgium? Do you know the list of agencies taken over by Wamos? If so, can you give it to us? What measures have you taken or intend to take in the coming weeks to help the 300 people who have not been taken up by the company in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u24	Mr President, Mr Prévot, I have already answered several questions in response to Mrs Thémont. Having said that, my administration does not have a file concerning Thomas Cook and does not intervene in the procedure of resumption. Your information about the Spanish company Wamos is nevertheless correct. Wamos Benelux took over 62 of the 91 subsidiaries of Thomas Cook Retail Belgium. These subsidiaries opened their doors on 21 October, allowing 200 workers to continue their activities. Wamos Benelux, which operates travel agencies under the name of Neckermann, has concluded an agreement with the trade unions establishing the wage and working conditions of the staff members who may remain. However, at this stage, not all of Thomas Cook's activities have been resumed. Wamos Benelux is not a travel organizer, but only acts as a retailer of the following companies: Club Med, Worldia, Pegase, Imagine, Disney, Corendon, MisterFly, GeneralTour, Iberostar, Expedia, SnowTrex and Corsica Travel. For the 29 remaining stores in Flanders, trustees have been looking for a potential buyer in recent weeks. This is Hillman Travel, which supports the furniture of the agencies. There is no staff provision in the agreement between the trustees and that company. With regard to the staff not retained, the Enterprise Closing Fund has provided us with the following information: in order for a recovery following a bankruptcy to take place within the meaning of the Act of 26 February 2002 on closures and of the collective agreement of employment No 32bis, the continuation of the activity must take place within two months after the bankruptcy. If the investigation establishes that the legal conditions are met, workers will be entitled to intervention by the Fund in the form of closing allowances and contractual allowances, including severance pay and possible salary arrears for a maximum amount of EUR 20 000 gross per worker. Unlike a conventional transfer, the future employer chooses the employees he or she wishes to take over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u25	Madam Minister, thank you for reporting on the situation and for taking back the elements in your possession. Beyond the accuracy of the figures, I note that not all activities have been taken over, in any case by the Wamos Benelux Group, in particular because they are not all part of their core business. I also note that staff who are not retained could eventually benefit from the Enterprise Closing Fund, following the ongoing investigation. I assume that with your colleagues in the government, you will have a consultation with your colleagues in the Regions, particularly with regard to the conversion cells. This is a very interesting tool in the case of massive redundancies, as is the case here. Thank you for your answers. I will remain attentive to the procedure and will certainly come back to you to see what happens next.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u26	Madam Minister, a scandal has just been revealed in Liège. The manager of the JD Sports store has made racist statements towards her employees, a situation which is not yet an isolated case in Belgium since, for some time, the number of complaints to Unia has been increasing. Among the cases brought, complaints of discrimination of a racist nature were given the highest priority. This is an opportunity for me to come back to the law of 15 January 2018 concerning mystery calls. An evaluation was supposed to be delivered to Parliament on April 1st. What about this evaluation? Is the use of these mystery calls operational? If so, what findings can be drawn from these investigations? Do we now have accurate figures on the sectors most affected by these discriminations and on the nature of these discriminations? Is there any change from previous years? In concrete terms, what objective criteria can be used to determine whether there is discrimination?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u27	Mr President, Minister, since April 2018, mystery calls can be used on the labour market. At the end of March, a year after its entry into force, it appeared that no mystery call had been performed. Minister Peeters then announced that there were four investigations in the pipeline. During the discussion of the law here, we have always said that there was a risk that it would be difficult to carry out mystery calls because there are many conditions attached to them. Moreover, there must first be an indication and a complaint, while one could also be proactive, on the basis of data mining. In statistics one could also look for flashing lights. We should then be able to go further without a complaint. Otherwise, people continue to count on the complaints they make and report. However, we know that people do not always know that they are discriminated against. If one is not accepted for an application, there can be all kinds of reasons. One does not know whether it has anything to do with the fact that one is too old, has the wrong skin colour, has a limitation and so on. We also know that people who are often discriminated against are tired of reporting. They get tired of standing up for themselves all the time. That is why we have always been in favour of a proactive approach to this, in order to impose more responsibility on the State to ensure that the laws are complied with, rather than keeping them in the hands of those who may be discriminated against. The law stipulates that one year after the entry into force, on 1 April 2019, an evaluation should be given to Parliament. As far as I know, that never officially happened. We only received information on parliamentary questions. Do you still foresee a thorough evaluation, as required by the law? Then I have questions about the number of mysterycalls that have been performed since April 2018. I already talked about the four files that were in the pipeline at the time. Were those investigations carried out effectively? Can you provide statistics by type of reason, based on the type of complaint? Is the combination with data mining data about to happen? Has discrimination been established on the basis of these mystery calls? If so, in how many cases? I would have liked to have seen this divided into grounds of discrimination and numbers. In how many of these cases did mediation take place? I would have liked to have a division there too. How many of these cases did a lawsuit get filed? I'd like a division there, too. Have employers been convicted on the basis of mystery calls? Can you make a division for that, too? How many complaints were filed that could form a basis for mysterycalls? A technical working group was created to identify the algorithms needed to detect data mining and matching companies operating in a discriminatory manner. How far is that investigation? Have the databases been sufficiently updated to effectively achieve data mining? What initiatives have been taken to this end? Have you won to reduce the mandatory cumulative conditions so that mysterycalls are also proactively possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u28	Since April 2018, the law on mystery calls has been in place and social inspectors can present themselves under a false identity or another identity as applicants or customers to detect discrimination in the labour market. The law stipulates that a year after the entry into force, i.e. 1 April 2019, an evaluation should be delivered to Parliament. According to Unia, an evaluation has already been carried out by the federal inspection services, but it has not yet been released. In this context, I have the following questions. Can you confirm that an evaluation has already been made? How many mystery calls have been performed? What evaluation have the federal inspection services made? Is it possible to get a copy of the evaluation report? The Social Criminal Code could also provide for an administrative fine for all infringements of the prohibition of civil discrimination in employment relations. Is that also included in the evaluation report? Mysterycalls can only be deployed after written permission from the labour inspector. Do these legal obstacles not threaten to delay the investigation into discrimination? Moreover, the mysterycalls can only be used after objective indications of discrimination. In what way is it determined which indications of discrimination are objective? Datamining is essential. An analysis of federal databases can be used to identify discrimination patterns, also proactively, because evil has often already been done. What progress has been made and what progress has been made on the practical implementation of data mining? What resources will be made available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u29	Colleagues, after each notification or application for a mystery call an evaluation is made internally and/or with the stakeholders. Each step is a new learning process and gives rise to adjustment and consultation with the actors concerned. To date, in two of the four cases filed, authorization has been obtained by the Labour Auditorate. A mystery call was then made. No infringement could be found in these files. It should be noted that on December 20, 2018, a circular from the Attorney General's Office on the legal text of January 15, 2018 entered into force. The first surveys on the basis of these particular investigative techniques could not therefore be initiated at the beginning of 2019. For three files, consultation prior to the filing of files with the Labour Auditorate is ongoing. We return immediately to this phase of the consultation. There is no formal evaluation report and there has been no administrative fines in the files dealt with for the time being. After each case that could qualify for a mystery call, the problems, needs and opportunities are examined internally, and solutions are sought or consultation initiated. Until now, the written consent of the labour inspector has not led to delays. Cooperation with the labour auditorates has been smooth and decisions have also been corresponded within a very short period of time. To date, a double assessment has been made to determine whether there was objective evidence of discrimination. An initial selection was made by Unia and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Afterwards it was reviewed internally by the Department of Supervision of the Social Laws of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. Of course, the final assessment is done by the labour auditorates. The minimum requirements provide that there must always be documentation-supported reporting and that data mining figures must be clearly different from those of a regional reference group and/or sector. This cooperation and development is in full development, but is not always evident for legal and other reasons. The rules under the GDPR guidelines must be complied with. In addition, the data should be supplemented with personal data such as origin and gender. So there is no global evaluation. Four cases have been identified today, with no infringements detected in two cases. There has really been case-by-case examination of where to adjust. There are three cases pending now. They are constantly evaluating, but I think there should be more cases in order to be able to draw up a full evaluation report. In this dossier, there is actually a constant evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. It must be noted that there is no overall assessment. I guess at some point, we're gonna land and be able to get one. I hear there are still three outstanding cases. I also understand that the Labour Auditorate did not recognize, in any case in two cases, any infringement. However, I am not entirely satisfied because I have not received answers to all my questions. I will allow myself to return to you if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am amazed that the predictions we made about this and the reason why we abstained on this part of the law, with all the comments we made then, now appear to be correct. I don't like getting into this right away. I understand that two of the four files have been approved. In these two cases, no infringements were committed. That's very limited. Now there are three pending cases that still have to be approved. That's very little. I think it's a very cumbersome procedure. In the end, we have been able to live with the auditor, but the cumulative conditions and the fact that it cannot be proactive are problematic. I suspect it may also have to do with the number of inspectors. There must be enough inspectors to carry out the work. I added that element to the debate at the time. In order to perform mysterycalls properly, it is sometimes necessary to recruit certain persons with certain characteristics in order to be able to do so in a credible way. The legislation as it is today is no excuse for me not to see how we can do better in the coming years, to give an answer to people who are discriminated against. That's our obligation. For example, it happens in Ghent on the rental market. That is a different context, but I cannot imagine that this is so different. Here we can only present this result, while in Ghent we are much further on. The fact that there are decisive tests alone already makes owners less inclined to discriminate. It is useful in terms of prevention, but it must work. We need to know that one can be tapped. I'm not talking about lawsuits. I am also talking about conciliation procedures that can be started. I'm sticking to my arguments back then. This is no excuse not to do anything in the years to come. This has got to be better. I think that we should also look at legislation to lighten the procedure, taking into account legal issues. We are convinced that this can be done. It also happens in other countries. We can do that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u32	Mr President, Minister, I am also a little surprised, because discrimination is still widespread. There are many people in the labour market who face discrimination and racism on a daily basis. The means to this end are disproportionate. The problem is also not taken seriously enough, since there has been no in-depth evaluation after one year. Reference was made to the cumulative conditions. This, of course, also prevents the proactive detection of discrimination. So we are a little disappointed. We are also looking forward to the files which will undoubtedly come in and which will be dealt with by the Labour Auditorate. We also hope that additional resources will still be made available for the deployment of more inspectors. We also expect an in-depth evaluation, as was stated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand your comments, but this is a thorough evaluation of four dossiers, two of which have gone further in procedure. I can't evaluate if there's nothing. There is legislation, but most of all there is a lack of files. In one year we have four files, two of which have gone further. If there are a hundred tomorrow, 50 of which pass the procedure, then we are going to look at these 50 dossiers effectively. There is clearly a lack of files today. The legislative framework is one element. I am also responsible for equal opportunities. I see what comes in through Unia and in other ways. It cannot be said that this is not easy enough. The institutes are sufficiently low-threshold to file files. If there are any files, we're gonna play our part. If there is sufficient mass, we can make a thorough assessment and we can adjust it. So there is also an aspect of dossiers and there are not enough of them today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u34	Madam Secretary, those files will not, of course, be on your plate by themselves. We insist that the A work inspection itself can proceed on the basis of data mining. It is possible to make a cross-section of a sector, for example the average age pyramid, and to check whether there are companies that have a strange shape and investigate it further. This cannot be done with the current legislation, so we are convinced that this legislation is responsible. I think it will also have to do with the fact that there must be enough people to carry out those investigations effectively. That doesn't come naturally and the law gets in our way there. I think it is a harsh statement when you say that nothing can be evaluated if there is nothing. That has been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u35	Mrs Willaert, we have trained 30 inspectors per region to supervise this. My people can only do what's in the law today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u36	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u37	Madam Minister, when I talk about the evaluation, it is not the dossiers that have been brought forward on the basis of that legislation, but the evaluation of the legislation. You say yourself that only four files have come in. This legislation needs to be reviewed and these cumulative conditions must be taken into account, because now the law is so limited that it makes sense that there are very few dossiers. When I talk about evaluation, I'm mainly talking about that aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u38	We didn't start until 2019, so let's see what this will give us in the coming period. I repeat that I would very much like to do that evaluation, but there are four dossiers today, two of which have gone further in procedure. If there are a hundred tomorrow and 50 go further, then the procedure is also what it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u39	Mr Depraetere is absent. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u40	Madam Minister, I would like to return to a question that I have already asked in plenary. For the first time since the creation of the European Union, a Member State will leave it. It is not just a Member State, it is one of our main trading partners, the United Kingdom. That's gonna have big consequences. Europe provides a budget of EUR 900 million from the European Solidarity Fund and the European Globalisation Fund to address the most adverse effects of the Brexit. That is certainly a good initiative, but we fear that the criteria for using these funds have been drawn up in such a way that they are virtually impossible for our companies, mainly SMEs. One of the criteria is, for example, that at least 500 workers must be made redundant within 4 months of the departure of the United Kingdom. How many companies are we talking about? That number will be very limited. In other words, our SMEs will almost be excluded from the compensation through these two funds. Madam Minister, first of all, do you agree that our country will be among the most affected countries after the Brexit? If so, do you agree that our companies and employees should be able to use these funds? Will our country review the criteria for making use of these resources on the European negotiating table?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u41	Mr Van Bossuyt, we have indeed already discussed this in plenary. As you know, a no-dealbrexit was prevented at the end of October, but the risk remains so that we still have to prepare for it. Quite a few Member States have expressed doubts about the use of the Solidarity Fund for a no-dealbrexit. For our country, Ireland and a number of other countries, the conditions of the fund to intervene are too restrictive. This does not allow for genuine solidarity. Other countries fear that the Fund's actual objective, namely to intervene in the event of natural disasters, will be undermined. Only a few countries fully support the Commission's proposal. An alternative is therefore sought, possibly through a specific fund. The planned threshold of EUR 1.5 billion for Belgium for the Solidarity Fund is high, all the more so as only certain costs incurred after a no-dealbrexit are eligible. Costs incurred after a Brexit with an agreement would therefore not be eligible. It is clear that a no-dealbrexit must be avoided in the first place. In the event that this is not possible, I agree with what was the Belgian position from the beginning, namely that a new specific fund should be set up. The extension of the use of the Globalisation Fund in the case of a no-dealbrexit was also the subject of a full agreement between the Member States, which was approved by the Council of the European Union. The legislative procedure is expected to be completed rapidly. As you rightly said, the conditions for the use of the Globalisation Fund are no different from those for restructuring resulting from a no-deal Brexit than for other restructurings for which the Fund can intervene. Since the regions are also responsible for the requests for intervention and must be informed by the companies of the planned restructuring, they are best placed to provide the necessary information. We have already discussed the conditions relating to the 500 employees and the 50 kilometres. It is important to know that they can also apply to a particular sector. You referred to SMEs, but also as a sector can be eligible, for example the textile industry in East Flanders or West Flanders. There are still possibilities in this respect. With the Act of 3 April 2019 on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the federal government has already taken the necessary precautions in several policy areas in view of a possible no-dealbrexit. This answers a number of questions from Mrs Depraetere. In addition, we are also preparing measures to mitigate the impact of a no-dealbrexit on the labour market and to give greater security to employers and employees of companies experiencing strong negative effects of a no-dealbrexit. These include temporary Brexit unemployment for servants, Brexit-time credit, and collective reduction of working hours. We hope to discuss this in the government over the next few weeks, and then the discussion will continue in Parliament with a view to a draft or a proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that everyone agrees that a no-dealbrexit should be avoided. It is certainly a good thing that Belgium itself is taking certain measures to deal with some of the most harmful effects. For the time being, the funds are only intended for the case of a no-deal, but everything points to the fact that there will also be adverse effects in the case of a soft brexit, so it is certainly necessary to consider whether the funds that have been released cannot be used. In this respect, you would like to refer to the regions which will have to provide the necessary information. However, you know as well as I do that the question of who is at the European negotiating table in Belgium is a very complex balance that does not reflect our state system at all. There has been no reform in this area since 1994. There is a good chance that a representative of the federal level, and not of the Regions, will sit at the table there. That is why I hope that the federal level will plead in favour of our SMEs and their employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u43	Allow me to make it clear that the Globalisation Fund also intervenes in the event of a soft Brexit, not just in the case of a hard Brexit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u44	Madam Minister, these practices have been common abroad for some time. Internet platform accounts are rented there via Facebook and WhatsApp groups, but De Standaard has discovered that such practices also exist in Belgium and that Uber Eats accounts are subleted via the Facebook group Livreurs Uber Eats Bruxelles. Furthermore, in the same article in De Standaard of 14 September, the Belgian spokesman of Deliveroo acknowledges that bicycle couriers are allowed to lease their account contractually. Moreover, they may even charge money for it to the person to whom they are sublet. The platform does not in any way control forms of abuse. In fact, without any identity check of who is driving for someone at the time, one can just as well rent an account to people without papers. One can also have a single account used by several people, which may lead to an abuse of the tax-free income thresholds in the sharing platform tax scheme. Are you aware that such practices also exist in Belgium? If so, have you already commissioned the social inspection to carry out additional checks? If that has already been done, what are the findings or figures? If any infringements have been detected, has your services contacted the Minister of Finance? I hope you agree with me that such infringements run counter to the spirit of the law on untaxed extra income on Internet platforms, because it is no longer possible to control the different income limits. If findings have been made, will they be taken into account in the research currently conducted by the Labour Auditorate on internet platforms? When would that investigation be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u45	You yourself referred to the Minister of Finance. This question is actually entirely outside the competence of the Labour Inspectorate, Monitoring of Social Laws, and even beyond that of the FOD WASO. The scheme related to the unpaid additional income through recognised sharing platforms is a purely fiscal measure. It is a possibility for a private individual to provide a service to another private individual outside any professional activity. For the answer to the question of whether the conditions for recognition have been correctly respected, please address my colleague from the Finance Department. With regard to your question about the activity of people without papers, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Asylum and Migration. With regard to the investigation by the Labour Auditorate, I do not, of course, have any information as a result of the separation of powers. It is clear, however, that the study started with the transition of employees to the self-employed status, which is different from working through a recognised collaborative economy platform that offers Deliveroo as an option alongside the self-employed status. I will ask the Social Inspectorate to conduct an investigation into the sub-licensing of the sub-platforms and, in particular, the aspect of undeclared work. I would like to share the results when I have received them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u46	Madam Minister, it is indeed a tax regulation, but as you say yourself, you will still be asking for an investigation from the Social Inspectorate. In my opinion, a great deal of labour legislation is not being complied with, for example, in the sublocation of such accounts. I am glad that you are giving that order and that you agree with me on this. I have nothing against digital progress, but it must not lead to nineteenth-century working conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u47	I understand Mrs. Rohonyi was absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u48	Minister, section 39b of the Employment Contracts Act of 3 July 1978 provides that, where a laid-off worker is entitled to at least 30 weeks' notice, the equivalent of one third of the notice is withdrawn from him to finance measures increasing his employability. This article was originally to enter into force no later than January 1, 2019. However, the law of 26 June 2019 postulated this entry into force on 30 September 2019 and allows you, by deliberate decree in the Council of Ministers, to further postpone the entry into force of the article until 1 January 2021. Minister, the discussions between the social partners have again shown us that this article is not about to enter into force. Has the government adopted a royal decree to postpone the date of entry into force? If so, how long? If not, has this article entered into force? How is it applied? Do you not think that it would be useful to remove it to allow the social partners to agree on a fair and realistic system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u49	Mrs Dedonder, Article 39ter of the Act of 3 July 1978 on employment contracts was introduced by the Act of 26 December 2013 on the introduction of a single statute. It granted sectors a period of time up to 1 January 2019 to conclude a collective agreement whereby one third of the measures relating to the dismissal of workers who have received at least 30 weeks' notice are transformed into measures to increase employability. In view of the practical problems raised by Article 39ter, it was agreed, in the interprofessional agreement concluded by the social partners, to develop another solution by 30 September 2019, granted by the law of 26 June 2019 implementing the draft interprofessional agreement, with a view to concluding a collective labour agreement. It has been planned to fix by royal decree a later date in the Council of Ministers which, however, may not exceed 1 January 2021. So far, the government has not taken such an order. Since, for the time being, no sector has concluded a CLC pursuant to Article 39ter, it is impossible to make this measure effective. Negotiations between the social partners for a solution are under way. I have not yet received a signal regarding any steps they intend to take in this case. I want to let the social partners do their job in order to reach an agreement. If they are able to propose an alternative solution, appropriate follow-up will be given at the political level. As you know, ma'am, it's also related to the speech on the minimum wage. But I very much hope that the social partners will do their work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u50	Yeah, we hope so, but we still have a little doubt about it. That is why I asked whether the article should not be deleted in order to allow the social partners to agree in the future. I leave this point to your reflection. Otherwise, we can still wait a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u51	I do not think that is the position of all the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u52	Mr.President, Madam Minister, following the Royal Order of 16 December 2015, paper eco-cheques are to be replaced by electronic eco-cheques. This is a step forward since this change represents administrative simplification, a reduction in costs and a guarantee in case of loss or theft of cheques. However, this shift from paper to electronics does not seem to be fully realized. Indeed, in its opinion of September 2018, the CNT notes that the timetable proposed in its previous opinions for a complete and definitive transition to electronic eco-cheques could not be kept on 1 January 2018. Today there is still a double flow, both paper and electronic. The shift to electronic eco-cheques represents an important focus in the next 2019-2020 sectoral negotiations. Minister, has the royal order in question been passed? Could a full and final date of transition to electronic eco-cheques be announced to cheque issuers and employers? How many Belgian workers have received part of their wages in meal vouchers and eco-cheques? For what average amount? Could you also provide us with the figures per year since 2015? Are you planning, in consultation with the NTC, to make changes to the list of what can now be purchased through eco-cheques? It is known that this list contains elements that do not appear to be environmentally or sustainably positive. Are discussions underway to review this list of services but above all goods that can be purchased with eco-cheques?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u53	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, most of your questions – amendments introduced by the Royal Decree, the numbers requested by category, etc. –, are the responsibility of Social Affairs and are the responsibility of the Minister De Block. However, I can point out that the list of products and services that can be purchased with eco-cheques has recently been amended, notably by CTC No. 98/6 of 16 July 2019. This new list entered into force on 1 September 2019 and is available on the National Labour Council website. For the other questions, I refer you to my colleague, Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you. I will not fail to address my questions to Minister De Block. I am surprised not to have been warned, as is usually the case when questions need to be redirected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u55	Minister, for years the press has been publishing articles, white cards and testimonies about the working conditions of call center employees. There have been years of desperate attempts to denounce certain situations, in vain. Nothing moves and nothing changes. The latest article dates back to October 25, 2019. The last hour proposed an icy article: "Les sous pas reluisants d'un call center". Precarious jobs, unrenewed contracts, rights of flouted temporary workers, stress, pressure on the part of the employer, inhumane working conditions, and so on. Madam Minister, the majority of workers in this sector face unprecedented precariousness: an indefinite temporary contract, fear of losing their jobs overnight, difficult to obtain leave. We are facing an unacceptable situation. Minister, how do you explain that the working conditions of these interims are not improving? Do you intend to look into the situation? A second unacceptable element concerns the daily pace of work. If the turnover is not satisfactory, the worker is automatically replaced. This gives way to surrealistic scenarios where interims cannot go to the bathroom when they want, for example. Always timed, they are subjected to significant stress. Minister, are you going to recognize more pro tempore rights? The pressure on them is unbearable. Their working conditions are unacceptable. I think it's time for the situation to change, and very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u56	Mrs Thémont, call centres are the responsibility of the National Auxiliary Joint Commission for Employees (CP 200). It goes without saying that the remuneration and working conditions of workers and temporary workers must also be respected in this sector. If this is not the case, the inspection of social laws may be seized to open an investigation. During the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 (until 30 September 2019), 70 surveys were carried out by the labour inspection of social laws within call centers: 24 in 2017, 25 in 2018 and 21 in 2019. These checks covered 4,525 workers. In the course of these investigations, 130 infringements of the legislation were found: 89 of these offences were the subject of a warning or a request for regularization, while 41 of these offences were the subject of a pro justitia. The main areas of non-compliance were: social documents and Dimona, labour regulations, payment of vacation pay, payment of various bonuses and remuneration for public holidays. As far as temporary work is concerned, it is regulated by the Law of 24 July 1987 on Temporary Work, Temporary Work and the Provision of Workers to Users and by the CLC No. 108 of the National Labour Council on Temporary and Temporary Work. During the previous legislature, various initiatives had been taken to improve the status of temporary workers, such as the abolition of the 24-hour rule for the establishment of employment contracts and the stricter approach to successive day-to-day contracts. The monitoring of social laws is particularly attentive to the control of temporary work. Control of temporary workers is one of the priority objectives of the service. Each social inspector must, during the year, carry out at least ten checks on the working conditions and remuneration of temporary workers. When checks are carried out within undertakings and, in this case, within call centres, if temporary workers are employed there, their working and remuneration conditions are checked in the same way as those of other workers in the undertaking. Another aspect of the control is to verify that the reason for which the temporary worker is employed at the user's place of employment is statutory, i.e. that an interim worker may be employed only for the replacement of a worker whose contract has ended or is suspended, in the case of temporary additional work, for the performance of exceptional work and for the purpose of filling a vacancy. The procedure to be followed and the duration of temporary work inherent in each ground shall also be verified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u57	Minister, I understand that over three years, there have been 70 inspections of social law control, 130 violations, 89 warnings and 21 POs. What is of great concern to me is the working conditions that I find inhuman within call centers. I think we should try to strengthen controls on people's working conditions. We hear here that workers can't even stand up to go to the bathroom. I find this inhuman. We can't tolerate such things. If there are controls, I understand that these are mainly controls on social laws. I think it is necessary to consider the aspect of workers and to strengthen controls on working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, there are more and more clauses in contracts between companies prohibiting or limiting the lay-off of a worker made available. This is particularly the case in subcontracts via consulting or temporary work agencies. This type of clause can be found: "During the entire period of cooperation between the parties and for a period of 12 months upon expiry of this contract, the parties shall refrain from dealing, directly or indirectly, with the workers and collaborators of the other party. The party in breach shall be obliged to pay the other party a flat-rate compensation equivalent to EUR 50,000, without prejudice to the right of the subcontractor to demand compensation for the damage actually suffered." Such clauses, indirectly, drastically restrict the worker's right to free choice and professional freedom. Worse still, the worker is generally not informed of their existence. For example, a worker may be denied a position because his former employer has provided for such a clause in his contract. This practice is tantamount to circumventing the Employment Contracts Act of 3 July 1978 and rendering the protections offered in article 65 of the Act inoperative. The case law has seriously restricted the validity of these clauses, but it must be noted that in practice they remain common and that some companies refuse to challenge them in the absence of legal certainty. In the end, it is the worker who suffers from it. Minister, under what conditions are such clauses valid? Do you not think it useful to legislate in order to clarify the situation and ensure the effectiveness of the protection offered to workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u59	Mr President, Mrs Thémont, my answer will be very technical because the subject is very technical. The issue addressed in your question is the non-drawing clauses also referred to as non-solicitation clauses for staff. The clause you quote must be analyzed as a clause stipulated in a commercial contract that is intended to prohibit the contractor from debauchering an employee of his/her business partner. In the context of subcontracting or making available, this type of clause prohibits the involvement of the worker by the customers with whom he is in contact. Under ordinary law, the non-contractual clause contained in a commercial contract is not specifically regulated. According to the doctrine, this type of clause between the co-contractors is, in principle, lawful by the fact that the prohibition is limited in time and that the employees concerned are identified. In addition to the fact that this type of clause prevents the worker from being engaged, for example, by the user undertaking, or therefore from having a more secure job, there are also questions concerning the application of the mandatory rules for the protection of workers contained in the Labour Contracts Act of 3 July 1978. Article 6 provides for a general prohibition of clauses restricting workers' rights. Article 17 provides for a delineation of the obligations of loyalty of the worker. Finally, Article 65 provides for the strict conditions of the non-competition clauses. This type of clause contained in the commercial contract and not in the contract of employment, these protective provisions are not applicable to workers while they would be applicable if the clause were included in the contract of employment. It should be noted, however, that it has already been decided by the labour courts that such a clause included in the commercial contract, which is therefore in principle lawful under the principle of freedom of contract, may conflict with the freedom of work and may constitute an abuse of the right vis-à-vis the worker who has not left. It has already been held that the use of such a clause degenerates into abuse of rights where there is a flagrant disproportion between the benefit received by the undertaking, which implements the clause, and the disadvantage suffered by the worker who is prevented from engaging with the third party contractor of the undertaking. The conflict between the standard which guarantees freedom of contract allowing the drafting of this contract containing a non-contractual clause and that which guarantees freedom of work can therefore be resolved by the judge by applying the rule of proportionality of the standard applied in relation to the legitimately pursued aim. In the event of an illegitimate non-drawing clause or abuse of rights in its application, the worker may therefore refer the matter to the court in order to preserve his rights. As I have indicated to you, in the Labour Contract Act, the necessary provisions are laid down to protect the worker's freedom of work and to regulate the restrictive clauses in the employment contract with his employer. You ask whether it is appropriate for the worker's protection to provide a legal framework for non-drawing clauses in commercial contracts between the employer and a third party. In view of the possible influence this could have on the functioning of the labour market, it seems to me wise to refer this question to the social partners. I shall send a request for an opinion to the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for this very technical answer. I'm not going to go back to every aspect. I am pleased to hear that you will refer the matter to the social partners. Indeed, the worker is severely penalized. Communicating together is already very technical. In an employment contract, I am not sure that the worker understands the legal clauses. I thank you for submitting this to the social partners and I will of course come back to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u61	Debates of the European Parliament 5501337C by Mr Julie Chanson has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55001423C by Mr Florence Reuter has been postponed. Debates of the European Parliament 55001428C by Mr Melissa Depraetere has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u62	Madam Minister, there have been some rather disturbing testimonies about the area of people who call on the income guarantee (IGU). The income guarantee is an important means of combating the fall in unemployment, but it is also a necessary adjustment that many people get when they become involuntary part-time unemployed. The philosophy behind this is that they would have so net more left over than if they were full-time unemployed. Following the last interprofessional agreement, the social partners reached an agreement to award a rise of 1.1 percent in wages. In April 2019, the federal government adopted this wage standard for 2019 and 2020. Wages have already risen, but now the gross reference amount of the IGU does not appear to have risen. It is still at 1,593.81 euros. We are now hearing testimonies from people who, of course, received a slightly higher part-time wage. They therefore earned more grossly, but because the reference amount did not increase, they lose tens of euros each month and the famous unemployment trap opens up again. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Have you or your predecessors already taken steps to resolve this? Will the benefits they missed be repaid to the beneficiaries with retroactive effect? Is this part of a wider problem? Are there any other reference amounts that need to be adjusted urgently? Will you work on an arrangement to automatically fix such adjustments in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u63	Madam Minister, I will not, of course, repeat everything that Mr De Vuyst has just said. You are well aware of the problem. Within the wage margin, certain sectors and companies have granted wage increases of up to 1.1 %. Now it appears that workers working part-time with an IGU actually fall net as a result of that wage increase. This is, of course, a problem, because the IGU is just trying to combat the unemployment trap and to ensure that people are left net more when they go to work than when they remain unemployed. So it turns out that if they get a little bit of a raise, they're going to fall net. Are you aware of that problem, Madam Secretary? If yes, will you take steps to correct the situation so that the original objective of the IGU, in particular the fight against unemployment, is preserved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the worker who works part-time can, under certain conditions, receive an additional income guarantee from unemployment insurance. One of the conditions for granting the income guarantee benefit is that the average gross monthly wage of part-time employment is normally less than the so-called reference monthly wage, in accordance with Article 131a, Chapter 1, § 4 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations. That reference monthly wage is equivalent to the average minimum monthly income, as determined by the collective agreement concluded by the National Labour Council on the guarantee of an average minimum monthly income and declared generally binding by Article 28, Chapter 2 of the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulations, as implemented by Article 5 of the Ministerial Decree of 26 November 1991 laying down the rules for the application of unemployment regulations. As you said, it is currently worth EUR 1,593.81. This amount shall be increased by 2% if the index is exceeded. An increase in wages may result in the entitlement to the supplementary income guarantee being cancelled if the increase results in gross monthly earnings exceeding the reference monthly earnings. In the design of interprofessional agreement 2019-2020 there is an increase in the average minimum monthly wage by 1.1 % However, no agreement has yet been reached within the National Labour Council. Should this happen, this wage limit will automatically rise for the income guarantee benefit. Other reference amounts are included in the unemployment regulations themselves and cannot therefore give rise to such a situation. The Royal Decree of 2 June 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 raised a large number of minimum amounts, flat-rate benefits and wage limits in the unemployment regulation. Finally, I would like to point out that an IGU must always be seen as a temporary situation, because it concerns people who work part-time involuntarily and are seeking full-time employment. The main objective is to increase their income through work. For this reason, we have taken measures in the last year which oblige the employer to offer additional hours as a matter of priority to these workers. I can only conclude that this shows once again how important it is that we have a fairly rapid agreement on minimum wages, which are on the table today with the Group of Ten. The lack of agreement on minimum wages also shows a negative effect here. I hope that we will soon have an agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u65	Madam Minister, do I understand that once there is an agreement in the National Labour Council, that income guarantee will indeed receive? So we are effectively waiting for that agreement. We will continue to follow that up with you. We hope that this agreement will be reached as soon as possible, so that the IGU can take over. It is not right, as you yourself quite rightly said, that a lot of people have now, ironically, deteriorated by an increase of 1.1 %. We had a lot of testimonies about that. I hope that this anomaly will be eliminated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u66	Madam Minister, I am also, of course, looking forward to an agreement on minimum wages. For people who in practice have less net left while getting a raise it is quite kafkaian to experience such a thing. Measures have been taken to encourage employers to recruit workers for more hours. However, you know as well as I do that this is not evident in certain sectors. For example, when working in shops, it is not obvious to combine several part-time contracts or to get more hours. These workers are therefore stuck in their situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u67	Mrs Dierick is absent, so her question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the Social Affairs Committee, your predecessor, former Minister for Employment, responsible for Persons with Disabilities, Kris Peeters, proposed an action plan early 2019 in the context of the functioning of the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities. In recent years, there have been particularly many complaints about the inadequate telephone service, the lengthy decision-making times and the administratively very difficult and lengthy procedures. I think everyone knows the story. Since the implementation of the Action Plan, progress appears to have been made. The telephone service is smoother and the decision-making time is shorter. In a written question we asked you on 23 October 2019, we asked the figures that would concreteise this evolution. I am still in happy expectation of these figures. My question is specifically about the action plan proposed at the time, which included 9 concrete action points. To what extent have these action points already been implemented? Can you give an update on the 9 action points? Where is the follow-up to the audit recommendations, such as the development of streamlined medical and administrative procedures? Was the telephone accessibility improved by the implementation of UcaaS? How many calltakers were recruited and formed? It was also said that statistics would be easier to consult on the website. One still has to search through the frequently asked questions to get them, but we were able to find them in the end. What are the results of the preliminary study for a successor of Tetra? How is the development going in cooperation with Smalls? Has an application been developed for the replacement of paper documents? Has there already been a redesign of contact forms and technical migration? Where is the merger of the Brussels Team in order to achieve a low-threshold reception and better service in the FINTO? What improvements were made to "My Handicap"? How does cooperation and consultation with the OMCWs and the health insurance funds proceed? Where is the future reflection on the problems of doctors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Willaert, those are nine questions, so I have a five-page answer. I will try to keep it brief and concise. The following recommendations of the federal internal audit were fully implemented. The operational objectives of all the teams of the Directorate-General have been redefined and must now be followed up on the basis of the monthly on-board tables of performance indicators. These indicators are in particular in line with the objectives set out in the strategic action plan drawn up by my predecessor and concern the reduction of time limits for examining file applications and the telephone access of services. Tools were developed to monitor applications at each important step of the treatment process. In the same context, applications, which still have the status of open application, are systematically checked with a view to their conclusion. The role, job description and objectives of the team facilitators were reviewed. The basic teams thus have a clearer framework, orientation and structure in which they can be trained and developed. In addition, an external consultant was asked to carry out a study on the workload of the teams. The results expected in January 2020 will make it possible to better allocate resources within the teams. Support and coordination of the teams were strengthened, in particular by four recruitments under the above-mentioned Action Plan. The reinforcements can now also provide legal, administrative and technical support in a satisfactory way. Sharing good practice in the organisation and quality of dossiers has also been improved by organising regular basic consultation by team facilitators, doctors or social assistants. The technical adaptations of the IT environment used by the evaluating physicians in the Medic-e application were also carried out. With regard to the recommendations on the preparation of quality work procedures, with a view to looking ahead to the citizen, to the organisation and to the principles of First Time Right, the administration, led by an external consultant, organised introductory sessions to get an idea of how customers experience the interactions with DG HAN and systematically identify problems with an impact on services. Based on the sessions, fundamental changes were identified. They will be part of the new First Time Right project, which will be implemented in 2020. 21 calltakers and a talent exchange were recruited to make the services available to the public. An accelerated training programme of 20 days was introduced to support recruitments with the aim of achieving results as quickly as possible. Since the introduction of the plan, access to the administration has been significantly improved. Almost all callers, more than 99%, have been able to reach the call center in April 2019 until today. The migration of the telephony system took place in October 2019, with no significant impact on the accessibility of the services so far. The preliminary study in collaboration with Smalls started in spring 2019 with an analysis of the existing file processing processes. This analysis was carried out on 1 July 2019 and consists of a description of the main processes and 95 problem situations and proposals for improvement. On the basis of this analysis, among other things, I have drawn up a plan of action, for which I asked the Council of Ministers for its approval. The plan of action provides for the construction of a completely new system by 2023. This is a necessary measure to ensure the continuity of the existing system. On 18 October 2019, the Council of Ministers approved my plan and instructed DG HAN and Smalls to initiate the project and designate a programme manager. In a first phase, the scoop and phasering of the project will be determined and a technical architecture drawn up. Development starts at the beginning of 2020. EUR 11 million was earmarked for this purpose in the budget. It is important that the field of work be involved. That was a questioning party to see how we can quickly integrate legislative adjustments into the new system, which is not evident now, so that we have a freely accessible, flexible system in this area. For the production of the letters I have instructed the DG Persons with Disabilities to further develop the existing cooperation with Fedopress and Minfin. At present, Fedopress is already responsible for printing and sending the letters produced by DG Persons with Disabilities. By April 2020, Fedopress and Minfin will also assume responsibility for the production of documents based on the input of DG Persons with Disabilities. This is initially a technical pathway, which creates flexibility for the implementation of substantive adjustments and for communication via other channels in a subsequent phase. For the realization of this technical process I have approved the start of technical profiles. The redesign, as well as the migration of the contact forms, will be further developed. The merger of the Brussels team was carried out, thus improving the quality of services provided to citizens at the reception of FINTO. Around 300 people are helped by the Brussels team every week. The changes that have taken place have not only made it possible to serve a greater number of people on a daily basis, but also to improve the quality of the reception by reducing citizens' stress and waiting times. My Handicap has already been adapted to give the care greenhouses access to the files that concern them. In addition, several functionalities are now being developed by Smalls, for example by generating documents via My Handicap and managing mandates. I can also say that there were a lot of questions from the field of work, not only from the care greenhouses, but also from other organisations that wanted access. There were some technical issues, but after the meeting we called, we saw that they were resolved. This means that the field can now facilitate files consultation via My Handicap. The DG Persons with Disabilities participated this year in the provincial meeting days organised by the PPS Social Integration with the OCMWs. During these meeting days, the employees exchanged information about My Handicap and the application procedure. As far as sickness funds are concerned, quarterly coordination meetings will now be organised with the central administration of DG Persons with Disabilities. The thinking exercise on the problems of doctors is now formalized in a new project, called Eva, which started this year. The main objective of the Eva project is to improve the quality of the assessment by reviewing the status role of the coordinating doctors, the self-employed doctors and evaluation assistants. Three additional statutory doctors were recruited under the above plan. In addition, the selection procedure is currently under way for the recruitment of eight evaluation assistants. Once recruited, these new evaluation assistants will participate in a pilot project to integrate their role into the multidisciplinary evaluation of disability. The results of this project will be extremely important to address the shortage of doctors in the short term. It's not obvious to find them. Finally, the project also aims to implement the audit recommendations on quality control of decisions taken on disability assessment. I've been active for seven weeks now. We have an action plan. We see the numbers, the parking cards, the smoothness with which files are processed. We've come a long way, but I feel a very positive dynamic within the administration to deal with things. For me, the most important thing is that the service is as good as possible. I feel a great deal of co-operation from the service to cooperate in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. May I ask that the reply be kept brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u71	Madam Minister, it was indeed a long question with a long answer but an answer that you were happy to give when I heard it. I found the hearings we've had very hallucinating. It seemed like a lot went wrong, even in the culture that ruled. Now I hear that the administration is greedy again and that things are improving. I can only welcome the important steps that are being taken forward. Chapeau.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u72	Madam Minister, these are of course not always technical questions; this question is more general in nature, but therefore no less important, quite the contrary. On 12 November last, the ABVV central Horval took action for a minimum wage of 14 euros per hour on the occasion of the international action day for a decent wage and a dignified minimum wage. Everywhere in the world, employees stand up for a wage to live on, rather than survive. In our country too, this legitimate demand is gaining fame and is prominently on the table of the social partners. Figures show that in Belgium, too, the number of working poor is increasing year after year. Today, 1 in 20 workers say they have to live with an income below the poverty line. Imagine what it is to have to feed, dress and send his children to school as a single parent with a gross wage of just 1.559 euros. On the other hand, we do see a certain fiscal gift policy. The tax shift represents an annual reduction of EUR 3.4 billion in social contributions for employers. It would be expected that this will lead to employment and full-time jobs with a decent remuneration. Unfortunately, the opposite is true, because the number of working poor continues to increase. In our view, it is high time that the 60,000 workers in our country were given a decent minimum wage. Madam Minister, can you explain why, as a result of the policies of the last five years, the number of working poor has continued to rise? Do you agree that the minimum wage should be raised, because a higher minimum wage is a good way of reducing the number of working poor, reducing the well-known unemployment trap and generating additional income for our social security? I would have liked to have heard your opinion on this, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u73	Mr De Vuyst, the percentage of workers living in a family at risk of poverty, working poor, increased from 4.8 % to 5.5 % from 2014 to 2018. The EU average is 9.2 %. In the Netherlands, France and Germany, the percentages are 6.1 %, 7.1 % and 9.1 % respectively. Perhaps I should point out that we should be careful with the interpretation of those figures, and certainly with minor changes. The figures are based on the SILC survey which does not really use a large sample. Poverty, including in working people, is often due to a combination of many factors. The individual situation of people and the complexity of the problem make it impossible to generalise simply. Fortunately, the percentage of working poor in Belgium is lower, although of course there is one too many. For Belgium, this definition is linked to our system of social dialogue and the more centralised wage formation, which goes hand in hand with it. Our country is doing well in an international comparative perspective in terms of equal pay for men and women. The working poor are usually part of a family where the volume of work is insufficient, for example because one of the partners has no job or only has to live on temporary or part-time jobs. The rather serious figures for our country, in addition to the factors already mentioned, also have to do with the fact that employees work on a large scale on a fixed basis and four fifths to full-time. Research has shown that raising the minimum wage would only partly affect the working poor. The social partners at the NAR are now in the process of adjusting the minimum wage collective agreement in order to increase the guaranteed minimum monthly average income. Above all, we must continue to work on a policy to increase our employment rate. This is good for the workers concerned and is an immediate contribution to the financing of social security. A new government must concentrate on strengthening income in poverty. However, a number of measures have already been taken in policy terms which have had a positive effect and still have a negative impact on keeping the working poor as limited as possible. We are thinking first of all of the tax shift, which meant a higher net increase in purchasing power for the lowest wages. The use of the welfare envelope is also such a measure. As a result, the lowest wages are improving. Benefits have also been raised several times to maintain their prosperity. Priority was given to benefits for persons with the highest risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u74	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. You mentioned a lot of elements. One of them was the tax shift again, of course, but we see a lot of people with the lowest incomes getting into trouble, because house prices, rents and energy prices have risen. Of course, this has a much greater effect on people who are employed in the lowest segments and who have a very low wage. They end up in poverty much easier. It is happening effectively that they are now more easily in poverty compared to five years ago. This is confirmed by the different figures. The minimum wage in our country is EUR 9.69 per hour. That is much less than in other European countries. In Luxembourg, the minimum wage is 11,97 euros and in France, 10,03 euros. Even in the Netherlands, the minimum wage is higher. Some say that the Netherlands is the guide country, so perhaps we should follow that example. Nor should we ignore the fact that a great deal of anti-poverty measures have been taken over the last five years. There is the wage standard and the difference between productivity and wages. In gross national product, we see that an increasing proportion of the wealth created by workers is increasingly returning to the same workers. The share of capital has systematically increased. Basically, there is the finding that prosperity is becoming less and less redistributed and belongs to those who need it most. We do not want to be left behind and have tabled a legislative proposal. I believe that a minimum wage of EUR 14 is a justified requirement, which is also shared by the trade unions. This can be achieved and is also possible given productivity gains. It also creates a positive economic spiral, just as the European Central Bank's intention is to boost the economy with negative interest rates. In my opinion, a very decisive measure is to raise the minimum wage. In that case, workers in the low-wage sectors will have a little more to spend by the end of the month. This will boost domestic demand and benefit our small and medium-sized businesses. This is creating a very positive economic spiral. We will also partly close the pay gap, because many women, employed in the low-wage sectors, will experience the upward effect of the increased minimum wage. We will also reduce the number of working poor. The increase in the minimum wage by 1.1 % is a step in the right direction, but it is certainly not enough to replace many people who are now employed in the low-wage sectors. Rather, we are thinking of an increase of 3.5%, as advocated by the ABVV. As I said, we have tabled a legislative proposal, so I hope that we can discuss it in due course in our committee. Of course, the social organizations and, above all, the trade unions will continue to pay attention to this and will continue to take action. In the United States, the most libertarian country, fast food workers have managed to enforce an increase. So it's definitely possible. All poverty organisations are unanimous on this. To bring people out of poverty, including generation poverty, income-enhancing measures are crucial. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u75	Mr President, briefly. It's a complex matter, we know that. In recent weeks, I have spoken a lot with experience experts on poverty. They tell me that there is the question of pay, but with the people on low wages, and especially with women, also very often a problem of mobility with associated childcare costs. That is therefore a broader perspective. There's something I don't understand about your reply. You are in favour of 14 euros or almost 2,300 euros on a monthly basis, i.e. an increase in minimum wages of almost 40%. At the same time, you say that it would be a nice step to be able to carry out the 1.1 % and 2.4 % within the Group of Ten. This is about 3.5 %, not 40 %. In that sense, we should be careful when you talk about 14 euros: how many jobs will this destroy? As far as the final part of your speech is concerned, I agree with you: we must do everything we can to get the agreement now on the table on 1.1 % and 3.4 %, linked to Article 39ter, through the Group of Ten. I find it poignant that many collective agreements have already applied 1.1 % today: the middle wages have all had this, but the lowest wages lose 17 to 18 euros every month without agreement. I would ask that everyone in their own constituency should mobilise people to ensure that there is a quick agreement on the table with the Group of Ten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u76	The thesis you cite to claim that raising the minimum wage to 14 euro would lead to job losses has been invalidated. This has been achieved in the United States and is already being applied in three states. If we simply look at the distribution of productivity gains, as we have just said, productivity is still growing in Belgium, but it is simply very unfairly distributed. Productivity gains can effectively cope with the increase in the minimum wage. That's what I wanted to give you. Then why are the conversations still going on? 1.1 % for minimum wages is simply too little. That is not substantial in getting a lot of people who are now in trouble, who are going to work and yet are not going to live. We certainly need to consider that. I dare say the other way round: by substantially raising the minimum wage, the economy will be encouraged. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u77	I suspect this discussion will reappear here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u78	Mr President, Minister, on 11 March 2019 the Royal Decree determining the conditions for positive actions came into force. Positive actions are temporary action measures and programmes to eliminate the inequality of an opportunity group in the labour market and in the workplace. Such positive action measures could have previously infringed the principle of equal treatment. Employers risked violating anti-discrimination legislation in this way. The Royal Decree now makes it possible to develop positive actions, actions and programmes without conflicting with the prohibition of discrimination. Positive actions are urgently needed to reduce inequalities in our labour market, for example for older workers, people with disabilities or people with a migration background. All the people dealing with inequality want to be pushed in the back. The goal is to get everyone on board. In addition, we all want to avoid that Belgium continues to dangle at the bottom of the EU list as regards the effectiveness rate for persons with a migration background. Madam Minister, I have a few questions about the application of that royal decision to determine the conditions for positive action. How many action plans were adopted by the Minister of Work since 11 March 2019? I realize it's not a very long time. How many of these action plans are adapted collective agreements? How many of these are instruments of accession defining the conditions for positive action? What are the grounds for discrimination and target groups? I would like to hear the number of adapted collective agreements and instruments of accession for each discrimination ground and target group. How many action plans were not approved? How many applications are pending? What actions have you or your predecessors taken to make this new measure known to employers? Were there any info moments organized? Was an information brochure developed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u79	Mr President, Mrs Willaert, I am afraid that I will repeat my answer to the question on mystery calls for this answer. To date, no action plan has been received and therefore no plan has been adopted. For that reason, I cannot answer most of your questions. Your questions about the dissemination of information, which I am concerned about, are important in this respect. As part of the establishment of the evaluation committee, we have contacted the Institute for Equality between Women and Men and the International Equal Opportunities Centre Unia, in order to ensure that they disseminate even more active information through their regular channels. The Confederation of Belgian Enterprises was also contacted in this context. The VBO informed and encouraged its members to use this measure, including recently in the Newsletter of 6 November. Through all the channels at our disposal, we are therefore trying to disseminate the information in full. Unfortunately, there are no action plans yet. I'm still waiting for the first plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u80	Thank you. I won't be hard on that. I just wanted to know what's going on. I think we should spread that as much as possible and continue to engage in the talks. I have seen that there is a very good and bulky brochure from the Minority Forum. That brochure shows all the tips, tricks and tools. I think this is also something that we can highlight. I will come back to this regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u81	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have already spoken often in this House about the issue of close caregivers governed by the Act of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of close caregivers. Since the adoption of this law, almost nothing has been done in this regard. But at the end of the previous legislature – if my memory is good, it was to be at the last plenary session on April 25, 2019 – a law was passed, namely the law of May 17, 2019. This law establishes recognition of close caregivers, allows for the establishment of the recognition procedure, provides a new right for caregivers and delegates care to the government to establish the other social rights to which close caregivers may be entitled. It is true that it has often been said that progress on this issue has not really been recorded for four and a half years. And then, during this particular period, there was finally this little advance. I prefer to speak here of progress because the word victory is, in my opinion, a little too strong. Still, a step has been taken for those people who are some 800,000 in our country and who are dedicated to helping a person who is dependent on their surroundings. This law was to come into force on October 1, 2019. But, as you know, in order for this law to be enforced, royal decrees had to be adopted. However, the said royal decrees have still not been published, even though I know that the Council of Ministers approved two draft royal decrees on 11 October. Madam Minister, I will not go back to the questions about the delay, the consultation, the content of the orders, since a debate took place last week with Mrs De Block on these issues. However, there is still a question that falls within your jurisdiction. Indeed, the law provides for a new one-month leave for close caregivers, which is not much. But that was the minimum minimorum on which Parliament agreed. However, the law states that the Government may, by royal decree, increase this period of leave to six months. Minister, will you take advantage of this opportunity to extend the duration of this new leave? If so, for what length of leave would you opt for? In addition, during last week's debate, Mrs De Block gave an update on the implementation measures for health insurance that fall within her jurisdiction. What about unemployment insurance? Is the royal decree sufficient? Should it be amended? Is it necessary to amend the law in order to be able to carry it out in the field of unemployment? Finally, do you think that 1 January 2020 is a realistic date for the operational nature of the scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u82	Mr Delizée, as you say, my colleague Minister for Social Affairs is also responsible for several aspects of this issue. The right to thematic leave for close caregivers and the right to interruption allowances are essentially within my competence. The law of 17 May 2019 is drafted in such a way that when the Royal Decree regulating the recognition of close caregivers comes into force, private sector workers who have the recognition as close caregivers will be able to benefit from the leave for close caregivers directly on the basis of the law. They will also be entitled to interruption allowances. This is in principle also the case for contract staff in the public sector. There is therefore no need for a Royal Enforcement Order in this regard. I did my job and now depend on my colleague's royal decree. On the other hand, for statutory staff in the public sector, a royal decree is required in order to regulate the right to leave. On 11 October the Council of Ministers approved the draft royal decree regulating the law of statutory agents whose status can be determined by the federal authority. This judgment is currently being submitted for opinion to various bodies. These are the Management Committee of the ONEM, the National Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities, the Public Enterprise Commission and Committee A.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u83	Minister, thank you for these answers. In fact, you answered questions that I did not ask in writing but that I adapted verbally. Thank you. It is clear, public sector, contract workers on the one hand, statutory workers on the other. Opinions are sought. Perfect! Nevertheless, there is one question that you have not answered. Will you take the opportunity to extend this leave to more than a month? In addition, does the date of 1 January 2020 seem credible to you to finalize this dossier?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u84	The deadline is one month after evaluation and can be up to six months. But the time limit specified in the royal decree is one month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u85	When they say the government can, you can decide three months. So we're staying for a month. What about January 1, 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u86	We're waiting for opinions, but, normally, yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u87	I thank the minister for her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u88	Madam Secretary, ambulance workers working in private ambulance services and driving for the 112 are apparently obliged, in addition to the services they provide professionally under their contract of employment, to perform additional shifts as a volunteer at a non-profit association, which is often linked to the employer's company. For example, it is not inconceivable that paramedics perform services in private ambulance services from 48 to sometimes 72 hours in one piece. One sometimes even speaks of 96 hours in one piece because they actually shift as a volunteer and simply alternate as a professional. I don't have to explain to you that people get tired with shifts like this. This also increases the risk of accidents and errors of assessment for ambulances when they are required to provide assistance. Many people don't stand it either: there is a huge staff turnover in these services, they get extinct quickly and eventually they switch jobs. Some return to their old job, others switch to the ambulance services of the fire department, where there is voluntary work, but where fewer hours are performed in one piece. In addition, there is a finding that the ambulance workers' wages are not paid correctly. Their employment contract establishes a basic wage. While paramedics work day and night shifts together, avenants only provide the basic wage for a 38-hour week in their employment contract, which means that they lack night and shift premiums. These malpractices have already been identified by the social inspection services, which have already carried out checks. The answer to a parliamentary question in the previous legislature showed that several infringements were detected during those checks. They were forwarded to the work audit centre, but the situation in the private ambulance services is not changing much. The complaints continue to flow, hence some questions, Madam Secretary. What is the current state of affairs? In what way will the case be followed up? How can abuses be avoided? Do you think that a change of law is necessary to stop practices?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u89	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the file is of course not unknown to me. At the Labour Inspectorate, General Directorate of Supervision of the Social Laws of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation, several investigations were launched into possible breaches of labour law in the ambulance services in Flanders. Several projustias were prepared and delivered to the competent labour auditors. These include infringements of working time, payment of overtime and Dimona. It is now up to the labour auditors to take the appropriate measures in these files. In one case, there are still investigations to be carried out. I can tell you that the above-mentioned infringements were also found there. The file would be dealt with in the near future by the competent inspector. Another file did not identify any infringements of the problem, but found other infringements of labour regulations. These will, of course, also be followed up. With regard to your second question, I share the opinion expressed earlier by my predecessor in committee, namely that it is not appropriate for a company to commit itself to the non-profit association for carrying out the same activities, with the same infrastructure and with the same staff. It could be considered to explicitly provide that the non-profit association cannot employ a person as a volunteer if the same person already performs similar services as an employee on the basis of a contract of employment for an undertaking with which the non-profit association is closely linked. You ask whether this requires legislative work. The answer is yes. We are talking about voluntary legislation, and this comes from my colleague De Block, the Minister for Social Affairs. So maybe you should put your ear to her. However, this does not seem illogical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u90	Madam Minister, I just wanted to confirm and know what the precise situation is before I take any further steps. I hope that this research will lead to results. I've spoken to several paramedics. Some work up to 96 hours a week. It's really about people who want to save lives, and now they're frustrated and up because they have to perform so many shifts after each other, which is actually not allowed by labour law. In any case, I will also put the question to your colleague De Block. I am already reaching out to take joint legislative initiative to put an end to these abuses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u91	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's 55001623C and 55001624C are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Lanjri's 55001627C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u92	Mr President, Minister, my previous question was about the imminent redundancies at Bekaert, this is about Lhoist. Madam Minister, the multinational Lhoist produces lime in the Meuse basin and announced in September that 120 of the 750 employees of the group in Belgium would be fired. The negotiations have so far led to the maintenance of 16 jobs, while the independent study firm Secafi recommended the maintenance of 36 jobs. These 36 jobs would improve the organisation of work and reduce the risk of excessive polyvalentity. They would also ensure safety and an optimal workload for the staff. A spicy detail. I know that you are not responsible for finance, as I have just said, but it is still nice to note that Lhoist made 257 million euros in 2018 and paid only 59,000 euros in taxes. Since 2013, Lhoist has made nearly 1.2 billion euros of profit. In addition, Lhoist would have received from the federal government EUR 3 million in aid and employment premiums of all kinds. This aid was, of course, granted with a view to maintaining employment. On the basis of this state of affairs, I have several questions for you, similar to those I asked in Bekaert's file. First, possibly for confirmation. What exactly did Lhoist get in terms of state aid? Can you confirm the trade unions' figure of EUR 3 million at 5 years or not? If not, what is the exact amount of the aid and the premiums it received? Secondly, you spoke about measures taken in the context of Bekaert and the employment cell. What measures could you take in this far-reaching restructuring in order to find a suitable solution for the workers affected? The above mentioned study firm Secafi has indicated that more jobs can be saved and can be preserved. Of course there are also a number of slopes provided by the unions themselves. In order to safeguard employment, we can, of course, also tap other barrels. There is a proposal to reduce working hours and reorganise work, and there are even opportunities for early retirement, the bridge pension. What are your views on the proposal to recover all the aid granted to the company in order to set up a compensation fund for redundant workers if it continues to put the workers concerned on the street? Finally, I have a question about the impact of restructuring on subcontractors. Have you received any information on this? What measures do you intend to take to avoid a social massacre for them as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u93	Mr De Vuyst, I have a problem. I have received your question in French and I also have a French answer. The question was not put in French until yesterday, just before 11.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u94	Madam Secretary, we are flexible. We're a bilingual party. So you can answer in French.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u95	I will give you the answer in French. It will also be translated by the services. Based on the information provided by the social conciliator of the SPF ETCS that follows the sector, the Renault procedure is still ongoing in the company. On Monday, for example, an extraordinary works council was organised in this context. For the time being, no file has been filed with my administration concerning collective redundancies and the entry into the unemployment system with additional business. As we have already said, negotiations are still under way; the aforementioned conciliator may always be called upon to intervene if the negotiating parties deem it desirable. The number of redundancies that will be carried out is not yet clear, and the impact it will have on employment, particularly among subcontractors, is not yet known. I come to your first question about the state aid that the company has received. I must refer you to the relevant regional ministers. It goes without saying that the negotiating parties have a series of instruments provided by the State to deal with this restructuring in a social way, including, for example, a collective reduction in working time. Where an undertaking notifies the Regional Employment Service of a collective dismissal of at least 10 % of its workforce and is recognised as being under restructuring, on the basis of Article 15 of the Act of 3 May 2007, it may negotiate with the trade unions a collective labour agreement concluded under CTC No. 136 of the CNT. Until the end of this year, this includes the possibility of lowering to 58 the age at which an unemployment benefit with an additional business benefit is available. In addition, in the event of collective dismissal, the employer is obliged to pay special compensation to the workers concerned. The aim is to soften the consequences of collective redundancies somewhat. The relevant rules are found in CTC No. 10 concluded within the National Labour Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u96	Thank you, Madam Secretary. As you say, the negotiations are still under way. The unions are also ready to take further action if it appears that the employer is not willing to go for the maintenance of employment in this site. No economic necessity shows that this establishment should close down. As has just been said, the establishment is financially sound. I do not want to deny you an answer in French either. The workers expect something else from you. Solutions exist. The unions have proposed alternatives, but this does not seem to interest you. Your message will be heard, know it, because the situation is scandalous. Lhoist built his wealth by making his staff work with tension, dust and heavy loads. It is always the same, it becomes really painful: a company is growing thanks to the efforts of the workers. The state gives them subsidies to preserve employment, the firm makes tax evasion and as soon as there is a way to make even more money for the shareholders, we lay off. The losers are always the same: the workers and the state, with the complicity of the latter. Thank you for your answer, which does not provide a solution for the workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-19-55-commissie-ic055x.u97	I would like to thank the Minister for coming and her answers and the committee members for their active participation.
