ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u1	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your new competence in science policy, which you are now taking up and on which I have a number of questions. The first question is about digitisation. Some efforts have been made in recent years in the field of digitalisation. Two major initiatives have also been taken, on the one hand, an initiative on the Long Term Storage Platform of the Science Policy PPS, which is responsible for the long-term preservation of historical-value e-documents and, on the other hand, the e-Archiving as a Service commissioned by the Directorate-General for Digital Transformation of the FOD BOSA, which seeks to develop an archive management system for semi-static archives for the entire federal administration. I therefore have a number of questions for you. Firstly, what about the budget and resources allocated for 2019 to accelerate the digitisation process? Secondly, what is the state of play on digitisation? Which pieces have already been digitized and how many pieces will you digitize in 2019? Thirdly, what is the status of the two projects I have just mentioned? What budget is entered in 2019? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u2	Thank you, Mr van Peteghem, for your question and for your kind words. I am also very happy to be here. Firstly, a second multiannual programme for the digitisation of the collection of the Federal Scientific Institutions and the Film Archive will be launched in 2019. The programme shall continue the activity of the first programme. A budget of EUR 5 230 000 is earmarked for this purpose for 2019. Second, the General National Archives (ARA) and the Koninklijke Bibliotheek (KBR) had nearly 24 million and 6 million digital images of items from their collections, respectively, by the end of 2018. To put that staggering number somewhat in perspective, I note that it is 1,24 % of the ARA paper and parchment collection and 9 % of the KBR collections. The number of digital images made in recent years, i.e. in 2016-2018, internally and externally, is included in a table that can be sent to you after the committee. After all, the table contains a lot of figures. At the end of 2018, just under 17 million components were introduced into the SAM of State Archive Management archiving system by ARA. By the end of 2018, around 210 000 parts were digitised or 1.24 %. This means that the end of digitalisation is far from being in sight. There's another 6.8 million pieces that can be scanned. The KBR's collection has more than 8 million documents, of which 9% has now been digitised. In 2019 it will be about the same number as in 2018. It is therefore about 4 million digital images for ARA and 330 000 digital images and 900 hours of recording for the KBR. As far as your last question is concerned, a long-term custody platform was set up in 2016. It is managed by Atos Video House. I'll give you the budgets. In 2016, it amounted to 92 000 euros, 1 160 000 euros in 2017 and the same amount in 2018. For 2019 there is a budget of 940 000 euros. e-Archiving as a Service is part of the G-Cloud and is funded by the RSZ. We do not have information on the funds allocated to this project. However, we have contacted the general administration of the RSZ. I'll e-mail you the information as soon as I get them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It's interesting to see those numbers. There is therefore much work to be done on digitalisation, but I am pleased that budgets are being provided for these important initiatives to digitise collections and archives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u4	Madam Secretary, the Film Archive has a lot of footage. Its digitisation ensures easy consultation and is also important for the protection of light-sensitive and old works. I have forwarded a number of questions to you on this matter. Perhaps you could give me the numbers, it might be a bit cumbersome to list them all here. I would like to know what budget you are still making available for digitisation in 2019. How many more collection pieces will be digitized?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u5	I will read the whole answer because I do not immediately find the answer to your precise questions. Of course, I can also send you everything by e-mail. You had originally asked about the visitor numbers in 2018 and 2019. In 2018 it involved 108 283 visitors for the Film Archive and 1 310 for the library. The aim for 2019 is 117 500 visitors for the performances and 1 500 for the library. Regarding funding, the Film Archive received 2 876 776 euros from the Science Policy PPS in 2018 for the digitisation of the collection and 568 500 euros from the National Lottery. For 2019, the budget is about the same, namely EUR 2 775 000 from the POD and the same amount from the National Lottery. I will send you the rest of the answer, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u6	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that resources will be provided for these efforts, but I am also, of course, looking forward to the figures you will be passing on, because they will give a clear picture. It is not necessary or useful to mention them here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u7	Madam Minister, I think this is a very important question. It is about the reform that was taking place in the field of science policy. After five years, however, we are still waiting for concrete decisions. Several scientific institutions have an ad interim director, which does not really strengthen the effectiveness of those involved and their institutions. An audit was also carried out at all FWIs. The Court of Auditors also indicated the urgent need for a policy decision in this area. I know, of course, that you are now the third policy officer in this field, and I am certainly not going to cast a stone at you. It is, of course, the case that the Federal Scientific Institutions have remained in the cold in recent years. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the reform of the Federal Scientific Institutions? What steps will be taken in 2019? Secondly, what was the mission of that consultancy company? When will that consultancy company deliver its final report? Can this be delivered to us, too? Thirdly, what is your expectation regarding the timeline for the completion of the rotation of the Science Policy PPS in the FPS Economy? Finally, when will all scientific institutions have a non-observing director and thus a final director? Should they wait for the global reform that is still under way? Or is a decision still being taken in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u8	Mr Van Peteghem, following the amendment of the Royal Decree of 1 February 2000 concerning the material and financial management of the Federal Scientific Institutions, no further decisions were taken by my predecessor. The consultancy contract was not awarded either. Nor were any new decisions made by my predecessor for the inclination of the Science Policy PPS in the FPS Economy. I would like to point out that this dossier is closely linked to the reform of the scientific institutions. As you know, we are no longer able to consider important reforms in current cases. However, I have had a series of meetings with the Federal Scientific Institutions and have asked them to provide a plan for the period of ongoing business. This should enable us to identify the needs of the institutions, which may be affected during this particular period. This may include, for example, the administrative and organisational files which are essential for the functioning of the institutions. As far as your last question is concerned, in view of the current cases, no appointments as Director-General can be made at the moment. That's a file for the next legislature. I am aware of the uncomfortable situation, but I am also convinced of the involvement of these people in the management of their institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, although it is not very hopeful. On the basis of your predecessor's policy papers, I would have thought that much more effort would be made, but today you are telling us that even that consultancy contract has not been awarded. So your predecessor leaves the Federal Scientific Institutions a heavy legacy. You argue that these people are very motivated and live for their institution, but then you see how they are dealt with. After all, your predecessor has not taken any steps to effectively implement this reform. Your answer surprises me, I knew it was bad, but not that it was that bad. I hope that the period of current affairs will soon be over and that we can take further steps for the Federal Scientific Institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u10	Madam Secretary, the federal museums contain a lot of top collections. We store them in cellars, but there is a lot of heritage here. With everything in the museums, archives and storage rooms, it should be possible to do much more for our museums. With all the heritage we have, here in the heart of Europe, much larger numbers of visitors are possible, especially if the various museums were to cooperate and seek synergies in marketing and events, so as to profile themselves nationally and internationally. Madam Secretary, what was the ratio between ticket sales and total revenue per institution in 2018? What were the visitor numbers in 2018 per institution? What are the objectives for 2019? It is again a question of figures, but I would particularly like to call for museums in the centre of our country, in our capital city, to be better supported and developed as institutions that get the number of visitors they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u11	Mr Van Peteghem, for the Royal Museums of Art and History, revenues were a little less than EUR 1.1 million, or 6.22% of the total. I will send you the exact figures by e-mail. The total revenue was EUR 17 500 000. In 2018 there were 260 420 visitors. For 2019, we have set an objective of 285 000 visitors. For the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium, their own income was a little less than 7 million euros, out of a total of a little more than 16 million euros, 42.5 % of the total. There were about 680 000 visitors and we foresee an increase in the number of visitors by 2019 compared to 2018. For the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, revenues from ticket sales amounted to a little more than 1.6 million euros, out of a total of a little less than 35 million euros, i.e. 4.8 %. In the Royal Belgian Institute there were just under 330 000 visitors. The goal is to reach about the same number of visitors in 2019. The Royal Museum of Central Africa reopened its doors in December 2018. Therefore, there are no relevant figures for the institution. I can tell you that the objective for 2019 is between 250 000 and 300 000 visitors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u12	Madam Minister, the figures are, of course, only one. I have also just addressed a policy question to you, with the question of whether synergies are being sought between these different museums, about opportunities for cooperation. After all, I think there is much more to it than is being done today, especially in comparison with international museums, which are also in the capital and which exhibit a similar or even less strong collection. There is much more to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u13	Mr. President, Minister, you recently took over the Science Policy portfolio following the departure of the government's N-VA. A number of projects were under way. In any case, some could not have succeeded before the end of the legislature. However, the remaining few months could lead to progress on other issues. Minister, could you outline your priorities for the next few months with respect to Science Policy? What dossiers in your predecessor's policy note will they be able to complete? Which files will they potentially be carried forward to the next legislature? What is the status of the creation of the Polar Institute? This institution is relatively important in the context of the pacification of certain matters concerning the polar station. Your predecessor's Chief of Staff, Ms. Demir, acted as Interim Director of the Polar Secretariat, following Mr. Touzani's departure. I recall that the circumstances of her departure, by decision of Ms. Demir, were never very clear and that no one ever wanted to comment on this situation. Minister, are you going to call on the former Director of the Secretariat to ensure that it is properly managed? I would also like clarification on the implementation of the ISBL. Have the existing pre-contracts been resumed? What is the status of the transfer of the rest of the polar station to the Belgian State? Depending on your response, I will allow myself to add further comments. In Mrs Demir's projects, there was the Office for Space, which has still not been able to reach a conclusion on financing issues, following the remarks made by the Finance Inspectorate. You are now in charge of both aspects of the dossier - Science Policy and Budget - what do you intend to do to achieve the creation of this organization?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u14	Mr President, Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your questions. In response to your first question, I can tell you that during this particular period of day-to-day business, the ambition is to support the Federal Science Policy as best as possible. This means that where issues can move forward, we are trying to move them forward. In this context, I have invited all federal science institutions (FSIs) to develop a roadmap during day-to-day business, as I mentioned in response to Mr. Van Peteghem. This sheet is to be used to identify the needs of FSEs that may be encountered during this period, such as the need to process job openings, staff appointments, or organizational issues. The work and renovation files under way with the Régie des Bâtiments will also receive special attention as part of this roadmap in order to see, as part of a proactive dialogue with the Régie, how best to advance in the interest of the FSEs, despite this period of day-to-day business. This roadmap is also a way for us to engage constructively with the FSEs and better understand their reality. It is also in this context that I meet each FSE official within their institutions so that they can show us the extent of their activities and their heritage. It is also a way to meet staff, to listen to them. In this dynamic, we have already been able to support the ESFRI research infrastructures of several scientific institutions through funding of 3.4 million. We are currently working closely with BELSPO and the ESF to put in place the actions of the personnel plan that can be undertaken, always during the day-to-day business, because you know that this period limits our scope of action, i.e. job vacancies declarations, appointments, promotions up to the A2-SW2 rank. We are also working on the renewal of the members of the management committees and scientific councils of the FSEs, while these files have been on the side for a long time. With regard to the space component, we are in close contact with the service in charge of preparing for the next ESA ministerial meeting to be held at the end of 2019, so that the dossier to be forwarded to the next government is not delayed. In this context, we also support the administration in its work. Given current affairs, the possibility of carrying out certain projects is, as you know, limited. Thus, some ambitious projects announced by the previous Secretary of State for Science Policy cannot be completed. I am thinking in particular of the integration of BELSPO into another administration or the increased empowerment of ESFs and the creation of an inter-federal space agency. On the other hand, we have been able to move forward on a number of issues raised by Mrs Demir in her time. In addition to what I have already indicated, two new representatives have been appointed to the Airbus platform so that its activities can continue. The platform has already met for the first time last week. We are working with the administration on the implementation of BRAIN-be, the first steps of which will be the appointment of members of the advisory committees and the launching of calls for projects. We are working on the monitoring of the Belgica yard with the BELSPO administration and the Defense. We also worked on the financial stabilization of the von Karman Institute. There have been important concerns since at the end of last year I submitted a dossier to the Council of Ministers on the granting of additional appropriations. We are finalizing the final implementation of BELSPO's move, scheduled for next month. We are finalizing the integration of the Royal Academy of Overseas Sciences into the Royal Observatory of Belgium. We agreed to move the matter through as quickly as possible for discussion in Committee 1. With regard to the issue of works of art and their possible restitution - which is also topical - I have convened a first exploratory working group with the main officials of the FSEs who are affected by this issue. Unfortunately, with regard to the creation of the ISBL, this project will not be possible until the next government is formed. In day-to-day business, it is not possible to create such an AISBL and to appoint individuals. In the meantime, the Polar Secretariat is still in charge of management. Following the resignation of Ms. Demir's two representatives, I appointed two new representatives to the Strategic Board. It is my Chief of Staff who now serves as President of the Strategic Council and the Polar Secretariat. This means, as provided for in the Royal Decree of 20 May 2009, that in the absence of an appointed Director, the President also holds the position of Director. This situation should not continue since, once the BLSI is created, the BLSI will have the opportunity to recruit a director. In the meantime, the management will be carried out by my Chief of Staff, in close cooperation with the Secretariat Accountant and the Finance Inspector whom I have been responsible for following up the case. With regard to the creation of an Space Office, this dossier, whose complexity is not limited to a question of funding alone, will have to be re-discussed by the next government. As you can imagine, such a case cannot be completed during current business. To sum up, day-to-day business prevents us from developing many files, but it does not prevent us from working hand in hand with the FSBs. These institutions must be able to continue to function and, in order to do so, a series of actions must be undertaken, which I am endeavouring to do my best.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u15	Minister, I heard your answer: "Current business, day-to-day management." That's how I synthesize it. This is damaging to the scientific policy of our country, which deserves better. I have also heard your comments on the preparations for the next ministerial session of ESA. If there's a file to follow, it's this one. Many Belgian companies are behind this ministerial session. I'd like to go back to the status of the polar station. You said you had appointed your chief of staff to act on this case. It's disturbing. We find ourselves with a polar secretariat that is another ASBL that receives money from the state via the state budget, with a president who is also the chief of staff of the Minister of Budget. I guess he doesn't have too many problems to agree with himself about the institution's finances! Don't you think there is a governance concern in this situation? In the past, however, there was a lack of a structural director, which had created a kind of political black box where things were not quite clear. The observation is as follows: no director and no own accountant. Let us remember that all contracts have been taken over by the International Polar Foundation (IPF), that the ISBL, as you say, is not constituted and will not be. From then on, we continue with a past structure that has caused enormous problems. Finally, there was still a transfer of ownership between the Belgian State and the new AISBL. No transfer has been made. There is no control of the Belgian State as such. Let us remember that there have been some problems in the past with respect to public procurement. There are many questions, Minister. I would like to add more and I will come back to you because things are not clear, especially since a scientific mission is announced for the polar station. There is no scientific committee, while it was planned. How was the project validated to send these scientists to the polar station? It comes to my mind that many researchers had applied to go there; they did not go there. The polar station – perhaps its role – spoke to foreign researchers while researchers were patient at our universities. Minister, your answer is asking more questions, if you will allow me to speak. We find ourselves facing a problem that is not new since we have known it with your predecessor. For the time being, there are clear concerns about conflict of interest and management control difficulties in the existing structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u16	Mr de Lamotte, I thank you for this "circumstantiated" reply, if you will allow me to qualify it as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u17	Mr President, I do not object to a last reaction from the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall reply later to other questions that you may ask. Having said that, I confirm that I have answered all the questions you have just asked me, with the greatest possible precision. I am very pleased to remain at the disposal of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-19-54-commissie-ic1041x.u19	Mr President, if you could set a date on the committee's agenda before the end of March, so that we can have the pleasure of hearing from the minister on these issues.
