ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u1	Mr President, Minister, this question dates back some time ago. On 28 July, a report was published by the Ethics Office of UNRWA, the UN Organisation for Palestinian Refugees. The report was devastating for the organization's management team. They are accused of abuse of power, of nepotism and of creating a toxic working environment. You announced that, following the report, additional funding of EUR 5.35 million would be frozen for this year. The basic financing of €6.25 million had already been paid out. When Donald Trump cut US funding to UNRWA, you were right to consider that the Palestinians should not be the victims of this and you increased the Belgian contribution to the organisation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, the accusations in the report are obviously very serious. Have you requested further information on the state of play within UNRWA? Secondly, under what circumstances do you consider that the contribution to UNRWA can be repaid? Thirdly, how will you ensure that the ordinary Palestinians, many of whom depend on UNRWA, are not the biggest victims of the mismanagement that came to light? Do you have contacts with your European or other colleagues to agree on the financing of UNRWA?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u2	Mr De Vriendt, this question dates from a while ago, but in the meantime a number of additional matters have taken place. A late answer is not always a worse answer. First of all, I want to make it clear that I continue to believe in the mandate of UNRWA. We have done so in the past, and I will remain in that position. UNRWA has an important role to play, including through the organisation of education for Palestinian youth. In my view, education is the best dam one can have against radicalisation and religious fanaticism. That is why UNRWA is a partner organisation in Belgian development policy and indeed I increased the Belgian contribution to UNRWA after President Trump had decided to stop the American contribution. As I said in New York at the United Nations General Assembly, to be committed to the UNRWA mandate does not mean that we are complainant about UNRWA governance. The accusations are indeed very serious. There have been rumors for a long time that UNRWA has been badly managed. These accusations, if confirmed, are now making this very concrete. Secretary General Guterres of the United Nations has been aware of the allegations since December 2018. In March 2019, he ordered an investigation by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services. This investigation is still ongoing. Because a whistleblower regretted that it all took so long, he or she made this story public at the end of July through Al Jazeera. I would like to stress here that the United Nations Staff Regulations expressly allow this to happen. I too am sorry that it is all taking so long, because this is causing a lot of damage to UNRWA. Only after the case was made public and donors began to stir, has Secretary General Guterres appointed a new Deputy Commissioner General at UNRWA. One might wonder why he hasn't done that before. Four countries have decided to put their payments on hold pending the results of the investigation. These are Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and New Zealand. But there are many more countries that are worried. Witnessed the letter sent by a number of countries on the Dutch initiative to Secretary General Guterres, asking that the investigation be completed as soon as possible and that the results be communicated transparently. That letter was also signed by my colleagues from Sweden and Luxembourg and by the Flemish Government. I have so far taken the following initiatives and had the following contacts. On 1 August, I decided not to pay out two outstanding amounts for the time being. Belgium has already paid its fixed contribution for 2019, i.e. €6.25 million. An additional contribution of EUR 5.35 million has already been committed but has not been paid out. This amounts to EUR 4.35 million for the Education programme in Emergencies and EUR 1 million for the programme in Syria. I have made several phone calls with my Dutch colleague Sigrid Kaag. I also talked to her about this in New York two weeks ago. On 26 September I attended a meeting in New York chaired by Secretary-General Guterres, attended by all donors at ministerial level. All donors emphasised a rapid investigation and transparent communication. I pointed out to him in an intervention that we are accountable to Parliament and public opinion. I would like nothing more than to be able to pay out the outstanding amounts in the short term, but this can only be done after the results of the investigation have been published and, if the allegations are confirmed, after Secretary-General Guterres has taken the appropriate measures. He assured us he would, too. I also noticed that no UNRWA representative was invited to this meeting, which I find very significant. Members of my cabinet met a fellow countryman on 28 August who worked as a special advisor in the cabinet of the UNRWA Commissioner General. This interlocutor fully confirmed the allegations of mismanagement, nepotism and abuse of power. By the way, that's why he quit his job. In his view, however, there is no corruption with the funds for the programmes in the field. The salaries and travel budgets of UNRWA management come from the UN's regular budget, not from the UNRWA budget. Members of my cabinet, together with the interim chairman of the Executive Committee of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, met on 18 September with the new Deputy Secretary-General, who was appointed by Secretary-General Guterres. The meeting also called for urgency and transparency. My cabinet staff keep the impression that the accusations are certainly not unfounded. I am aware that these accusations are being seized by a number of countries that would like to see UNRWA disappear. We must ensure that we do not play into their hands with our attitude, but that does not mean that we can simply cover the accusations with the cloak of love. If there is damage to UNRWA........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, I have three points of information. Firstly, the bilateral consultation between our country and UNRWA takes place in Jerusalem on 12 November. The Belgian delegation will be chaired by the interim chairman of the Management Committee of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I'm considering asking one of my cabinet members to take part in the consultation. Secondly, the next UNRWA Advisory Commission meeting will be held in Jordan on 25 and 26 November. The Advisory Commission consists of 28 donors, including Belgium. Finally, later this year, UNRWA's mandate should be renewed by the United Nations. The opponents of UNRWA will undoubtedly use the scandal to question the mandate. Belgium will advocate a renewal of the mandate. Hopefully the UN investigation will be completed by then and Secretary General Guterres will have taken appropriate measures if necessary. If that happens or if the accusations are convincingly refuted, I will, of course, immediately order the payment of the outstanding amounts I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u3	Minister, may I ask you to slow down your reading, because unfortunately the services are unable to follow because of a technical problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the interesting answer. I believe that the Belgian position, with all its nuances, is the right one. Mismanagement, misuse of resources and nepotism must be taken absolutely seriously. That is our duty to the taxpayer. However, UNRWA is an organisation which plays a very important role for refugees and Palestinians in particularly difficult conditions on the ground. I agree with you that an investigation report should be drawn up as soon as possible so that it becomes clear exactly what is going on. So we have to wait for the research to come to an end, but if 2019 were to end without any clarity, it might be possible to consider using these funds in a different way so that they would benefit the Palestinian population. I am of course in favour of a very rapid investigation with you, so that we can get the report soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u5	Mr President, Minister, in April 2017, the House adopted a resolution on the Belgian Food Security Fund (BSF). In particular, the Commission recommended that the Government allocate the specific resources of the National Lottery (€17.5 million) to food security under the integrated policy and allocate 15% of the Belgian official aid budget for development to agriculture and food security. It was also intended to ensure that efforts to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including Goal 2 on hunger, food security, nutrition and sustainable agriculture, were reported to and monitored by the House in a transparent manner. Minister, could you please indicate how you have followed up on these recommendations since then? For 2019, as of 30 June, what share of official development assistance has been devoted to this issue and specifically to family farming? What about the rest of 2019? Finally, what is the focus on food safety within the priority areas that you have defined since the disappearance of the FBSA?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u6	Mr Ben Achour, I note that you are taking back the role Mrs Grovonius once played on this subject on which she asked me a lot of questions. The cooperation policy I have pursued since 2014 is based on two major political axes: first, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and, second, a human rights-based approach. In May 2017, I approved a new strategy on agriculture and food security entitled "From subsistence agriculture to agricultural entrepreneurship". With this strategy, the Belgian Cooperation wants to encourage farmers to become entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship in agriculture goes further than subsistence agriculture and also aims to improve the incomes of farmers and their families. The new approach focuses mainly on supporting agricultural entrepreneurship aimed, as a matter of priority, at an already more efficient category of farmers with a significant growth capacity, with the aim of achieving greater profitability and a better match to market demand. For example, in cooperation programmes in Mali, Niger and Guinea, food security is taken into account in agriculture and livestock projects. I do not yet have definitive figures. The share of agriculture and food security in Belgian official development assistance for 2018 is around 12%. In this calculation, we must take into account our relatively large non-earmarked and multilateral contributions and their share of food security. These are determined on the basis of the detailed reports provided directly by these multilateral organizations to the OECD, which makes them public, after a statistical quality check and control. This implies that to date, 2018 data are not yet available. Finally, we do not have figures on the extent to which the budget for agriculture and food security has been used for family farming, since the classifications currently proposed by the OECD do not contain categories that identify this type of agriculture. In 2018-2019, during an evaluation of the programmes of the Belgian Food Security Fund, the integration of the theme of food security and the multi-stakeholder approach was made. The report will be available in November 2019 and will be presented to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will be waiting for the report to be published to come back to the subject. I recall that the removal of the Fund, announced in 2015 for 2020, was described by the CNCD as "false good idea". The latter considered that, given the disappearance of the Fund's 25 million funds, in addition to the austerity cure suffered by the Cooperation under the previous government, Belgium would necessarily have difficulties in supporting the efforts of the partner countries. A concern is expressed here, and I agree with my excellent predecessors on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u8	Mr.President, Minister, according to a recent study by the World Resources Institute (WRI) on August 6, 2019, the planet is moving towards a major water shortage. By 2030, a quarter of the world's population will experience severe water shortages with indirect consequences for public health and social unrest. The reasons for this crisis go beyond drought. Indeed, thanks to new hydrological models, WRI has been able to show that water abstraction has more than doubled since the 1960s due to increasing demand and will only increase. This crisis will mainly affect the major cities and countries of the Middle East and North Africa. Belgium will not be spared, however, since it is ranked 23rd out of 164 in the WRI classification, and is in the category of "high water shortage". Finally, this crisis will have many repercussions, such as the massive influx of climate refugees due to drought or rising waters. As water is an environmental, societal, economic and geopolitical issue, it is our duty to take on board this unfortunately forgotten issue by Western countries. Minister, what initiatives can our country take to ensure that the international community takes real action to combat this unprecedented water crisis, particularly with regard to the sustainable development goals and, in particular, to the sixth of them? Within the framework of Belgian development cooperation, and in particular with our partner countries, what have you undertaken to help the countries most seriously affected by water stress in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u9	Madam Member, thank you for your question. The achievement of sustainable development objectives will involve major investments in the water sector. According to a 2018 World Water Council report, there is an infrastructure investment deficit of $1 billion per year to achieve the sustainable development goals by 2030, including between 15 and 30 per cent in the water sector. In this and other areas, our country is part of a multilateral and European approach. Belgium signed the Protocol on Water and Health of the United Nations Economic and Social Council in 1999 and ratified it in 2004. In 2018, Belgium contributed to the preparation of a European Union reference document entitled "Ensuring the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation in developing countries". Sanitation will become increasingly important in the area of water management and access. Access to improved sanitation services could improve health. The treatment of liquid and solid waste is also crucial to avoid deterioration of water quality. At Belgian level, the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid has taken two concrete initiatives. First, a research project with universities in the framework of cooperation with VLIR and ARES aimed at mapping sectors and identifying opportunities for Belgian water players in international development. Secondly, the creation of an informal water platform bringing together a large number of organisations: NGOs, universities, regional institutions, departments as well as the Belgian Development Agency Enabel and the private sector. Our country spends an average of 3 per cent of its official development assistance to the water and sanitation sector through Enabel, non-governmental sectors and international organizations. These include various projects such as access to drinking water, building infrastructure and distribution networks, increasing production capacity, integrated management, improving quality and strengthening the skills of the actors involved in water management. We support agriculture. Belgium is involved in projects to store and transport water to crops and to protect agricultural areas from flooding. Enabel allows water and sanitation projects in about ten African countries. In addition, many non-governmental actors, supported by Belgian cooperation, are very active in water and sanitation programmes in the countries of the South. University cooperation programmes improve the capacity and strengthen the South's academic actors to implement scientific solutions to the water problem in their country. Belgium also contributes through multilateral cooperation to the global community's efforts to alleviate the global water crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear from the elements that you give support, if only moral, to NGOs active in development cooperation. That's something I support, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u11	Mr Minister, this question concerns the Feronia case, on which you have already been questioned several times, both in Parliament and by civil society. Feronia is a Canadian palm oil producer in the DRC, financially supported by the Belgian Development Bank BIO Invest and other international financial institutions. This company has been making a long talk about it, both for problems of the legality of its land titles – which come from Unilever and which would have been acquired in a contentious way during the colonial period – and for its local practices in terms of respect for workers' rights and respect for its social commitments, denounced through complaint mechanisms and through reports. According to several of our sources, on 21 July, a member of the Congolese environmental and human rights organisation RIAO-RDC, Joël Imbangola Lokwa, was reportedly murdered by a security officer of Feronia. Minister, given BIO's involvement in Feronia's funding, there are several questions. Does Belgium support investigations into the disappearance of Joël Imbangola Lokwa in the DRC so that those responsible are effectively tried? What measures are actually being taken to avoid conflicts between BIO-funded companies, specifically Feronia, and local communities? Does Belgium support a mediation process to resolve land disputes in the DRC? It's not just Feronia that's a problem. Whenever a large company is established, there are difficulties with local populations. What follow-up does Belgium provide with regard to Feronia's commitments in terms of the development of social programmes and infrastructure and the revision of these programmes in collaboration with the affected communities? What steps is Belgium taking to ensure that Feronia can return illegally occupied land to local communities? Will the Belgian company BIO withdraw from Feronia and demand repayment of the loan granted in case of non-compliance with the requirements and perpetuation of abuses of human rights on local communities? Unless we make a mistake, this refund is already late since the first instalment was due in September 2019 and this is still not the case. Minister, do you support the revision of the law on the creation of the Belgian Investment Corporation for developing countries to prohibit investment in agricultural projects involving the purchase or rental of large-scale land?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u12	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. I will quote from a letter I sent on 28 August to Mrs Els Hertogen, who is the Executive Director of 11.11.11, and to Arnaud Zacharie, who is the Secretary General of the CNCD-11.11.11. "Madam General Manager, Secretary General, I am following an e-mail sent to me on July 26, 2019, which you co-signed, concerning the tragic death of Mr. Joël Imbangola Lokwa on July 21. Given the context, I prefer to speak directly to you who direct the cupolas of non-governmental organizations. First of all, I wish to express my deep sadness at the death of Mr. Lokwa. If you are in contact with his family, friends or colleagues, I would be grateful if you would convey my condolences to them. Following your email, I requested information from the Belgian investment company for the developing countries BIO, and from the Belgian embassy in Kinshasa. A few days later, I received the first information, moreover confirmed in recent weeks by various sources. This is a tragic incident involving a PHC surveillance officer, Mr. Ebuka, but without any involvement of PHC or Feronia. All eyewitnesses confirm that an argument broke out when the victim, Mr. Lokwa, refused Mr. Ebuka's nephew to sit on his boat. After the departure of the boat, the protagonists, including Mr. Ebuka, who had joined the boat, and who was, at the time of the events, on annual leave in his village, came to their hands. Mr. Ebuka shot the victim violently, causing him to fall into the water and drown. Mr. Lokwa's body was found on 24 July. His burial took place just after, when Mr. Ebuka had fainted in nature. According to the report made to me by the Belgian Embassy, this is a private matter, which does not detract from its tragic nature. On the spot, no one, not even the police, has established a link between the tragic death of Mr. Lokwa and PHC or Feronia. PHC was not contacted by the local police or the local community in this regard. We can have different opinions on the relevance and legitimacy of the investment in Feronia PHC, and the loan granted by BIO to Feronia. It is clear that, in discussions in previous years, different opinions have been expressed on this subject. Does that mean that all the means are good to discredit PHC and Feronia? A direct link is made between a private affair, which is certainly terrible, and Feronia PHC and BIO. If one follows this reasoning, any employer would have a responsibility for the slippages of its employees, even if they take place in the private sphere or independently of their place of work. The on-site information is quite easy to obtain, a fortiori about the initiators and signatories of the letter sent to me on 26 July 2019. Moreover, according to the Belgian Embassy in Kinshasa, it contains several factual counter-truths. In addition, no one on the spot links a rixe that went wrong and ended tragically with Feronia PHC. The initiators and signatories of the letter of 26 July 2019 do not hesitate to do so. As for knowing on the basis of what information they do it, it remains a riddle for me. We can have differing political opinions. But this kind of debate, in my view, requires a minimum of serenity. Under no circumstances can we rely on news that is not established." End of quote. In conclusion, I am ready to discuss the relevance of the investment in Feronia by BIO. We've already done it several times. It should not be forgotten, however, that Feronia is the only employer and provider of basic social services in this region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I agree with you that there are remarks to be made about certain elements of what Feronia is doing, but we must not forget that it is the only one, in a region where it is really not easy to get investments. I am prepared to have this debate, but I think we still need to be careful not to base it on information that is currently incorrect. I have the feeling of an instrumentalization of a man's death for political purposes. I think that should be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is entirely legitimate on your part to warn us against any form of instrumentalization of the death of this activist. That's your right. We believe that this dossier is instrumentalised and that not all the light has been made. Many sources of information diverge from those that have been relayed by Feronia directly to you or to BIO. We know the case is still under way. What motivates us to remain on guard is this new wave of criminalization in Feronia plantations adjacent to the murder site. Community leaders who challenged Feronia's activities were arrested and imprisoned most recently. One example is the traditional leader of the Mwingi community who has been in detention since mid-September and others who have been arrested, sometimes during the night, for their militant activities. This therefore goes beyond that person's case. This is part of a wave of criminalization of activists in this region that insecures us and pushes us to continue to question you on this issue. From a political point of view, you say that you are open to a more fundamental debate on Feronia's investment. We will return to you first with written questions, especially about property rights. We would like to have access to some documents. We will also ask you about the repayment deadlines. As I said in my question, the first deadlines are exceeded and Feronia is not in a position to repay. We would therefore like to know what will happen. Contracts include clauses to be complied with. If they're not, then BIO will have to position itself. At the macro-political level, we will still have the opportunity to discuss with you the relevance of investing in multinationals. When it comes to supporting food and local agriculture, it raises fundamental questions. We will be happy to come back to this, in addition to the specific monitoring of the death this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u14	Madame de Laveleye, you say in your reply that what happened is part of a wave of violence in which Feronia PHC would be involved. I repeat what I said in my reply: on the spot, no one, not even the police, establishes a link between the tragic death of Mr Lokwa and PHC or Feronia. Feronia PHC was not contacted by the local police or the local community. You make the statements you want, you mention elements in your reply that only reflect your opinion. As far as I am concerned, I will be very clear: I have no justification for what you have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u15	Mr Minister, we have access to information that does not go in the same direction, which is why we do not stop at the detailed response you gave to the NGO platforms at the end of August. We continue to receive testimonies that do not go in that direction. There have also been arrests in the context of this case, which is therefore not closed. Your services must continue to investigate, as the opportunities for activists in the field to file complaints are not optimal. [[Having said that, I have heard your warning.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u16	Mr. President, Minister, the climate issue has been at the centre of the 74th General Assembly of the United Nations that you attended. In this context, you have participated in numerous meetings and exchanges, with particular emphasis on several of the Sustainable Development Goals dear to our country and its development cooperation. You have also had discussions with partner organizations of our Cooperation, such as UNICEF, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Global Fund. Could you, Minister, indicate the main positions taken by Belgium during this General Assembly in connection with your department? Has Belgium made specific financial commitments? We were also learning, and we have already discussed it in committee with other members of the government, that the Prime Minister has announced his intention to double the Belgian contribution to the fight against global warming and to raise this amount to more than EUR 160 million. My group obviously welcomes this intention, but can you tell me whether your department will be involved or whether it will be additional federal funds so that our country's stronger commitment to climate issues will not be at the expense of the other development goals, which are also essential?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u17	Mr Ben Achour, the ministerial week on the occasion of the 74th General Assembly focused, to a large extent, on the need to speed up the implementation of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals. The Secretary-General of the United Nations wants more ambition and concrete action. At the various summits that took place during this ministerial week (on climate, on the Sustainable Development Goals, on financing for development), he called for a decade of ambitious actions. Belgium supports this approach. In this context, I stressed the importance of the active engagement of the private sector, civil society and citizens. Indeed, no single government can achieve the Sustainable Development Goals and governments will not be able to meet all the challenges on their own. I also argued for linking the various Sustainable Development Goals. At my meeting with UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore, I highlighted our commitment to sexual and reproductive health issues. I have been assured that this is and will remain an important element of the agenda, particularly in UNICEF country programmes. At the meeting with UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner, I stressed that Belgium, as a committed lessor, remained committed to an effective United Nations system to support the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. The central role of UNDP in this area was emphasized. Finally, in my meeting with Mr.Peter Sands, Executive Director of the Global Fund, I confirmed our ambition of €15 million for 2020, as foreseen in the 2017-2020 framework agreement. Unfortunately, the current business period prevents me from making longer-term commitments. In his speech at the United Nations summit, the Prime Minister indicated that he wished to propose to Parliament that our country's contribution to the fight against climate change be doubled. A resolution on this matter is currently being discussed in the House. With regard to a parliamentary initiative, I prefer not to comment on its content. I am convinced that ambitious climate action can strengthen the development and economic growth of developing countries. Conversely, climate inaction may lock them in ways that make them even more vulnerable. Developed and developing countries must work together to make their societies resilient to climate change and low emissions. Without this, the development gains of recent decades could simply be lost and the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2020-2030 agenda would never be achieved. The people of the poorest and least developed countries, in particular, will need continued support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u18	Minister, thank you for your responses to the first part of my speech. Regarding the second, that is to say, the doubling of Belgium's intervention – 160 million – I mean that you do not commit yourself to a government in day-to-day affairs. I understand that. But as we have already said, we will pay particular attention to the fact that this doubling does not take place at the expense of cooperation. Indeed, development cooperation policies also enable, by other means, these objectives to be achieved in the fight against global warming. We are convinced that one cannot be done at the expense of the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u19	Minister, this question will be of a more general nature. On 25 September, the CNCD published its annual report on Belgian development aid. There are several points that need to be made, but I shall take up only three of them, which have attracted my attention in particular. The first concerns the amount of aid. The 2019 report shows that Belgium remains far from the international target of allocating 0.7 per cent of its gross national income (GNI) to development aid. In 2018, 0.44% of GNI was allocated to development aid, placing Belgium below the European average. The OECD even estimates that we would be 0.43%. The second finding relates to "phantom aid", i.e. debt relief or costs in terms of receiving refugees, administrative costs or receiving foreign students. These amounts remained significant in 2018. Only the reception costs of asylum seekers are equivalent to 11% of Belgian public aid in our territory. Since 2015, thanks to ghost aid, Belgium has become the first beneficiary of its development aid. The third observation concerns the blending - the mechanism for raising private funds through the provision of public money. Encouraged since 2014, it still presents major challenges: no concentration in the least developed countries (LDCs) - according to the OECD, only 30 per cent of the private funds mobilized by our country are earmarked for them - lack of support for local businesses and, on the other hand, support for non-priority sectors. For example, private-sector-oriented public money supports European companies - in particular the extractive sector and financial services - rather than agriculture or health. In addition, it is mainly injected into emerging countries. Minister, my questions are as follows. First of all, what are your prognosis about the percentage of our GNI allocated to official development assistance for this year? Will the announced decrease be confirmed? Secondly, how do you explain that the blending as currently applied is not geared solely to supporting local enterprises active in LDCs and, mainly, in priority sectors of cooperation? Do you think it is possible to introduce stricter criteria for granting subsidies to the private sector? Finally, how do you explain that Belgium is one of the seven countries in the world whose expenses for receiving asylum seekers recorded in ODA account for more than 10% of their total aid? In other words, these hospitality expenses are higher than the government cooperation managed by Enabel. Do you think it is possible to extract them from the calculation of official development assistance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u20	Minister, we have also read that report. We can only conclude from the figures that Belgium did not do so well in the previous legislature. This is evident not only from the figures themselves, but also from the criticism recently voiced by collective civil society. In 2010, Belgium was still among the best pupils in the OECD class, with 0.64% of GNI, almost the statutory target of 0.7 %. But since then, that percentage has fallen dramatically, by one third. It now amounts to 0.43% of GNI. That is even below the OECD average. Can you explain why that is? What is the motivation to ignore the percentage of 0,7% of GNI laid down in Belgian legislation? The current 0.43 % is an insufficient amount. Of these, 11% is spent on the reception of refugees in Belgium. Three former OECD officials have written an open letter condemning this. They are talking about ghost aid that makes Belgium the main recipient of its own development aid since 2015. Can you explain how this practice contributes to the objective of our development aid? Why is this item of expenditure booked under Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u21	First of all, I will talk about the accounting debate. We do not apply the rules ourselves, it is the OECD that applies the rules for us. There are indeed people who are critical of this, but it is the OECD that applies the rules. It is not us who compile some sort of phantom accounting, the OECD categorizes the expenditure we do. You are asking why Belgium accounts for so much. If we compare with other countries, it is because Belgium receives a lot of refugees, which I defend. In doing so, it is not fair to say that a form of ghost accounting is being carried out. We use the rules as they are today. Should we consider changing them over time? Maybe. But, for the time being, we can only apply the rules currently in force. There is another important point: this is expenditure in Belgium for shelter, but it does not take away money from the aid that goes to the South. Some countries, e.g. Sweden, have a method of accounting whereby the percentage of ODA is fixed. If part of that ODA goes to care in its own country, it reduces the amount intended for abroad. This is not the case in Belgium: if we do a lot of reception in Belgium, it does not have any impact on the budget spent in the countries on the ground. The way in which accounting is done is determined by the OECD. Whether this should be looked at in a different way in the long term is a discussion which we must have, but which is not so simple either. In my view, it is wrong to say that the investments we make in Belgium in terms of reception do not have any influence on our policy of development cooperation. I'm going to go into more detail about the questions you've asked. According to preliminary estimates and on the basis of the data currently available, Belgian political aid for development (ODA) is expected to reach 0.42 % of gross national income in 2019, compared with 0.44 % in 2018. This is a slight decrease compared to 2018. This slight decline is due to the current business environment that we have known since the end of 2018. The budget for 2019 has not been voted and since then we have been working with provisional twelfths and bimonthly or quarterly instalments. In this context, new initiatives or multi-annual funding are not possible, even if these are clearly relevant interventions. I give you two examples. At the time of the renewal of the capital of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Belgium was able to commit itself only for the year 2020 and not for the period 2020-2022, as all other donors did. Another example, in autumn 2018, Belgium was invited by the World Health Organization and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to join an ambitious programme to eradicate the five tropical diseases in Africa. I had agreed and planned a contribution of €5 million in the 2019 budget. But this budget was not voted on. So I had to give up this collaboration. These are two examples among dozens. In addition, during current business, each expenditure must be approved by the Council of Ministers, which increases the administrative procedure and causes delays in the implementation of the budget. Hospitality expenses for asylum-seekers recorded as ODA are expected to decrease and to account for about 6% of ODA in 2019. This is a one-third decrease compared to 2018. During the years 2015-2017, the reception costs of asylum seekers accounted for more than 10% of Belgian ODA. This shows that the migration pressure to Belgium decreased between 2018 and 2019. The exclusion of these costs from the ODA calculation is not currently on the table in the OECD Development Assistance Committee framework. We strictly apply the OECD rules in this area, as I said in my introduction. In addition to traditional official development assistance, additional funding, which is considered necessary to achieve the sustainable development goals by 2030, amounts to $2,500 billion per year. Mobilizing the private sector is therefore seen as an indispensable source of funding. It is with this in mind that Belgian cooperation develops a strategy of involvement of the private sector. Increasing attention is being paid by Belgium to the financial blending (blending) instruments that are generally understood here as mechanisms for raising private funds for sustainable development through public money. For example, public investment in a private fund providing preferential guarantees and loans to agricultural SMEs based in fragile countries can have a significant impact on agriculture and food security, although initially in the financial services sector. Similarly, subsidies in the renewable energy sector can be used to equip farms to improve their performance while reducing their energy consumption. One of the main specific instruments of Belgian development cooperation that allows to tackle the strengthening of the local private sector is the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries or BIO. The aim of this society is to invest directly or indirectly in the development of the local private sector. The main intervention logic is to strengthen the local private sector by improving access to finance. BIO has the power to act in a list of 52 countries, with a particular focus on the partner countries of Development Cooperation. In order to better match the challenge of strengthening the local private sector in the least developed countries or in fragile countries, since its amendment in 2018, the BIO Act has allowed investments to be made that have a lower return and a higher development impact. Private public investment funds may also be set up under that law. BIO currently handles a first SDG fund of EUR 30 million, of which the private sector has contributed EUR 22 million. The Business Partnership Facility is another instrument of Belgian Development Cooperation in the framework of that approach and strategy. The grants granted to the private sector through that facility relate to projects which support cooperation between the private sector and other institutional or non-governmental actors, giving priority to the scale-up of local businesses. The instrument is mainly intended for SMEs and cooperatives that do not have enough guarantees to access bank loans. Finally, according to the CNCD report, subsidising Belgian or international companies by blending is contradictory to one of the priority objectives of Belgian development cooperation, in particular to support the local private sector in developing countries. I don't share that opinion. On the basis of precise conditions, subsidies granted to Belgian or international companies can support the private sector in developing countries through investments that help local companies directly or indirectly. Without these blending mechanisms, local companies would not be able to have these investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u22	Minister, thank you very much for your specific answers. In relation to your introduction and your response to the so-called "ghost" aid, you say that it is an OECD rule that allows it to count in ODA. That is indeed the case. Now we don't have to follow that rule. Luxembourg, for example, has chosen to remove this type of fee from its ODA calculation. We believe that this would be something interesting to be perfectly transparent about the precise use of our ODA, which tends to drastically decrease. This is an initiative that you and our government can also bring to the OECD level. We would like that to go in that direction. As far as the fall was concerned, it was suspected that in 2019, there would be a further decrease. Routine business is of course a very relevant reason to stress, but it is not the only one. However, we have been in a downward trend for a long time, well before our day-to-day business. I don't think we can just incriminate current affairs in the decline in the share of ODA. Finally, in relation to the private sector, we believe that this is a very interesting tool for supporting the economy in the poorest countries, but there must be very strict conditions in terms of the priority of the sectors and in terms of actors who can have access to them. In this regard, it is thought that there is still much to be gained in the years to come. This was even raised this morning at the time of the hearing with the special assessor who mentioned the need to continue this reflection at the level of BIO in particular but not only. We will continue to do this work with you on thinking about blending and supporting the private sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say that this 11 percent does not affect the budget spent in the countries on the ground. I find that very interesting, and we will look into that further. Yet, in our opinion, this smells like savings. We do not think it is normal for Belgium, one of the richest countries in the world, to save on the hood of the poorest countries. We will continue to work with the PVDA to raise the budget for development cooperation, certainly up to the legal 0.7%. We believe that this is our duty, especially in view of the fact that our wealth is largely the result of historical colonial looting and unfair trade with those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u24	Mr President, Minister, following the candidacy of President Nkurunziza for a third presidential term in 2015, Belgium's position was clear: to suspend part of the aid intended to support the Burundian electoral process. Initially, this announcement was welcomed as President Nkurunziza's candidacy was contrary to the Arusha peace accords and the Burundian Constitution. Similarly, Belgium's suspension of aid to the Burundian police was considered indispensable, since Belgian public money could not be used to finance a police force that publicly violated human rights, killing peaceful demonstrators and prosecuting human rights defenders. However, Belgium's firm position has been followed by little conclusive results and a political stalemate, the effects of which are still being felt today. Minister, how is the situation on the ground regarding direct bilateral aid evolving? Is it still there? If so, in what form? Many Belgian-funded NGOs have also withdrawn from Burundi. Has all the funds allocated to them been redistributed? New elections will be scheduled for 2020. Does Belgium intend to support civic education programmes in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u25	Mr Ben Achour, the cooperation programme with Burundi 2010-2013 is still the ongoing government cooperation programme. The political crisis in that country had directly affected the implementation of governmental cooperation with Burundi. I have taken a number of decisions, including interrupting the preparation of a new programme of cooperation, halting support for Burundian police and justice, suspending support for central ministries and ending institutional support for Burundian State organizations. The means of government cooperation have been reoriented towards direct support for Burundian populations and human rights. These reorientations have been implemented through Enabel's grant agreements with NGOs. Reorientated cooperation actions have thus been able to continue despite the difficulties they face. Cooperation interventions in the social sectors, which are less politically sensitive, manage to take place more or less as planned. Burundi faces significant population growth, a very young population, low-performing subsistence agriculture, a high rate of population inactivity, anemic economic growth with an underdeveloped private sector and climate and environmental threats. I have therefore just agreed to a reprogramming of the budgetary resources of 25 million, which would allow the intervention of the government cooperation under way to be extended. Otherwise, cooperation in Burundi would cease completely, even in the social sectors, owing to a lack of resources. The conditions for concluding a new cooperation program can only be decided by a full-fledged federal government. In October 2018, the Burundian government suspended the activities of foreign NGOs. Several Belgian organisations have closed their offices in Burundi, but continue to support civil society by collaborating abroad with their local partners. Only the NGO Humanity & Inclusion – Handicap International ceased all its activities on site on 31 December. Existing regulations allow the funds originally provided for one intervention to be redistributed to another intervention. For example, for Humanity & Inclusion, funds not used in Burundi – or €1.77 million – have been allocated to other parts of their programme in Benin, Rwanda and the DRC. At this stage, Belgium has not planned to support civic education programmes in preparation for the elections. Moreover, Burundi has not applied for international assistance in the electoral process. On the other hand, we support the European programme to strengthen democratic culture and the rule of law in Burundi, although it will be difficult to implement. Although the 2020 general elections – presidential, parliamentary and local – offer little prospect for change, it is imperative to contribute to the strengthening of civil society and media actors and thus to allow for a reversal of authoritarian tendencies, and thus a peaceful transition. To this end, it is important to support civil society as an actor in democratic life and in its monitoring role, in order to promote an improvement in the rule of law and the fundamental principles of democracy in Burundi. This is exactly the approach of the European programme to strengthen democratic culture and the rule of law in Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I share your objectives of strengthening democracy in a context that seems very worrying. Indeed, there are signs that the Burundian State is collapsing and sinking into a lasting democratic, social, health and humanitarian crisis. Nevertheless, we see some glimmers of hope as negotiations seem to begin between the Burundian power and the opposition. In addition, Burundi has just renamed an ambassador to Belgium. I would also point out that France has noted the failure of its sanctions policy and has resumed direct cooperation with that country. This initiative must inform our thinking for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u27	Minister, the security situation in Burkina Faso is becoming increasingly serious. Recently, Burkina Faso's Foreign Minister, Alpha Barry, said: "There is not a day, not a week without new victims." Burkina Faso has been caught for four and a half years in a spiral of violence attributed to jihadist armed groups, some affiliated with Al-Qaeda and others with the Islamic State group. For several months now, the northern part of Burkina Faso has been under attack, the logic of which seems to be emerging in the eyes of the experts. The Sahel region, north of Burkina Faso, is a strategic crossroads. Located on the border with Mali and Niger, this region is separated from the capital Ouagadougou by only a few hundred kilometers. Burkina Faso is now the last lock before reaching coastal countries such as Togo, Benin and Côte d'Ivoire. This lock now appears very fragile. This violence has led to a humanitarian crisis, with nearly 300,000 displaced persons fleeing the north and east to seek refuge in the south, where jihadist pressure is less severe. The jihadist attacks have also fueled intercommunal violence. About 2,000 schools are closed. Since 2015, Burkina Faso has become one of the partner countries of Belgian Cooperation. Minister, in this context, how is the implementation of Enabel's bilateral cooperation program going? How do the CNGs manage to set up their programs in such a context of insecurity? What are the returns of our diplomatic representation on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u28	Dear colleague, the cooperation programme approved by the Joint Commission on 21 November 2017, covering the period 2019-2023, is being implemented in the Central-East region, two of which are not affected by major insecurity problems. The program was officially launched on June 21, 2019. An intervention of the 2016 start-up programme is located in the eastern region, which is, however, affected by security incidents, even though the intervention area around the city of Fada N'Gourma is still accessible. Currently, a portfolio change is not envisaged as transactions can continue and results can always be achieved. However, Enabel is required to adapt procedures to reduce the security risk to its teams while ensuring continuity in achieving the expected results. Enabel, in collaboration with our embassy in Ouagadougou, organized a workshop on 11 and 12 September 2019 to discuss operational and strategic directions in order to develop scenarios in the event that the security environment deteriorates and could prevent the implementation of our program. The Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid is in continuous dialogue with non-governmental actors on the context of increasing insecurity. We have a shared understanding that the problem of insecurity in different parts of Burkina Faso cannot under any circumstances be underestimated and that the physical and psychological integrity of the staff of the Belgian CNGs and their local partners cannot be jeopardized by the resurgence of acts of terrorism and banditry in the subregion. This situation is likely to have an impact on the ongoing programmes of non-governmental actors. Indeed, some people are forced to adapt their programme and some results may not be achieved. In this regard, the administration is open to the precautionary measures that development actors would have to take in the affected areas. In general, we encourage our diplomatic post in Burkina Faso to continue to meet with Belgian non-governmental actors in order to monitor the situation as best as possible and continue to inform our administration on a regular basis. Our embassy in Ouagadougou has organized specific workshops focusing on the deterioration of the security situation in the country, involving Belgian non-governmental actors on the spot. In conclusion, Belgian non-governmental actors work in a regulatory framework based on flexibility and collective learning that allows them to adapt to the evolving and difficult context in Burkina Faso. Every week, our position reports in detail to the administration of the evolving security situation in the country. Given the current situation in the Central East region, the Enabel position believes that the new program can continue to be implemented. The situation is regularly reassessed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic028x.u29	Minister, to hear you, I have no doubt that you are paying attention to the situation or that you will do what is necessary to protect the personnel on the ground in a context that, as has been said, is becoming increasingly worrying. There was another attack on a mosque last Friday in the north of the country. She killed sixteen people. Since 2015, jihadist attacks have resulted in 600 deaths, according to Agence France-Presse. I note that you are aware of all this and that you will do everything you need to protect staff, but also perhaps to re-adapt or re-calibrate the cooperation policy in the light of the evolving security environment, which unfortunately will lead to serious humanitarian crises. According to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a potential humanitarian crisis could affect one and a half million people.
