ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u1	Madam Minister, on 2 October I asked your predecessor a question about the reimbursement of festival tickets when the organisation itself cancels. Mr Beke then said: "There is a great deal of uncertainty about this. There is, among other things, uncertainty as to the possible reimbursement when an event is cancelled. That is why I have instructed the administration to deepen this issue thoroughly and in detail and to examine with the parties concerned how they will improve the situation in the interests of the consumer." Coincidence wants an article on this subject to be published today in Het Belang van Limburg. That article was about the refund of tickets for Vestiville, a festival that was cancelled very late. There too, it appears after six months that a lot of the delegates still have no clarity about the refund of their ticket. Have you been with the sector? What was the result of that? Have you discussed any sensitising measures with the sector? If so, which one? If not, are you planning to do that again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u2	Mrs Depraetere, you are fast, perhaps a little too fast, because on 5 November I answered your written question about the festival tickets. I suspect you've already received that. I said that the FPS Economy would sit with the sector to deepen this further. That order was given. It's in full execution, but I haven't gotten a feedback from it yet. It is too early to give feedback on this, but I would like to make a commitment to come back to this and look at what the meetings with the sector have resulted in and what recommendations and measures we can take. I would therefore ask you to repeat the question at the beginning of next year. It's a good thing you played short on the ball, but this was very short.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u3	That's true sometimes when you play football.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u4	Madam Secretary, I had received the answer on 2 October. That might be a little too soon. Excuse me for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u5	(...) I will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u6	I fully understand that. I'm glad you're taking an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u7	Madam Minister, normally an airline is obliged to compensate passengers for a delay of at least three hours or when the flight was cancelled and the passenger was informed less than two weeks before the flight. It is known that many low-cost airlines, such as Ryanair, do not always pay compensation consistently, because there is often a lot of discussion about it and the airline often ignores convictions. This is mainly because the head office is not in our country but in Ireland. In Ireland, it is expected that someone who lodges a complaint will also be present effectively, which, of course, is not evident. The person in question must take leave and travel to Ireland to discuss the problem. It goes without saying that very few are prepared to do so. In the summer of 2018, there were four strikes at Ryanair, which resulted in many cancellations and delays. The passengers affected were very little informed about the situation in advance. The public authorities should force airlines to respect at least the case law in one way or another. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. First of all, would it be an option in such cases, as in the case of Ryanair with the strikes, which affected a lot of consumers, that the government would apply for a strike to be used as a means of coercion? Secondly, could the government threaten to withdraw the landing permit to exert pressure on the airline so that it would at least respect our case law? If yes, is that pressure agent used? If not, why is it not used? In that case, are there any other legal options?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, I would like to point out that, according to the analysis carried out by the FPS Economy at the time, the clause in the terms of Ryanair, under which Irish law applies and disputes must be brought before the Irish courts, does not conflict with the European rules in the Rome I and Brussels Ibis Regulations. They provide for exceptions for passenger transport contracts. However, such a clause must be assessed in the light of the rules of law governing unlawful terms. At the beginning of this year, the Court of Cassation delivered an important judgment. The judgment set aside a judgment on the ground that it had not been verified whether the contested international jurisdiction clause distorts the rights and obligations to the detriment of the consumer and is therefore unlawful, and that it had only examined their formal validity under the Brussels Ibis Regulation. According to that case-law, a Belgian passenger who has a dispute with Ryanair about the compensation to which he is entitled must also be able to apply to the Belgian court. Then I come to your specific questions. In reply to your first question, book XVII of the Code of Economic Law determines the grounds on which an action for strike can be brought. This is not the case for non-compliance with Regulation No. 261/2004, which concerns compensation for air passengers. Then I come to your question as to whether we can't withdraw the landing rights. You can put this question to my colleague, Mr Bellot, the Minister for Mobility, because unfortunately I cannot comment on it. I can only say that they know very well what their rights and, above all, their duties are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I will put this question again to Minister Bellot, but perhaps it would be interesting if you could discuss this together. After all, it is an incredibly large number of consumers, and I think that everyone has come across this at some point. It seems that Ryanair knows very well how to circumvent the legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u10	Madam Minister, at the beginning of February this year, calculations made by the CREG for the six-monthly adjustment of the social tariff showed that electricity prices were proposed at a rate of 22% and for gas of 28%. For an average family with an average consumption of EUR 136 for electricity and EUR 210 for natural gas, converted into euros. Those are huge amounts of money. A while ago, I asked you a question about this in plenary. You said at the time that there was consultation with the CREG and that it was still your ambition to work out with the current government a new calculation system that would be somewhat more digestible for the consumer. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. In most cases, the allocation of the social rate is automatic by the FPS Economy, but if the award is not automatic, a complex administrative application procedure awaits. That is not convenient for the group they want to reach. Can a simpler procedure be introduced to reduce the threshold for applying for the social tariff? In the event of default, the energy supplier may terminate the contract. In that case, the parties concerned will move to Fluvius. After this transition, we lose the old status of a protected customer or the social tariff, which means that we pay the market average, which is much higher. That is very contradictory, as it is usually or always just about those families that need the social rate most. Do you intend to address that problem and do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u11	Mrs Depraetere, 85% of the energy contracts are included in the automatic flux. The FPS Economy uses as many automated files as possible. Those who do not automatically benefit from the social rate can request this from the energy supplier via a paper certificate. In most cases, the rightholder is automatically sent this paper certificate at home through the social institution concerned. Since in the past there was often doubt as to who was eligible for the social tariff, the paper certificates proving that one belongs to a category of right holders were legally established in 2012. The social tariff for electricity and gas is the same for every energy supplier. The distribution system operators also benefit from the reduced rate, which is usually granted automatically. It is the FPS Economy that informs energy suppliers and distribution system operators every three months which customers they should charge the social rate. In the case of a move, a change of energy supplier or a switch to another distribution system operator, it is possible that the information is not immediately available. However, this is always corrected afterwards. You also had an additional question concerning the CREG and the new calculation system. That is now being completed and we are preparing everything to go to the Council of Ministers in early January. At present there is still consultation with the various partners in the government. This can normally be closed by next Monday or Tuesday at the latest. In January we will bring this to the government and you will certainly hear more about it in the course of that month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u12	Madam Minister, a law has been in force in Belgium since 1 October prohibiting regular resale of concert tickets. It remains possible that a consumer who for some reason cannot go to a festival will still sell his ticket, provided that this is not at a price higher than the original purchase price. Unfortunately, it still happens often that a lot of tickets end up at resale sites, on which they are resold at usury prices. This is an entire industry, which is mainly located abroad, so that it can escape Belgian legislation. By buying tickets on unofficial sites, the consumer also runs the risk that the official seller will declare the resold tickets invalid and that the buyer will not have access to the event in addition to paying a usury price. In this way, the consumer will be punished twice. It is possible that 20% of the original tickets will be reserved for certain resale sites in order to sell them at higher prices. So an entire industry has been effectively built around it. Madam Secretary, do you know of situations where part of the tickets are reserved for these resale sites? Usually these sites are located in the Netherlands. If so, are you considering measures to address them? If not, are you prepared to investigate further?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u13	Mrs Depraetere, your question says "from 1 October." This gives the impression that it is about 1 October of this year, but it is about 1 October 2013. There was some confusion about that. In fact, a party member of yours has tabled this law in Parliament. The Act on the sale of tickets to events is therefore indeed of 2013. We are aware of the problems you are raising. The Economic Inspectorate has already used all the means at its disposal to enforce the law. Minutes have been drawn up. Web sites were closed down. Requests for international cooperation were also sent. The problem is and remains that these resale sites operate from abroad and that information society services are governed by the country of origin principle. This means that the regulators of the countries concerned should be asked to act, but there is no legislation prohibiting resale. Finally, a claim for strike was brought against the Dutch operators of some resale sites. At first instance, this action was dismissed because the court held that it had no jurisdiction but that it had been appealed against. The appeal court referred a question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling on 24 January 2019. It will therefore depend on whether the application of the law can be enforced in respect of vendors operating abroad. The hearing at this plenary session is scheduled for 29 January 2020. I hope we'll get a verdict on this matter soon. That initial claim for strike dates back to December 2016. In the matter that you are right to address and which we are very well aware of, the ruling of the European Court will be important in order to see if we can take further steps in this regard. I think we should wait for that to determine the position of our country in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I'm sure we'll keep an eye on that statement. It may also be interesting to raise awareness among ticket sellers in our country, so that they can also take additional measures. That's probably already happening. This is indeed not an obvious situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u16	Then we shall await that verdict.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u17	Madam Minister, Belgium has received bad figures from the European Commission. According to the updated growth forecasts, Belgium is dwindling at the bottom, with an economic growth of only 1%. We are also the second worst pupil of the euro area for the budget deficit. Those aren't fantastic numbers. Last summer, the European Commission warned against an economic counterwind and now it is also reducing its growth forecast for the euro area as a whole from 1.4 to 1.2 % for the next two years. Our economy is heavily dependent on our neighbouring countries, especially Germany. Figures from the German Statistical Office show that the German economy grew by 0.1% in the third quarter, despite the fact that analysts had expected a new contraction. That would have meant that the euro area's largest economy would have been in recession. Fortunately, that has not happened, but I think we should pay attention to this, because there is no such thing as a sharp increase. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, how do you interpret these figures? What measures can you take or have you already taken to deal with the stagnation of our economy? Secondly, what are you doing to keep attracting companies to invest in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u18	Mrs Depraetere, you will understand that this matter is not evident to me, although you would very much like me to take all kinds of action in current cases. Sustainable economic growth is, of course, one of the government's priorities and, as Minister for Economic Affairs, I closely follow these developments. It should be noted that a number of government measures, as also mentioned in the 2019 National Reform Programme, have the focus on employment, investment and mobility, with a view to sustaining the number of jobs and growth. For example, the federal government has implemented three major reforms to ensure that Belgium remains competitive. The reform of company law contains new principles, e.g. a more limited number of types of company, four basic forms instead of seventeen, a new definition of the concept of enterprise, including the professions, farmers and the non-profit sector, a consolidation of all legislation on non-profit-making associations and, finally, company law in a single code, the Company Code. The new legislation provides greater flexibility, transparency and accessibility. It also takes account of the European dimension of company law. In addition, in 2018, the federal government approved a multi-annual investment programme 2018-2020 of 4.2 billion euros and a multi-annual strategic investment programme from 2018 to 2031 of 1.5 billion euros. In order to achieve the objective of strong and sustainable growth, it is important to understand the dynamics behind productivity. This will enable policies to be pursued to maintain productivity and competitiveness. On 25 November 2018, the National Council for Productivity was established in Belgium. The aim of that council is to examine the determinants of and trends in productivity in Belgium, then to analyse the policy challenges and evaluate the impact of the related policy options. The first report of the National Council for Productivity will normally be published by the end of this year. Attracting foreign investment that benefits our economy through an appropriate reception and promotion policy is a regional competence. The FPS Economy also provides the secretariat of the liaison cell for foreign investment. One of the main concerns for foreign investors is taxation. A significant change in corporate tax has recently been introduced. As a result of this change, the nominal corporate tax rate will fall to 25% from 2020 and even to 20% to 100,000 euro for certain forms. This must, of course, make our country attractive to foreign investors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u19	Madam Minister, I understand that, given the period of current affairs, you cannot take permanent action, but on-going matters also include the handling of urgent matters. These figures on our economy do require some urgent and additional measures, especially with all the uncertainty that exists especially for the companies around the Brexit. We'll see how the Brexit ends. The future will tell.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u20	Minister, on 12 November 2019, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a ruling on the obligation to establish specific labelling for the marketing of goods produced in Israeli settlements. Based on the rules of international law and on the application of the European rules on consumer information, the Court concludes that products must both clearly indicate the territory of origin (West Bank, Golan Heights, Gaza or East Jerusalem) and the place of provenance, in order to ascertain whether they are produced in a colony or not. This judgment and its application must be able to enable European consumers to make an ethical choice by not supporting the economic activities of Israeli settlements, which are illegal under international law, should we recall? A study published by the European Middle East Project on 12 November on the labelling of wine bottles from Israeli settlements indicates that our country is particularly failing in relation to our European neighbours. Minister, do you intend to publish a brochure for retailers to ensure that they are fully informed about the mandatory nature of this labelling and provide them with concrete examples of its proper application? What are the financial penalties for non-compliance? Finally, you intend to ensure that the products to which the consumer is entitled are traceable, knowing that the Israeli Government does not recognize the borders between it and the occupied Palestinian territories.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u21	Madam Minister, last month in plenary, I asked you about the fact that the Court of Justice of the European Union had decided that goods exported from Israeli settlements should now clearly mention their true origin and not a perfectly misleading "made in Israel". There can therefore no longer be any ambiguity. A product manufactured in colonies will have to be labelled as such. This is anything but symbolic because consumers, in this case Belgian consumers, have the right to know and to choose knowingly. In reply, you indicated that the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union was only two days ago, so you had not yet been able to analyse it in detail. However, it was very clear to you that the authorities, their supervisors and economic actors had to comply with this binding pronouncement. You also announced that you had asked the SPF Economy to inform the professional federations about this judgment. Madam Minister, what steps do you intend to take in practice to enable our country to comply effectively with the relevant European texts? How are your contacts with professional federations? What means and instructions will you give to your FPS to make this decision finally effective, including with your colleague in charge of customs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I was indeed questioned on this subject in plenary on 14 November. In accordance with my reply, I asked the SPF Economy for an analysis of the judgment which the Court of Justice had delivered two days earlier. I received this analysis earlier this month. The information on the SPF Economy website will be adapted and the various professional associations concerned will be made aware of this analysis. This will normally be done before the end of the year, so in the next few days. It will be stressed that these are binding rules. It is clear that the Economic Inspectorate will ensure that the rules are respected as specified by the Court of Justice. The penalties for infringements will be those at level 2 (maximum €80 000) or, in the case of bad faith, those at level 3 (maximum €200 000). These amounts include the additional decimes. Customs is also responsible for this matter. For traceability, customs cooperation is important. In this regard, I refer you to the Minister of Finance. Information will normally reach professional associations in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u23	Minister, I am pleased to hear your answer. I understand your concern to enforce European legislation. However, you only mention the end of the product journey in Belgium. So there is the question of our State's ability to verify its provenance. Regrettably, this is where trade and international policies will have to intertwine. As soon as the State of Israel does not recognize certain borders or most settlements, the origin of the products derived from them is also not recognized by Israel. This requires a lot of expertise and audit work. In addition, the Irish Government - which cannot be taxed as a far-left government - has also dealt with the issue. Given the difficulties of labelling these products, it is moving towards their outright prohibition, in accordance with international law. At some point, the effectiveness of labelling will need to be assessed. Beyond violations of international law by successive Israeli governments, issues such as child labour, exposure to chemicals, violations of social and environmental norms must be raised through the labelling and importation of colonial products.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u24	Mr President, I will go along the same lines as my colleague. Madam Minister, I hear and welcome your strong desire to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It would have been inconceivable that it would have been otherwise. Nevertheless, the stakes lie ahead of the chain, that is, in the identification of the products from the colonies, also in so far as the Israeli Government does not wish to play the game of transparency and law in this field. I will therefore go back to the Committee on External Relations, where I will plead for a hearing of our customs services and the SPF Economy, in order to understand the nature of the difficulties and the knots and to find a way to solve this problem of product identification. Otherwise, we will soon face a paradox, which is due to the Israeli government: by refusing to play the game of identification, this attitude will become an incentive to boycott all the products coming from Israel. That is not our objective. In January, we will certainly open a debate with our services on this subject, with a view to finding the most effective solutions to achieve this necessary objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u25	You answered in my place. I am, indeed, Minister of Economy; and it is only my administration that can control this aspect of the file. On the other hand, the issue of rules of origin for products is a matter for customs. That is why it is important to also question the Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs to look at the other aspects. In any case, you are right to want to question them about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u26	Madam Secretary, in the aftermath of actions by an animal rights organisation, some restaurants serving foie gras were given to deal with threatening emails and negative online reviews. The impact of such false reviews on the image and revenues of a business can be particularly large. More and more customers sometimes look up a restaurant via Google and/or TripAdvisor, where they are immediately confronted with such reviews. Madam Secretary, did you sit around the table with Horeca Flanders? What was the outcome of that conversation? Did you also discuss with the online platforms how they deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u27	You ask me a difficult question, Mrs Houtmeyers. I strongly disapprove of these matters. The malicious publication of false statements by consumers, with the aim of harming traders, is a difficult matter. It is not a question of business practices which are contrary to legal provisions on consumer law. Today, a private individual can perfectly call on a website not to visit a restaurant because they serve certain things. That's not a mistake. When it comes to the malicious placing of false impressions in an organized action, I think that liability for the damage suffered is the only way to deal with it. To this end, traders must produce the necessary facts and take the necessary legal action to determine whether a charge is possible. There is nothing I can do from my competence for Consumers, although I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is indeed not an obvious matter. I don't know if this is the issue here, but I wonder if one can work with Google to receive personal data via the IP addresses or to get malicious reviews offline with such false impressions, which are malicious.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u29	It is also a privacy matter and the parquet should also want to cooperate. We will see what we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 5501747C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Donné's 50501818C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u31	Mr President, Minister, I would like to limit reading at meetings of this kind, so I am not going to read my written record. In short, there is a difference between a synthetic diamond and a natural diamond. On the market, however, it is often seen that both are offered by each other. There are signs that it is not always clear to the consumer which product is being offered. Before using the cannon of regulatory initiatives, I would like to ask whether there are no possibilities in consumer law under general provisions, so that the Economic Inspectorate can intervene when there is confusion for the consumer. Are there any complaints yet? A number of traders have reported this to me, but I do not know if the Inspectorate knows about consumers who have made complaints known.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u32	Mr President, Mr Lachaert, the Economic Inspectorate can certainly intervene. This can be done on the basis of a general ban on unfair commercial practices vis-à-vis consumers. One of the legal rules in this area, namely that laid down in Article VI.97, 2° of the Code of Economic Law, obliges an undertaking to inform the consumer of the main characteristics of the product. The jeweller must therefore make clear to the consumer when it comes to a synthetic diamond. If the jeweller does not do so, he is guilty of a prohibited practice and criminal penalties can be imposed from 26 to 10,000 euros, to increase with the opdecimals. If an undertaking acts in bad faith, the fine may amount to EUR 25,000. A hotline was launched in February 2016. However, we have not yet received any reports of deception when buying diamonds. A change in the royal decision to act against this seems to me to be far too early, as you rightly said. The instrument is there, however, and we can act. There's also a hotline. So if you were to receive signals, it is important that they are reported to us. Then there's something we can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 5501905C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question, as will Question No 6, by Mrs Dierick, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz's 55001975C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, in order to make the coins of 1 and 2 cents disappear, new rules have been in force since 1 December, with the finalisation of up to 5 cents. According to Test Purchase, however, these rules would not yet be fully applied as they should. The consumer organisation would have received many testimonies and questions, in particular on electronic payments. In that case, the trader has the choice: he can round up the amount, but he may also charge the exact price. The law states that if the trader chooses to complete the amounts, he must clearly announce and apply them to all his customers. We were told that roundings are not a problem in cash, but accounting would nevertheless cause problems. The VAT must be calculated on the original amount. This leads to a discrepancy in the actual daily receipts, with the result that the trader threatens to pay more VAT than is due. The revenue received therefore differs from the revenue recorded. First of all, has the FPS economy received any complaints since the entry into force of the law? How many complaints are we talking about? Secondly, how does the Economic Inspectorate deal with these complaints? Thirdly, how do you view the discrepancy between revenue received and registered income? Are you going to take measures to eliminate that distinction?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u36	Mrs Houtmeyers, there has already been a lot of commotion about the 1 and 2 cent coins and the rounding rule. Since 1 December, the Economic Inspectorate has received 20 notifications of rounding out of a total of millions of transactions. In a first phase, the main focus is on informing and sensitizing. This way, each detector gets a modified response. To the trader about whom the notification was about, a letter is addressed explaining the change of law and its implications for him. The possibility of sanctions in the event of infringements is also mentioned. However, as mentioned above, the inspection services will first inform and raise awareness. After a certain period of time they will also sanction. So there is no other way of working here than in other files. The VAT administration has adapted the circulars on the cash register system and the calculation of VAT in order to bring them into line with the mandatory rounding of cash payments. In my view, it was also necessary to do so. The Minister of Finance is competent to answer your third question. There was some commotion about informing and rounding rules and about meal cheques, cash payments, payments with the card and checkout systems that would not have been in order. Our services will have a meeting with Comeos, UCM, UNIZO and the NSZ tomorrow, on 18 December, to see how everything is going, what problems remain and what adjustments may be needed. We await that discussion and consider whether we still need to take action in the next few days and weeks in the area of information and awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs de Laveleye's 55001579C is converted into a written question. Merged Questions 55002139C and 55002141C by Mrs de Laveleye are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u38	Mr President, Minister, with the events and the results of the elections in the United Kingdom, the Brexit is coming a step closer. We all know the consequences, I won't repeat them. We're talking about tens of thousands of jobs. Especially in our province that will have a very big impact. Firstly, what is the state of play in the Council's discussions on the Brexit Guarantee Fund, which will be important for the regions and sectors affected? Secondly, how do you see the chances of keeping the necessary additional expenditure to cover the Brexitschok outside the budgetary effort, as this would be a temporary deviation due to circumstances? Thirdly, in November there was the European Commission's proposal to deposit extra money, EUR 50 million, into the Brexit preparedness fund, but this was rejected by the Member States. How did our country feel about this? Do you support this proposal? Finally, can you outline how the debate on the Brexit Guarantee Fund and the discussion on the next European multi-annual budget are interlinked?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u39	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, on Wednesday 4 September, the European Commission, as part of its preparations for a withdrawal from the United Kingdom without an agreement, launched two proposals on financial support. This is an extension of the scope of the Globalisation Fund and also of the Solidarity Fund, which is normally used for natural disasters. On 21 October 2019, the European Parliament approved the adjustments to the Globalisation Fund. On 24 October, the EPSCO Council approved the proposal. The use of the Solidarity Fund has not yet been agreed by the Member States. Given the Conservative Party's election victory, which resulted in a large majority for Prime Minister Johnson, a no-deal seems to be normal until at least the end of 2020. When we read the newspapers, we see that people want everything through parliament in January. Then we have the period from February to the end of this year, which is still renewable if an extension is applied for before the summer. Last week we had a meeting with the Brexit High Level Group, at which Mr Barnier came to tell us that more than 700 agreements must be concluded, including in the case of a no-deal. In that sense, there is still a lot of work to be done. The question is whether one gets there or not. If there is no delay and there is no agreement on all these matters, we could still find ourselves in a non-agreement situation. It is too early today to go into that further. At this stage, too, the Community acquis remains practically unchanged applicable to the United Kingdom, minus the presence of UK representatives in the EU institutions. The increase in expenditure for the Brexit is therefore also limited for the time being. Therefore, at this stage of the Brexit process, the elements in your second question do not apply. The additional 50 million you are referring to would come from the Solidarity Fund, but that proposal was rejected by the Member States. As outlined above, no agreement has yet been reached on the use of this fund, but in view of recent developments, it seems to me that this will not be on the agenda for the coming period, since we are going to deal now, if I may put it that way. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that both adjustment proposals concerned the current multiannual financial framework, which expires on 31 December 2020. The negotiations for a future multiannual financial framework without the United Kingdom are still ongoing, but in the current proposals the European Commission is not talking about a separate Brexit Fund. Trilogues on the Globalisation Fund 2021-2027 are still ongoing. There is also a difference in vision between the Council and Parliament. Parliament wants to add the Brexit again, but there is still no agreement on this either. I want to make it very clear that at European level we have always been in favour of both funds and of effective support for affected companies and sectors. We will do this again if a no-deal becomes realistic. The government has also put forward a number of proposals in the context of employment measures in a no-deal. There are a lot of measures ready to be taken. We also keep our chances at European level. It will only wait and see what happens in the coming months. However, I fully follow you here, not only for our province, but also for many companies in Belgium today. I have already visited a few companies in the last few weeks as part of the Brexit project. Hainaut was also very badly affected. I was visiting a very badly affected Belgian ornamental farm this weekend. We must be very vigilant about this. Very good preparations are being made at the moment, including in the field of customs and the like. They're very performant. The value of the pound against the value of the euro is already problematic in itself for many sectors. This makes many Belgian products more expensive. It is very important to keep your finger on the wrist for the next few weeks and months. This is what the Brexit High Level Group does. In this way, it can be seen how everything is going and provide the necessary support. If necessary, the problems of the Funds will also be put back on the European agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u40	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You talk a lot about the no-deal scenario. If there is a Brexit with a chord, isn't there any possibility of an intervention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u41	The two funds are very clear for a no-deal scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u42	Keeping the additional investments for Belgium out of the budget is also possible only in case of a no-deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u43	I don't know. I should check. I am not a specialist in the European budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u44	Okay, but it would be interesting if we were very well prepared for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u45	Mr. President, Minister, since December 1, traders have been required to round the total amount their customers pay in cash. A recent survey by the NIS (Independent Neutral Union) shows, however, that there are still a number of problems and a lack of clarity regarding this new rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u46	I answered a similar question from Mrs Houtmeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u47	It would have made more sense if the questions had merged. This did not happen at the request of the committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u48	I'll give the answer, then, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u49	I had the same thought when I saw the list of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u50	In the future we will deal with questions of which many aspects are similar.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u51	I will still clarify the angle of attack of my question. A recent NIS survey shows that there are still a number of problems and a lack of clarity regarding this new rule. In particular, many cash register and merchant suppliers are not aware of the fact that they must indicate the total amount rounded and not rounded on the cashier's ticket. In the event of non-compliance, the fine is addressed to the trader and not to the supplier, which is not acceptable to the NIS. In addition, some traders supplement by hand the rounded and unrounded amounts on the ticket. If this is not prohibited by the new law, it is not in conformity with the rules of the VAT administration. Moreover, for many non-franchised stores, updating the software system is a very expensive operation (up to 3000 euros). Finally, traders would not have enough information, and some would still be unclear about the new rule. For example, some find it illogical that they are allowed to round out electronic payments but that the same is not true for meal securities, including electronic ones. Therefore, the NIS requests a minimum tolerance period of 3 months for this new rule and an evaluation of the legislation after 6 months. Minister, here are my questions: do you intend to communicate more clearly (you or your services or the Economy FPS) about this new rule in order to address the apparent lack of information for traders on the ground? Do you consider such a period of tolerance and assessment relevant and will you put them in place? Shouldn't the VAT administration align with the new law concerning the handwritten addition of amounts on cash tickets? Do you intend to review the allocation of fines in case of non-compliance so as not to penalize traders? Is there any support for updating the software that is very expensive? Why is it allowed to round out electronic payments, but not when it comes to meal titles, including electronic meal titles?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u52	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, the new legal provisions are already in May. As regards the reference to the total actual amount and the rounded amount, these provisions are very clear. It is therefore difficult for me to understand that companies were not aware of it. You can't say they haven't had enough time to get ready. A great deal of effort has been made to inform traders and consumers on time about the legal provisions relating to rounding of payments. First of all, it was worked on information for traders to give them enough time for implementation. This information has been prepared in consultation with the most important trade associations. I commissioned the SPF Economy to conduct an initial assessment of the application of the new rules with the trade associations. The SPF Economy has organized a meeting to be held tomorrow with UNIZE, UCM, SNI and Comeos. If it is found that more information is actually needed, it is possible to consider it. I cannot instruct the Economic Inspectorate not to intervene when it finds violations of legal obligations. Criminal sanctions are provided for in the law, in particular in Book XV of the Code of Economic Law. To adapt them, an amendment to the Act would be necessary, but it is up to the Inspectorate to decide how to proceed with an offence. However, I would like to reiterate that the Inspectorate is committed, in the first phase, to informing and raising awareness. As I have just said, the VAT administration has adapted its circulars in the light of the new rounding rules. For more information, I have to refer you to the Minister of Finance. No assistance is provided for the adjustment of the cashier system. Business support is no longer a federal authority. The use of meal vouchers that form part of the worker's remuneration is regulated. These specific rules must therefore be taken into account. The meeting that will take place tomorrow with the partners is important. We will then see if further action is needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u53	Thank you, Madam Minister. I think it's very good to have reacted by putting all the actors around the table and that the independents and traders directly affected are represented. You'll have a direct grip with the field. That's a very good thing. For the rest, thank you for your answers. We will, of course, remain attentive to this issue, particularly what will emerge from the assessment you will have tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u54	Minister, Black Friday is a good business party, which is now behind us. This day is more and more like a price war waged by major online sales players such as bol.com against small independents who are unable to overcome such competition. The latter cannot afford significant reductions to a few weeks from the period of the balances. Black Friday is a war of conquest of customers and in any war there are victims. All too often, these victims include consumers who are blurred by false promotions. Small independents also suffer because they are not competitive enough to benefit from a sharp increase in their turnover. In addition, the concept of false promotions is emerging more and more frequently. Thus, you increase the price of a good or service just before the Black Friday to pretend to offer a promotion that day. The aim of this scheme is to deceive the consumer and push him into consumption. The latter believes that he has benefited from a discount when he paid the same price as an ordinary day, or even more. Minister, is this practice of false promotions prohibited by law? If so, how does the FPS Economy enforce this legislation? What penalties are provided for in the context of false promotions? Are they as severe for small independents as they are for large chains? What do consumers have to do when they have found a false promotion? What are their rights? What can a manager do when false promotions are discovered in a competitor? Have any consumers complained to the SPF Economy about false promotions at the Black Friday? If so, how much precisely and against which companies? Is the FPS Economy proactive in the search for offences related to fake online and offline promotions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u55	Mr D'Amico, I will give you an answer in Dutch because your question was written in Dutch. I replied to a similar question from Mr Reuter of the MR in plenary in the week of Black Friday. Announcement of false discounts is an unfair commercial practice. Book VI of the Economic Law Code prohibits unfair commercial practices. The infringer risks a level 2 sanction, in particular a criminal fine of EUR 208 to EUR 80 000 or a level 3 penalty of up to EUR 200,000 in the event of bad faith. These amounts are generally valid, but the extent of the infringement and the impact of the infringement can be taken into account when assessing the level of penalties. When a false discount is set, consumers or competitors can report it via the FPS Economy hotline. In this action around Black Friday and Cyber Monday, the FPS Economy has already started to observe price comparisons, to determine what the price level was before. During Black Friday one could check if there were any price increases. We are still waiting for these results, but they have proactively checked which prices were previously requested and which discounts were then given based on the prices on Black Friday. Apart from that, 18 Black Friday notifications have been received this year through the hotline. Seven reports were found to be unfounded, but for the rest an investigation is under way. The identity of the companies cannot be disclosed, but it means that in 11 of the 18 cases further investigation is needed. During the whole year, the Economic Inspectorate investigates individual notifications of fictitious discounts, both online and in physical stores. There will also be ex-post investigations. You will understand, of course, that the wide range of tasks of the Economic Inspectorate makes it impossible to search for everything on a permanent and systematic basis, but many things are already being looked at in this area. For example, price comparisons are made in advance to see if fictitious discounts have been made afterwards. I have 18 reports today, but I am also waiting for the results of the preliminary investigation, which has been checked to see if there have been any effective price increases in the context of Black Friday. So we are working on it, because the discounts are also increasing in proportion. It's not about one day anymore; it's often about a whole week. There is also the discussion about the barrier period, because it is about an action during the barrier period, where Black Friday is often organized throughout the week. We need to evaluate this carefully and see what we can do about it. Mr President, I understand that this issue could perhaps also be discussed in a broader debate in your committee on the barrier period and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u56	Anything can be done in this committee, as long as it falls within our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you for all that you are doing in this area. So, since sanctions can be applied, have they already been applied? Have fraudsters ever been fined?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u59	Oh, okay! Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u60	They range from 200 to 10 000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u61	I understood that. But have you already applied them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u62	I do not have the chiffon with me, because I forwarded it to Mrs Reuter in plenary session. I therefore invite you to consult Mrs Reuter's question. Last year, however, a few PVs were set up, which were followed up by the prosecutor's office with penalties at the key. The details are in the answer I gave to Ms. Reuter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u63	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u64	Madam Minister, on 5 December last, the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission, the CREG, conducted a study on the weight of electricity and natural gas bills in the budget of Belgian households, single-parent families and for the lowest incomes. People who heat their homes with electricity also spend a large part of their budget on their electricity bills. In this context, the situation is particularly problematic for households that combine these three characteristics: being a single parent or a single person, having low incomes and heating up with electricity. The figures published in the study are distressing. More than 400 000 Belgian households are affected by energy poverty. And again, according to the authors of the study, these figures do not take into account many households, since they concern only those who are heated by gas or electricity. In fact, 25% of Belgian households are heating up with fuel oil. Depending on the categories analysed, the figures can quickly rise and reach an exorbitant threshold. For example, in 2018, among households that were heating up with natural gas, energy poverty affected between 20 and 30% of isolated people. For single-parent families, this figure was even 40 to 50 per cent. It should also be noted that between 2007 and 2018, the average price of electricity increased by 31%, excluding inflation, and gas by 2.4%. I will not mention in this context the liberal promises that higher competition will reduce prices. This is not the time and there would be too much to say. I would rather mention the social rate. Today, almost 9% of Belgian households benefit from the social tariff for gas and electricity. Nevertheless, the CREG denounces the fact that the arrangements for granting these social tariffs do not allow for reaching all households with the lowest incomes. According to the Commission, the granting of aid depends too much on the status of the person and not on the level of his income. Greater consideration of income would, in her view, make it possible to include people with modest means more broadly. On the other hand, the CREG points to another problem. Indeed, even for those who benefit from the social tariff, the weight of the energy bill on the household budget remains important, if not very important, for households that heat up with electricity. It is in this context, Madam Minister, that I would like to ask you a few questions. Would you be prepared, as the regulator recommends, to develop specific energy poverty indicators, as required by the European Union, in order to better assess the number of households in difficulty? If so, do you intend to work with the CREG, which says it is available to contribute to this work? With the new indicators, would you then be willing to redefine the conditions for granting the social tariff, in order to better take into account all households in energy poverty? In addition, since the proportion of aid provided by the social tariff does not allow certain households to escape from energy poverty, would you not consider reviewing the amount of aid or, at a minimum, adapting it for those households which are most in difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u65	Mr D'Amico, in the context of a poverty policy that fights against energy poverty, it is indeed important to develop specific indicators related to it. I would remind you that Directive 2019/944 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 June 2019 on common rules for the internal market in electricity, by amending Directive 2012/27 of the European Union, requires all Member States of the European Union to draw up such indicators. They must establish and publish a set of criteria to include low incomes, high energy expenditure relative to disposable income and low energy efficiency. Given his expertise, I think that CREG should be involved in this work. With regard to your questions concerning a change in the system of social tariffs for gas and electricity, a redefinition of the conditions for granting could be envisaged. Nevertheless, I would remind you that the government is in day-to-day business and it is no longer up to it to make such a choice. As far as the gas and electricity price ceilings are concerned, I am almost ready with the exercise. Normally, I will come to the Council of Ministers at the beginning of January with the minimum and maximum ceilings for increases in gas and electricity prices. I can do this in day-to-day business. In addition, account should also be taken of the content of the above-mentioned Directive, which requires Member States to take appropriate measures to protect vulnerable consumers, in particular through the provision of services through their social security systems to ensure the necessary supply to vulnerable customers, and through the granting of aid to improve energy efficiency in order to combat energy insecurity. In order to develop an adequate and structural political solution, an integrated policy with the Regions should therefore be defined, including the two elements contained in Directive 2019/944. Indeed, as you know, the competence of energy efficiency is a regional competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I will personally thank you when your words are translated into action. I assume it will be in the course of January. In any case, we will remain vigilant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u67	Minister, at this time, we are ordering three times as many packages internationally as we were ten years ago. It is therefore not surprising that the number of complaints related to the delivery of packages is also increasing. The end-of-year period promises to reach a peak in this area. The quantity of parcels delivered throughout the world is growing exponentially. Belgium saw an increase of 15.9% last year. 222 million parcels were distributed, representing an average of 20 parcels per capita. No operator gives precise figures on the number of packages lost. The problems encountered relate mainly to packages delivered abroad. Operators treat complaints differently. If you do not receive the package you ordered from abroad, you usually have to turn to the sender. The latter can then contact those who manage the mail on the route taken by the package. If the problem occurred in Belgium, with bpost, you can file a complaint online. In half of the cases, Belgians use bpost to send parcels. According to Test Purchases, there is an explosion in the number of complaints for cases where bpost misdelivered a package. Is there a central point of contact for complaints related to parcel delivery? If this is not the case, would it not be desirable to establish one, so that the federal government has a view of the number and nature of complaints? This would enable appropriate measures to be taken and consumer rights to be protected. How many complaints did the SPF Economy receive about the number of parcel deliveries or the delivery of damaged goods by private delivery companies such as DHL, DPD or GLS last year? Is the trend increasing compared to the previous year? To what extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u68	Mr President, Mr D'Amico, I will reply in Dutch for the variety. The question was submitted in Dutch. The Ombudsdienst voor de Postsector handles complaints about postal and courier companies in Belgium. A customer who is dissatisfied with the services provided by these companies can therefore turn to this ombud service. As you may know, that service falls within the competence of Mr De Backer. However, I have found this in Bpost's annual report, so I can give you some information. The year 2018 was the first year in the history of the ombudsdienst in which the number of complaints or questions about packages exceeded the number of questions about letters at the post very strongly. In 2018, 4.562 complaints were received about the shipment of packages. Most complaints are about missing packages, namely more than a thousand. There are also more than a thousand complaints about graduation errors. The claim for damages contains 828 complaints. Most complaints received by the ombudsdienst are for bpost, DPD, PostNL, Mondial Relay and DHL. For more information, please refer to the annual report. It is important to put the question to Mr De Backer politically. On the basis of these complaints, he can see if he can do anything policy-wise. I can give you more information because of the FPS Economy. The FPS Economy received 49 reports on courier companies in 2019 compared to 38 notifications in 2018. It is not always possible, on the basis of those reports, to correctly identify who is wrong in failing to deliver packages. However, I would like to remind you of the rules on distance selling. The trader to whom the consumer buys a good has a delivery obligation. He thus also bears the burden of proof in case of discussion about the supply of goods. In this context, I would also like to refer to Article VI.44 of the Code of Economic Law, which provides that the risk does not pass on to the consumer until he or the person he has designated has acquired physical possession of the good. Only when the consumer does not use the carrier to which the trader normally refers and designates a carrier, the risk passes when the trader delivers the goods to the carrier. It must therefore be clear that the signing by an employee of bpost or a courier company, or the delivery to a third party without the consumer's prior consent, does not comply with the obligations incumbent on the trader when selling at a distance. I recommend to the consumer, who has purchased something via e-commerce but who has a problem with the delivery, to contact the trader himself, who is the co-contractor. We often see signs at bpost when they are not allowed to sign. That's a problem. That is why I believe that you should put this question to my colleague. I want to give you the answer, because I've been a bit technical. This way you can see what the possibilities are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u69	Minister, thank you for all this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u70	Minister, since Thomas Cook's unfortunate bankruptcy, we all know that all travel agencies and tour operators have an obligation to cover themselves against the risk of insolvency. This legal protection now allows Thomas Cook's clients to have their vacations reimbursed. However, since the end of October, the Wamos Group, which has taken over some agencies, has not yet taken all the necessary steps to protect its customers. According to the Deputy Director of the Travel Guarantee Fund (FGV), no contract was signed with the Fund. Minister, were you aware of Wamos' non-affiliation to the FGV? What do you think? Do you know more about the reasons for this non-affiliation? Are negotiations under way to resolve this situation? Can you tell us more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u71	Mr. Prévot, the Travel Guarantee Fund is not the only body in which travel organizers and retailers can insure themselves against insolvency. As part of the resumption of a part of Thomas Cook's activities, it was important that the owner could start his activities quickly and that he could resume as many workers as possible. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate has given Wamos, as a reseller, time to put its insolvency insurance in order. However, strict conditions have been imposed to avoid the risk to the traveller. This includes a ban on Wamos' own collection of funds, which means that payments are made directly to the tour operator. Only package travel sales are offered by insured tour operators, and no individual travel services are sold. Customers who book a package trip at Wamos therefore pay for the moment directly on the account number of insured tour operators. The consumer therefore runs no financial risk to Wamos itself. The Economic Inspectorate is following the case closely. According to the information she gave me, the file is moving forward. It should be closed soon. I think we're just a few days away from a solution with Wamos. But for travellers, all guarantees are provided. It's very important. As they pay in the account of tour operators, such as Jetair or others, they are thus insured.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u72	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You're trying to be reassuring. When I put this question, I saw it by the prism of the travellers who might be subject to double punishment by not being reimbursed or by having no guarantee in relation to Wamos. I think the transitional solution, which can be understood in substance, is good. The aim is not to allow Wamos to collect funds directly, but to do so through the agencies which are registered with the FGV. I hear that this situation should be resolved in the coming days. Thank you for making this story clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, in about 20 days, it will be the car show. A few weeks ago, the "Journée sans crédit" platform, which brings together some 30 French- and Dutch-speaking associations, published its latest recommendations, with a focus on balloon credits – a financing formula that has the wind in the air, especially in the automotive sector, although it presents an increased risk of over-indebtedness. In fact, the voluntary sector regularly warns us about this. At first glance, the balloon credit is interesting because it allows you to pay monthly payments less than a conventional credit. But there is a danger in that, for the last deadline, you have to pay a much larger monthly payment. However, the consumer is rarely well informed about the conditions for the pick-up of the vehicle, which may reserve bad surprises at the end of the credit. Regularly, the consumer does not manage to pay the ball, i.e. this residual sum, thereby creating a significant risk of over-indebtedness. Minister, are you aware of the number of balloon credits to finance the acquisition of a vehicle that has been granted in recent years? What is the number and percentage of credit defaults for this category? Are there any information obligations on the lender with regard to the conditions for the take-back or buy-back of the vehicle at the end of a balloon credit? Is it possible, under European rules, to prohibit retention-of-title clauses by which the lender retains ownership until the vehicle is paid in full? Can the expected value of the vehicle at the end of the credit be taken into account for the consumer credit analysis, as regulated by the Code of Economic Law and specified by the FPS Economy Guidelines? Is it possible under European legislation to limit the amount of the ball and the repayment period of a balloon credit, as recommended by the platform? Can you provide an update on the controls carried out by the Economic Inspectorate in this sector? How many checks, how many infringements, what penalties? What about the use of mystery shopping?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u74	Mr Prévot, I do not have figures because the Centrale des crédits aux particuliers makes no distinction as to the lack of payment due to a credit balloon among consumer credit agreements. Under penalty of sanction, the law imposes on all lenders and credit intermediaries a general duty of advice, whereby they are obliged to seek the most suitable type and amount of credit, taking into account the financial situation of the consumer at the time of the conclusion of the contract and the purpose of the credit. They are also required to provide all relevant information to the consumer. It would be contrary to the law, an advertisement of the lender that would only highlight the monthly payment paid during the contract without showing, in the same way, the last monthly payment. European regulations do not address the issue. Belgian legislation regulates the conditions and arrangements under which the financial asset may be taken over by the lender in the event of the consumer's default. In order to avoid too rapid recourse to this measure, the law provides that where 40 per cent of the spot price of a property subject to a retention-of-title clause has already been paid by the consumer, the property may be taken over by the lender only by way of a judicial decision or by written agreement. The law also regulates the maximum duration of credit agreements according to the amount and type of credit. The Economic Inspectorate does not have accurate and targeted statistics on balloon credits in the automotive sector. The statistics available concern the controls on the car fair. I'll give you a few figures for the last two years. In 2018, the Economic Inspectorate controlled 47 car brands as well as 23 motorcycle brands. With regard to cars, only 13 brands advertised for consumer credit, 7 brands were in breach and were sent a report. As far as motorcycles are concerned, only 9 brands advertise for consumer credits. Five marks were in violation and were issued a warning note. In 2019, the Economic Inspectorate controlled 16 brands. Only 9 brands advertised for consumer credits, 2 brands advertised for private leasing, one brand advertised for both forms, and 5 minutes were written. Four brands did not advertise funding opportunities. The minutes were accompanied by a proposal for a transaction aimed at extinguishing the public action. All transactions have been paid. The technique of mystery shopping can only be applied if the possible infringements cannot be found in any other way. The figures show that there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u75	Minister, thank you for taking the time to take stock of these appropriations. I'm very concerned because I'm working on the fight against overindebtedness. These are tempting credits. In a few days, many Belgians will go to the car show and will be tempted to buy a new vehicle. They will be offered these famous balloon credits. I hear that information is necessary. A mark that would speak only of monthly payments without stipulating the ball, thus the final residual lump sum to be paid, would be in violation of the law. This is often mentioned in small letters in contracts because it is not attractive. Brands play on the lowest monthly payments. Sometimes the consumer thinks he'll see well in three to four years. Unfortunately, this is where there is a problem and there is a need for additional appropriations to repay the former. Sometimes we find ourselves in very complicated situations. I hear that the work is still long, that there are controls and that transactions have been paid for by certain brands. I hope that attitudes will change and that we will be able to combat the explosion of these balloon credits that contribute to the over-indebtedness of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u76	Minister, artificial intelligence offers many economic opportunities in the financial services sector. However, under the guise of digitalisation, there is also an increase in the cost of banking services and a decline in consumer banking inclusion. According to the last report on the financial inclusion of the Financité association, 568 banking agencies have disappeared in the last year, leaving some municipalities in the state of "banking desert". In addition, 614 money-absorbing devices disappeared in the same period. And, at the same time, the cost of certain services increases, in particular the withdrawal of money from the distributor or the printing of account extracts. In this context, Financité draws attention to the "excluded from digitalisation", in particular the elderly, who suffer the double penalty. Not only do these people no longer know how to access services near their home, they also have to pay much more by moving further. According to Financité, elderly people pay up to seven times too much for their banking services. Over the last few days, a survey has been published in the press, revealing these exorbitant tariffs for the elderly. Minister, have you read the latest Financité report on financial inclusion and what are your reactions to it? Does the Price Observatory examine how the increase in the price of banking services refers in particular to the most disadvantaged people? If so, what are its final findings? If not, can you ask him to deal with these questions? Finally, according to Financité's analysis, many banks do not comply with their legal obligations to promote the banking service, as no information is provided on this subject, either in an agency or on their website. Have your services found these shortcomings? How many checks, infringements, what penalties have been recorded?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u77	Mr Lacroix, I have indeed read the report of 13 December 2019 on Financité. I have asked my administration to study this report in depth. As regards my point of view on the digitalisation of the payments market and the availability of distributors, I refer you to my answer of 13 November last to the oral questions of Mrs Dierick, Mrs Dedonder and Mr Bayet. I have her here at your disposal. It has four pages. A detailed analysis of the increase in the price of banking services offered to the most disadvantaged has not yet been prepared by the Price Observatory. However, it appears from a household budget survey carried out in 2018 by this body that the share of expenditure related to these costs – among other things, the bank card – is relatively higher among households with the lowest incomes. Nevertheless, the importance of this must be relativized. For households in the lowest quartiles (on the basis of income), only 0.20 per cent of expenditure relates to these costs. It is then apparent from the Ambuds Annual Report at the end of 2018 that the most admissible payment complaints and payment accounts (estimated at 454) were examined by the Economic Inspectorate of the SPF Economy. However, only five of these complaints corresponded to basic banking services. The Economic Inspectorate received one complaint in 2018 and two in 2019 regarding account-related banking services. However, their review revealed that there were no basic banking services. If a consumer considers that one of his rights is not respected, he may file a complaint with the Directorate-General of the Economic Inspectorate of the FPS Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I will go into further on the basis of your previous responses to my colleagues. However, I am surprised at how the Price Observatory described the impact of the cost of banking services. Indeed, when we received Finality at a hearing in the same committee, we were told that on average, 75 euros per year were paid out by households, especially the most disadvantaged. This amount may seem small, but for people whose pensions sometimes amount to EUR 900 or 1 000 per month, or for unemployed people and social beneficiaries, it is obviously a large sum. That is why I believe that an effort must be made to remedy it. Minister, I invite you to encourage more vigorous action in this area. However, I would like to recall the policy of banks which, today, are still the most profitable sector, contrary to what has been set for other companies, in particular for industrial-type companies. However, in view of their benefits, it is becoming less and less clear why they are closing agencies that impact not only the staff but also the citizen and first and foremost the elderly, the poorest citizen and the rural citizen. Indeed, it is in the poorest municipalities and in rural areas that the most agencies and ticket distributors are closed down. So there's a problem. I know you can't solve everything, but I think banks really take a lot of freedom from what citizens can expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u79	This amount of 75 euros also surprises me, because the basic banking service amounts to 17 euros, which is the normal cost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u80	I think it was 75 euros. According to Febelfin's reply, if EUR 75 could be a sum, it should be compared with other countries where this amount can amount to EUR 110, 120 or 150. Febelfin relativized, but I felt that an amount of 75 euros constituted a large sum in relation to certain income or allowances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u81	Madam Minister, this is a follow-up question on a subject on which I hope I will not have to ask any further follow-up questions in the next few months. It is about Thomas Cook's bankruptcy and about the lack of clarity about the refunds from the Guarantee Fund. At the end of October, I asked you about a problem that arises for travellers affected by Thomas Cook's bankruptcy. They should contact the Guarantee Fund Travelling. However, that Guarantee Fund refers travellers who have booked a credit card to the credit card company, which refers them back to the Guarantee Fund. So they point at each other and the traveller remains empty-handed. You replied to my oral question No. 55001109C that your cabinet had immediately contacted Febelfin and the Guarantee Fund, which had already held two meetings on 2 and 10 October and that a third meeting would take place on 23 October. In your opinion, the purpose of the consultation was three-part. Firstly, to establish clear and unambiguous communication. Secondly, to check whether customers who have a credit card are entitled to reimbursement of sums which they have unlawfully paid themselves in foreign hotels. Thirdly, if the answer to the second question is positive, examine how it can be organized as easily as possible for the affected travellers. That is why I have two very specific questions for you. Firstly, have the various meetings produced results in the meantime? If so, what was the result? Have the three objectives been achieved, and if so, how? If not, why not, and when can results be expected? Secondly, is it now clear who will reimburse the traveller if the journey was paid by credit card?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u82	Mr Van Hecke, I asked my services weeks ago about the state of play, as there would be a follow-up question. I'm afraid I don't have any good news to tell you. In the meantime, several consultation meetings have taken place with the Guarantee Fund, Febelfin and credit card publishers. We have made a great deal of efforts, and the person on my left can testify to that..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I repeat that, in my view, the practices of some hotels which have forced travellers to pay in person again are unlawful. The question therefore arises as to whether there is an unpaid payment giving entitlement to a refund when the payment was made by credit card. Credit card issuers remain of the opinion that this is not the case and that no chargeback is required under card scheme rules. I can only regret that they continue to have a very narrow interpretation. The customer who used his credit card to pay the hotel a second time under duress must check the contractual terms with his bank for the use of his credit card. If necessary, the traveller who is not satisfied may turn to the Ombudsman for the banks. If this remains a dispute, only the judge can judge. Travellers who booked a stay abroad via Thomas Cook paid for their trip before departure to the tour operator. They have no contractual relationship with the hotel. The guarantee provided by the Guarantee Fund shall cover the reimbursement of the amounts paid by the consumer to the tour operator or, where appropriate, amounts which the consumer has had to pay because the Guarantee Fund would have failed to return. According to the Guarantee Fund figures, 230 of the 22 000 claims submitted reported direct payments on the spot. In the aftermath of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy, the FPS Economy received only four reports of local problems. This is limited, but it remains an unjust matter. We have made every effort, but to this day without the result we were hoping to achieve.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u83	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but my question also consisted of a second part on the initial problem of the consumer who paid for a trip at Thomas Cook with a credit card. That is not the problem of payments abroad. There was discussion as to whether this would be paid by the Guarantee Fund or by the credit card company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u84	The Guarantee Fund will intervene, no matter who paid. Even if you have paid with a credit card, the Guarantee Fund will intervene as part of a package trip or another trip.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u85	There was discussion about this because there was something else on the website of the Guarantee Fund, which was removed later. It said to focus first...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u86	That's right. That was a miscommunication. The Guarantee Fund changed that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u87	So that problem is solved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic077x.u88	Yeah, that's settled. The Guarantee Fund will cover it. The only problem remains in cases where payment has been made twice. We were hoping to recover the credit card payments in this way. The numbers aren't that big. We also assume that the payments concerned only the stay on the spot, not the transport and other items, which meant that the amount was not too bad. We regret that no solutions have been found for this. We think it should be easy, with about 200 cases. However, we continue to hold firm, which we very much regret.
