ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u1	Madam Minister, the 2017 Summer Agreement contained some striking measures to thoroughly modernise the federal government as an employer. For example, Interim Work would also be permitted in the public sector for the replacement of a contractual or statutory official, for a temporary increase in the work or for the performance of exceptional work. Apart from Greece, a country which for my party is by no means a guide country for the use of public funds, Belgium was the only country where temporary work in the government was not yet possible. On 2 March 2018, the Council of Ministers therefore approved the draft royal decree allowing temporary agency work in the federal government. In addition, the text provides for the opt-out of temporary agency work for a uniform duration of up to 12 months. There is a possibility of extending the deadline. When the draft royal decree was announced, it was announced that the draft would be subject to trade-union consultations. An opinion was then requested from the Council of State. What is the current state of play of the royal decree that enables temporary work in the federal government? Has the text already been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion? If so, can you state the main comments of the Council of State? When was the first syndical consultation on the royal decree held? What adjustments have been made after the consultation? Can you tell me when temporary work will start in the federal government? Madam Minister, I would like to point out that I addressed the question to Minister Vandeput in November 2018 and that I re-submitted it on 7 January 2019. So perhaps my question is a little out of date, but I am sure your answers will be very topical.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, since February 1st, there has been an opportunity for public administrations to resort to acting for periods of up to one year as part of the replacement of a statutory or contractual agent. This provision has, of course, been the subject of a great deal of discussion and it is easy to understand why I will not repeat it here. Minister, how will this provision be practically put in place? Will it be a matter of awarding public contracts with either agency? How will this form of temporary recruitment be linked with the legal recruitment body, Selor? To date, have federal public services ever used this opportunity? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u3	Mr President, first of all, I wish everyone a good afternoon. For me, this is the first time I have participated in the work of the Committee on the Interior. Well, that's special, isn't it? However, Mr Vermeulen, I did receive your question on 8 January, in very special circumstances; you will no doubt know what I mean. I shall certainly be happy to answer your question now. The Royal Decree allowing temporary agency work to be carried out by the federal government was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 January 2019. So that was a week after your question was submitted. The opinion of the Council of State has been published in the Belgian Official Journal together with the Royal Decree. In short, the Council of State has made it clear that, in accordance with the sixth state reform, the King is indeed competent to regulate matters. Two forms of temporary agency work had to be removed and the provision of entry into force had to be adapted. The syndicated consultation took place in the first half of 2018 with my predecessor Steven Vandeput. The subsequent adjustments were the result of the opinion of the Council of State. The Royal Decree entered into force on 1 February 2019. From then on, any public service shall be free to use temporary agency work, in accordance with the procedures laid down, in particular the negotiations with trade unions and the rules on public procurement. With regard to Ms. Ben Hamou's supplementary question, the federal authorities would have to ask temporary workers to use temporary workers. It will therefore not be a question of passing through Selor to recruit these temporary staff, which, of course, remains, in consultation with the federal administrations, the recruitment body for all statutory and contractual staff. To date, in light of the recent publication of the Royal Order, you will understand that it is too early to see its effects. However, annual reporting and monitoring are planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u4	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It was not entirely unknown to me, of course, but you mentioned a number of points which are of interest to me. I just hope that we can quickly arrange for any replacement of a contractual or statutory staff member. If this is necessary in the interests of the service, we can now also employ temporary agency workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u5	I thank the Minister for her full answers. I understand that it is a little too early to know who has already called on these acting companies. I shall therefore come back to the matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u6	Mr President, this is my second and final question to the Minister responsible for civil service matters. Madam Minister, in relation to this question, I refer again to the 2017 Summer Agreement, which took measures not only in relation to interim work, but also in which it was decided to raise contractual work to a standard within the federal government. That decision was then in line with the federal government agreement which provided for an evaluation and rationalization of contractual employment. The commitments made for current employees would not be affected, but would, as a general rule, serve as a contractual official. An exception was, of course, provided for functions of authority, such as magistrate, police and defence. Professor Ria Janvier, according to Trends one of the great experts on the subject, supports that decision. The status of Camu of 1937, which is still the basis of the official's statute, has not evolved with the changed context. The government evolved from a night watchman state to a social welfare state. She also felt that the argument that civil servants should be protected against political arbitrariness should be increased. Nevertheless, at the time of the 2017 Summer Agreement, Professor Janvier still had a stick horse left where there was still work to be done. Where the statutory official is over-protected, she considered that the contractual official was under-protected. In 2018, former Minister Vandeput proposed a package of measures to improve the employment conditions of the contractual officials. It will be easier for contractual agents to promote and they will also be able to perform higher positions. In addition, contractual officials will be able to change their service more easily, the number of holidays between all officials will be levelled and not just diplomas will be considered in recruitment, as competences will also be decisive. By removing these different boundaries, the government will be able to pursue a more modern human resources policy, at least in line with my vision and with the vision of former Minister Vandeput. An important point was that social dialogue with the trade unions was still taking place on these measures. In this context, I have questions, which I asked in November and again submitted on 7 January. Madam Minister, can you make an assessment of the measure to make contractual work the rule in the federal government? How many recruitments have there been since the 2017 Summer Agreement? How many of the new recruitments concern people working as contractual officials? How many of the new recruits are employed as statutory officials? Are these only people recruited for authority functions? If not, how many have been recruited for other posts, what are they and what is the reason for the statutory recruitment? I also think that figures are important. Are there differences between the different FPS and PPS in the figures on new recruitments? Which FPS and PPS are still recruiting statutory officials? Are these recruitments exclusively for persons with authority? What is the current state of play with regard to measures to upgrade the employment conditions of contractual officials? How was the social dialogue on that? Have any adjustments been made to the existing package of measures following the social dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u7	The draft law making contractual work the rule was submitted to the Council of State. The then Minister Steven Vandeput received the opinion on 5 October 2018. According to that opinion, serious, far-reaching changes are needed, because among other things the hierarchy of standards was not respected and the definition of an authority function was unclear. Given the political choice of my predecessor's political party last December and the necessary substantial changes, it is no longer possible to deal with this dossier further during the current period. With regard to the improvement of working conditions and the Codex in general, my predecessor Sander Loones had unilaterally decided to conclude the negotiations. My first concern was to suspend that decision and to resume social dialogue in this matter, which is very important both for the employers of the federal public office and for the officials. My aim is to continue the social dialogue with the trade unions and to analyse with my policy cell what is still possible during this period of ongoing business. In 2017, a total of 1 845 recruitments were carried out. The figures for 2018 are not yet available. Of the recruitments in 2017, there were 583 contractuals and 1 262 statutory officials. As far as the figures per FPS are concerned, I will provide the committee secretary with a summary table. It's a lot of numbers. I suppose you can agree to that, if I can't read it to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u8	I really don't expect you to read a table, Madam Secretary. I am not asking any minister to do that, so I am not asking you to do that either. It is important that this information is available, but the figures should not be read. If the Council of State has any objections or problems, they must be resolved. I agree with you on that. Sometimes it may sound a bit strange, because contractualization is actually already the norm with quite a few other governments. I make the comparison with what exists in the meantime with the regional authorities and the community authorities. There, contractualisation has been used very often and with local authorities much more. So I assume it's a temporary problem, but it has to be solved. Social dialogue is of course important, but achieving the objective is at least as important. Social dialogue must seek partners and listen to each other, but in the end it must bring about a modernisation of public office, without losing it altogether. That's not the point. An under-protection or erosion must certainly not be the objective, certainly not for my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u9	Président: Brecht Vermeulen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u10	Madam Minister, I have been following this dossier since the beginning of the legislature, because in 2016 there was a European directive stating that users of speed pedals should not be regarded as cyclists. That directive was translated into a royal decree, which meant that the employer was no longer allowed to pay a bicycle fee for the use of those vehicles. We have drafted a bill on this subject and finally the previous Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, has implemented a legislative amendment which also allows users of a speed pedelec to receive a bicycle fee. That was a good thing, in our opinion. On Friday 10 November 2017, that law was published. We thought that this would solve the problem, but nothing was less true, because many workers who drive a speed pedal to work today are still not eligible for this advantage, although their colleagues who ride classic bicycles or with electric bicycles that offer stair support for a speed below 25 kilometers per hour do enjoy that advantage. Federal officials, soldiers and members of the federal police are still not eligible for a bicycle fee today if they use a speed pedal. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. What is the state of discussion between the government and the trade unions? How does this consultation with the syndicated partners proceed with regard to the design of a new code for federal officials? Is there a consensus on that design? If not, why not? The file on speed pedals and the bicycle fee is, of course, part of the global social consultation with the social partners, so that everything is put on the long run. After all, there are a lot of difficult points in the social dialogue and it is a pity that a small measure such as adjusting the bicycle fee in favour of users of a speed pedelec will not be possible. Apart from the heavy discussions on other aspects of the statute of federal officials, military officers and police, can there not be an arrangement for the bicycle fee and the users of a speed pedelec?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u11	Madam Minister, my question concerns the same problem of cycling fees. I think it is very important that compensation is also paid to people who come to work by bicycle. This also encourages them to use other means of transport than, for example, the car. In recent years, the speed pedelec has become increasingly important in traffic. People choose because they can travel longer distances with it in a comfortable way. However, there is a problem with the bicycle fee. The Royal Decree still states that the maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour must not be exceeded. With a speed pedal one goes faster. The KB must therefore be adapted. It is said that it is being worked on, but I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. Is the KB in question being modified? If so, what is the status of that adjustment? If not, do you think it should be adjusted? What steps should be taken to adapt the RB? What difficulties do you have in this regard? Finally, when do you expect the RB to be adapted so that this can be arranged for police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u12	Mr. President, Madam Minister, the codex launched by Mr. Steven Vandeput has made a lot of public servants grin. Indeed, the purpose of the reform was to substantially change the status of civil servants into the exception, thus becoming the norm. In particular, the government wanted to address the sick leave system, among other unbalanced measures limiting the benefits of public service status, without aligning working conditions with the benefits enjoyed by private sector workers. After the attacks on sick leave and the introduction of the acting period, officials are simply worried about the survival of their status. On the other hand, the unions had tried to meet Minister Vandeput and his successor Minister Loones, but had not felt listened. Now that you have taken over this competence, many hope that the proposals put on the table by previous ministers will, at a minimum, be re-discussed. Minister, can you tell us what is the status of codex reform? Do you intend to resume a genuine social dialogue with the representatives of the agents of the State, reduced by your predecessors to a mere formality? Have you ever had contact with trade union organisations in this direction and, if so, what conclusions do you draw?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u13	Mr President, I was dealing with Community concerns for a moment, because we did not find the answer in French and I was very sorry for Mrs Ben Hamou. In the meantime, however, we have found the French text. Mrs Ben Hamou, on 9 December, when I took office, as I indicated in my previous reply, the negotiations with the trade union organisations had just concluded. After more than seven months of negotiations, Minister Loones – who had succeeded Mr Vandeput – had unilaterally decided to close them and had transmitted a draft protocol on 6 December asking them to submit their comments within 15 working days. As far as I was concerned, the day after I took office, being fully aware that this matter was of great importance, both to employers in the federal public service and to public servants – because of the sometimes substantial changes in working conditions – I sent a letter to the union organizations in order to meet them as soon as possible, in order to better identify the problems encountered. This meeting took place on December 20th and was very interesting in many ways. On that occasion, I told them that I did not consider the negotiations to be over and that, on the contrary, I wanted social dialogue to resume. My objective is, of course, to pursue it with the trade union organisations, by analysing what can be done in the context of day-to-day business. Mr Van den Bergh and Mr Van Hecke, no opinion has been requested from the Council of State in view of the fact that the trade-union negotiations have not yet been concluded and that, depending on the adjustments made to the draft Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers will still have to give its agreement. As regards the moment when the payment of the bicycle fee for the speed pedals will be possible, the time when the new code enters into force will be decisive. Mr Van Hecke, this also applies to police staff because their statute refers to the rules applicable to civil servants. In any case, the adaptation of the regulation to grant the bicycle fee for the speed pedals is a new initiative and cannot therefore be completed during a period of ongoing business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you for your reply, which is disappointing, however. I believe that this is a simple measure. If you ask Parliament if there is a basis for adjusting this measure and asking for its approval by means of a resolution, then I think that Parliament would give you the permission to further develop that arrangement. Perhaps we should consider whether something can still be done in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u15	Minister, I can only rejoice to hear that you have met with the unions here little in a constructive atmosphere. I therefore encourage you to continue to do so, as they have been calling for genuine dialogue from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u16	Mr President, if I may, I would like to give you some more information. We are not experts on current matters, as this does not happen so often, especially in such circumstances. However, as far as I know, a Parliament resolution does not preclude a new government from taking a new initiative. Either the initiative comes from Parliament, but it is no longer possible in a government in current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u17	Mr.President, Minister, the Neutral Union for Independents (NSI) conducted a "mystery calling and mystery mailing" survey of ten federal administrations between October and November 2018. The evaluation was based on a set of criteria related to the knowledge and accuracy of the responses given. This indicates that one third of the questions asked electronically or over the telephone by contractors do not receive an answer; that there are large disparities between jurisdictions; that more than one in three questions asked electronically remain unanswered (e.g., the Federal Pension Service (FPS) responded to only one of ten emails sent to it). Bad students include FPS Finance and FPS. Overall results differ according to language group. FPS Finance, for example, did not receive any French-language telephone calls. I have provided you with a table showing the nuances between French- and Dutch-speaking with respect to the unreceived calls and having received an adequate response, unreceived calls or e-mails having received an adequate response. The results are nuanced. It appears that entrepreneurs do not always find answers to their questions. Differences in results between Francophones and Dutch speakers also raise questions about the equal treatment of entrepreneurs under separate language regimes. Without commenting on all the details of this investigation, it appears that the investigation corroborates a great deal of information from, among other things, federal administrations that federal officials are not sufficiently trained technically to answer questions from citizens. Beyond this investigation, I now come to question the level of training and specialization of federal public officials. As a reminder, the desire of your predecessors was to improve "the efficiency of services to citizens and businesses in order to ensure excellence in the public service", as stated in the Public Service Policy Note of November 7, 2018. It seems to me that training contributes to this. Minister, are federal government officials being trained to best respond to citizens' questions? If so, how often? How are they organised in practice? What types of training are offered? What is their object? What about the content? Are all federal public servants involved? How do you explain the differences in results according to the language regime of the service interviewed? Would some Dutch-speaking officials be better trained? Finally, what efforts have your administration made with regard to staff training?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u18	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question. I confirm that staff members in direct contact, in the course of their duties, with citizens and businesses, have the opportunity to participate in generic training courses to assist them in their development. For example, since 2014, there have been nearly 600 participants for the "Writing Professionally" training, which gathers an appreciation between 8 and 9 on a scale of 10. In addition, the Recruitment and Development Branch of the SPF Strategy and Support continues to invest in the support of federal organizations in order to increase the quality of responses provided through tailor-made training to take into account organizational elements, in order to achieve better results in the field. In view of the specific nature of the subjects specific to each organization, there is also a qualitative training challenge within each administration which is addressed through knowledge transfer, on-the-job training or external training. More generally, I would add that every staff member in the federal government has access to a catalogue of training provided by this Branch. In 2018 alone, 1,056 face-to-face training sessions were organized, with a total of 11,217 registrations. These courses covered topics such as management, personal development, communication techniques or administrative matters. It is important to note that DG Recruitment and Development also has an offer of e-learning solutions. We currently have 162 online training courses. For 2018 alone, 9,037 federal public service personnel participated in these e-learning courses, representing nearly 15% of the staff. With regard to the question relating to the survey carried out by the Neutral Union for Independents, I cannot of course comment on the methodology used, let alone on the reasons for the result. However, I am pleased to see that, in comparison with the results of a similar survey conducted last year, the results are improving. [[The overall average satisfaction rate for 2018 is 70%, compared to 65% in 2017.]] Having said that, I believe that these results are at least a signal and should encourage us to continue our efforts in terms of training. That seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u19	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I raised the issue of triggering warning signals in order to increase participation in these trainings, possibly by providing incentives to stimulate staff to attend these trainings. You mention the 15% rate for e-learning, while we are in the age of digitalization and other techniques for training and learning. I appreciated to its correct extent the beginning of your answer, since you say that the agents "have the possibility". Perhaps more needs to be done than "giving the opportunity" to be able to provide an adequate service to citizens, communities and businesses. An initiative should be taken to see training as a career plus and not as a punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u20	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Gabriels' 28595 and 28600 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, since this is a topical debate, Members of political groups who have not tabled an oral question may follow the question and/or reply. I will strictly monitor the speaking time, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Since Mr Hedebouw and Mr Van Hees are not present, I give the floor to Mrs Waterschoot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u22	Mr. Speaker, Madam Minister, my question was first addressed to the Prime Minister because I wanted to hear him on the government's responsibility in this matter, but I am pleased to hear your views on this. In view of the two minutes granted to me, I will not go back to the retroacts of this scandal, the visagate. Here are my questions. Since the beginning of this legislature, has the issue of humanitarian visas been referred to the Council of Ministers or to Kern? We know that, from the beginning of his term of office, Mr Franken brought together his administration and NGOs to reflect on a new policy on humanitarian visas. We know that Myria sent alert signals as early as 2017 about the increase in the number of visas issued. Did the government, at one point, deal with the matter? My second question relates to the letter denouncing traffic sent by the European Syriac Union. Has the government been formally or informally aware of this letter sent in October 2018? If so, has there been any follow-up? In plenary session, you confirmed that the holders of the Francken-Kucam visa were victims and that, therefore, they would not be sanctioned. Do you confirm such case law that would then be applied to other cases of migrants arriving in Belgium via other visa traffickers? In terms of numbers, you had quickly identified, at the beginning of your administrative investigation, 600 humanitarian visa applications submitted by individual intermediaries in 2018, of which 200 were named Mr Kucam. Do you know the exact number of humanitarian visas issued by individual intermediaries between 2015 and 2018? How many are linked to Mr Kucam's career and what is the profile of persons who have obtained visas through Mr Kucam, in terms of nationality, geographical origin, sex, age, etc.- Is that what you're saying? By means of the press,...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u23	Mrs Waterschoot, your time has passed. Ask your question directly without introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u24	All right, Mr. President. You had announced in the press that you had closed the door of your office to the dull people. Have such persons come to your office and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u25	Madam Secretary, the affair exposes the lack of transparency and clientelism that your predecessor's cabinet committed. Such shady constructions are unacceptable. I would like to ask you how you respond to the proliferation of opportunities to obtain humanitarian visas. One way was more unreliable than the other. In addition, all kinds of official bodies such as DVZ and the Commissioner-General were also removed. Have all these collective operations stopped in the meantime? Have you had any contact with any intermediaries? Have they tried to offer themselves to you? How did you react to that? How did you proceed as a competent minister during the previous legislature? Have you also worked with lists handed over to your cabinet without checking for vulnerability? Have you, as a competent minister, also made such collective movements, such as humanitarian rescue operations in which visas are granted in groups, or have you never done so? What is your position on religion as a criterion? In 2014, an operation was launched, purely and exclusively to save Christians from Syria, while everyone underlines that vulnerability must be the most important criterion. Do you find the e-mail sent from the Francken cabinet to the consulate in Beirut, a sign of good governance? That e-mail has a very strange tone and is very personal. One of the intermediaries is even put forward as a privileged contact person. Is it possible that your cabinet also has contacts with our diplomatic posts in the same way? What policy are you currently pursuing on humanitarian visas? Do you agree that it should remain an important channel for secure, legal access to Europe, although limited to the most vulnerable? What are your views on possible legislative changes? Do you think it is necessary to tighten up our legislation in this area? How do you see the role of the United Nations? We have learned that the United Nations can play an important role, contrary to what Mr Francken has always said. They have also offered their help to our country. They do seem to have expertise in this area, even in contrast to what was always claimed by Mr Francken. How and to what extent will you cooperate with the United Nations and the UN Refugee Organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u26	Madam Minister, the fuss that has arisen in recent weeks is mainly about the way an intermediary works. If that method is correct, which is currently being investigated, it is a deceptive and criminal procedure. The intermediary would have requested financial compensation from Syrian Christians for his mediation with the former government of Asylum and Migration. Again, if that turns out to be true, it's reprehensible and punishable. So we're counting on the court to clarify this. However, that is independent of the competence that you, as the new Minister of Asylum and Migration, still have, namely to issue humanitarian visas to people in need. That is a standard formula to legally rescue people from a precarious situation and to bring them to safer places. I do not think there is any discussion about the fact that Syrian Christians are in danger in their home country because of their religion. Madam Minister, are you seeking a different treatment or equal treatment of Syrian Christians compared to other groups on which you issue humanitarian visas? I have another question that I asked several people during the hearing. Was and is there, in your opinion, any other way of saving Christians, who are certain that their lives are in danger because of their religion, from Syria, given that UNHCR has no foothold in Syria? For the sake of completeness, I refer to the resolution adopted to explicitly urge the government to make efforts to protect persecuted Christians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u27	Madam Minister, the matter does not need an introduction and I shall therefore proceed directly to my questions. Can you confirm the figures of former Secretary of State Francken? He tweeted that 1 501 humanitarian visas were issued through intermediaries. We have never received any other official information about this, except through that tweet. Do you have a view of the nature and urgency of the operation by network? A contract was concluded with Sant'Egidio on the progress of cooperation. Were such agreements also concluded with other intermediaries? Of the 1 501 visa applications were refused via intermediaries? How much and why? How many times did it happen that the applicant for a humanitarian visa finally arrived at the consulate via an intermediary and didn't get a laissez pass and why? According to former Secretary of State Francken, the in-depth check by the consulate was carried out, but the consul rightly says that it was an sometimes shortened and limited administrative procedure. DVZ has also stated here that sometimes laissez-passers were given to persons without passports. Did it happen that DVZ instructed the consulate to give a laissez pass, without the consulate having a document allowing identification, for example a driver's license? How sure is one that the person who received a visa was indeed the person with the right identity papers? Was there any deviation from the standards applied at consulates and/or State Security? How many laissez-passers were issued through the system of humanitarian visas via intermediaries? An overview per network would be interesting. Do you have any idea how the files were finally looked at by the cabinet? For example, have you found traces of extensive files per applicant? Were those files delivered to DVZ and are they still traceable? Those who applied for a humanitarian visa through the embassy and therefore not through an intermediary had to document their own situation in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u28	Mrs. De Coninck, can you finish? You have already exceeded your two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u29	Mr President, I am still working on my questions. I didn't give an introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u30	Yeah, but those two minutes include all the questions. You ask a lot of questions about figures, which are normally written. You may ask them, but be concise and stay within the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u31	Mr President, I am very fast. On the first list of humanitarian visas, I would like to have a network overview of the number of people who eventually applied for asylum and when. Why were some refused? Some were also found to have dual nationality. What was the second nationality? I would also like to have an overview per network. I have another policy question. Madam Minister, are you prepared to consider how to proceed according to the Canadian model, which consists of resettlement by citizens and organisations within a fixed quota?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u32	Mr President, I shall sum up my questions. Minister, how many people have "benefited" from this "visa Melikan Kucam"? On a provisional basis, you put forward the figure of 200. Do you have any idea how much money they paid? We know that they could amount to up to 15,000 or even 20,000 euros. The Syriac community - the Christians of the East - launched an alert last October. Was it heard by other members of the government? Do you know if other alerts had been issued in advance? Thus, the case of Mr. Van Overmeire was mentioned last summer. Do you have any information about when extortion of funds was reported? Were these people really the most vulnerable, as the N-VA claims today? Indeed, we know that the Syriacs themselves warned that cities and villages that were not threatened by the Islamic State were being evacuated, even though Christian communities wanted to be protected there. In short, have the vulnerability criteria been clearly identified? More generally, were these visas motivated? How many people have applied for and received asylum? We know that some of them have left Belgian territory. Who, in the meantime, have benefited from the right of asylum? You have decided to completely change the practice of issuing humanitarian visas. What bothered you particularly in the system put in place by Theo Francken? What did you choose to replace him?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u33	All the questions that have been tabled have been asked. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is not yet here, but she will be able to join us later. I shall now give the floor to the groups that still want to ask questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u34	Madam Minister, there is no need to go back to the details of what is now known as the visagate, a scandal on which this committee is conducting numerous hearings. In fact, we will have the opportunity to hear you more at length in the context of these. However, it is important to ask you today what you inherited in this case when you took over the skills. What immediate measures did you take with regard to humanitarian visas upon arrival? You have stated that you no longer want to work with intermediaries other than recognized organizations. What about today? What are these organizations? What measures have you taken at the administrative level in this case? Have you decided to involve more closely than your predecessor the bodies competent for vulnerability such as the CGRA (Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons) or the Office of Foreigners? Have you ever used your discretion since you took office?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u35	Madam Secretary, I have three further questions. Firstly, can you give me more details on exactly how the procedure for issuing humanitarian visas was carried out with your predecessor? Secondly, what will you do if it turns out that there is a connection to the mafia clan? If your research shows that indeed malicious persons who are not vulnerable have received humanitarian visas, what action will they take? Thirdly, what is the timing of the administrative investigation? Can this indeed be completed next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u36	Minister, I have only one essential question for you. What can you tell us today about the administrative investigation you initiated after you took up your duties? We know that the findings of this investigation will be delivered to us in the coming weeks, but I imagine that you already have some elements to provide and that is what we are interested in today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u37	Madam Secretary, until 2014 there were on average around 200 issues per year. After that, the number of crescendo went up to more than 2 000. What are your grades in your first months? What are your expectations on an annual basis for the coming time? What is your policy on cooperation with the administration and the United Nations, on transparency, control and cooperation with other organisations? What are your lines? What is the status of the administrative investigation? I also have a few specific questions. What was the composition of the different groups? I am thinking of Sant'Egidio, Mr Geeyn, the intermediaries in Aalst and Melikan Kucam. What nationality are they? What is their country of origin? Are they Syrians? Are they Turks? Can you give an overview of origin, transit, nationality and the number of asylum applicants per group? What are the differences between the groups? In this way, we could compare the figures by group and draw any political conclusions from them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u38	Anyone else want to speak? [[No.]] Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u39	Mr President, once again I feel like I was the first time I had to appear here in the Committee on the Interior as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In fact, I should feel seven years younger, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u40	You're still looking good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u41	Thank you. You're a good liar. [[Laughter]] Colleagues, thank you for your questions. A number of questions specifically concerned Mr Kucam's case. Some Members have already pointed it out, and that case is in the hands of the court. I am counting on that case to be decided by the court and any culprits will be punished. In any event, the government has taken a civil action in order to be involved and to be kept informed of the outcome of the investigation. My services are already cooperating fully with justice. During Question Time in plenary, I indicated that in principle I will not withdraw the residence permits of people who have received a visa through Mr Kucam because they are the victims. It's about bona fide people. If the abuse has gone so far that a humanitarian visa has been issued to malicious persons, who were not in danger but who wanted to come to our country for other reasons, we must of course act. I will not hesitate to take action in such cases. For the time being, however, we do not have any indication of this. We await the further results of the ongoing judicial investigation. I was asked if the government was aware of some kind of mail. Mr Dallemagne was the first to unpack in the Chamber. I've never seen that letter before. I wasn't aware of the existence of that letter either. I have never heard anything about this in the Council of Ministers or in the nuclear cabinet. I therefore assume that the others were not aware of this either. After that plenary session, I immediately contacted a number of Members of the European Parliament. I think it's kind of weird that no one could find that letter in his mailbox. For me, that's bizarre. In any case, I have heard from several people from various parties that they had not received that letter. However, the parties claimed that they had sent that letter to everyone. It would be a fairly closed system, and it is strange that no one received that letter. There was then a question about the procedure followed. There are several procedures allowing vulnerable persons who potentially need international protection to come to Belgium legally. This can be done through resettlement. I started that settlement in 2013, but she went up after that. This can be done through relocation, through an individual application for a humanitarian visa. The resettlement is determined in advance, first by UNHCR and later also by the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, who cooperates with it. The proposed persons may be granted an international protection status. On the basis of the UNHCR's dossier, of the safety analyses, but also of the interview of the CGVS, the Commissioner-General prepares an opinion for the Secretary of State and also for me in the past. The State Secretary then instructs DVZ to issue a humanitarian visa, so that the selected refugees can travel to Belgium. Relocation transfers asylum seekers, not refugees, from one Member State to another. The examination of the application for asylum will not start until after the transfer. As these are intra-European movements, they are not granted a visa but only a travel document. Finally, there are also humanitarian visas based on an individual application. A humanitarian visa may be applied for by persons who do not fall within the categories to which the Aliens Act allows them to apply for a visa, based on family reunification, studies, tourism and matters. Such visas are requested through a Belgian embassy or consulate. It is up to the Minister's discretion to issue a visa to such persons. In principle, these decisions are made by the Office of Foreigners. In this context, account shall first be taken of the case-law arising from the judgments of the Council of the Litigation of Aliens and the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition to law and jurisprudence, the Agency applies a number of other criteria, such as the connection with our country or the possession of a passport, when examining applications. Humanitarian visas, which are the subject of the visa issue, have not followed this path. Name lists were delivered to DVZ by my predecessor's cabinet. The administration was not aware of a selection method. There was also no documented dossier that had to be analysed. The instruction just had to be carried out. That meant in concrete terms the following. The cabinet provided DVZ with a list of persons by e-mail. The list also included the names of the intermediaries. I have just heard from Mrs Smeyers that there were 'intermediaries', which we have not yet found. DVZ also sent a request for verification to the State Security and the OCAD for a security check. DVZ sent the results of this check to the cabinet. The instruction of the cabinet was to make an appointment with the relevant post and to grant the admission to deliver travel documents and humanitarian visa type D, i.e. long stay, to the person concerned. This instruction was transferred by DVZ to the relevant post. DVZ prepared individual invitations for the persons concerned to appear at the relevant post for issuing a visa. The aim is to facilitate the border crossing of people who do not live in Lebanon. These invitations were transferred to the cabinet. The cabinet delivered these invitations to the intermediaries. The selected persons applied to the post for the delivery of travel documents and visas. As a result, instructions to issue a visa were issued by the firm. Contrary to the relocation instructions, these lists were not signed by the Secretary of State or provided in a closed envelope. They were sent from a mailbox of a staff member of the firm. The hierarchical route covered by these lists cannot be deducted from the letters to the Office of Foreigners. The arrival in Belgium was not registered. The parties concerned were free to apply for international protection in Belgium. A large part of them have done so effectively, some of them have not done so so yet. There is also a suspicion that a number of people have left for another European country after their arrival. The criteria used and the way in which the selection of persons was made by the cabinet and intermediaries have not been clear to me so far, unlike normal procedures such as resettlement or individual applications. With regard to the requested figures, the internal survey of the lists sent by the firm is still under way. I asked when I could have access to it. I have been told that this will be in the next few days. I hope to be able to explain this next week. I can only give general figures on humanitarian visas. Until 2015, the number of visas varied around 200 per year. As of 2015, there has been a strong increase. In 2015, there were 1 261 applications of which 843 were granted. In 2016, there were 1 749 and 1 185 awards. In 2017, there were 3 067 applications and 2 362 awards. In 2018 there were 2 733 applications, of which 2 149 received a visa. The increase is mainly explained by an increasing number of Syrians. They formed the largest group in 2015. Also in 2018 we see that the percentage is increasing. Then 1 610 Syrians received a humanitarian visa. We also see that the number of visas for which the application went through the cabinet doubled in 2018 compared to 2017. In 2017, that was 20% of the visas that were delivered. It was already 40% in 2018. A series of questions on the conclusions and policy I am following now. I've explained it before. I've never worked with intermediaries before, and I haven't started doing that either. It seems to me that it is best to send a powerful signal to the outside world that this channel is closed and remains closed. In the meantime, I have already issued two humanitarian visas to children. It's been in the paper. Apparently now people are afraid to apply for another visa, because it remains two. Of course, this does not mean that we abandon vulnerable people from, for example, refugee camps. On the contrary, people who are in real danger because of their religious beliefs, for example, can also count on us. However, I would only like to work through reliable organisations, such as the UN Refugee Agency. Other organisations can also cooperate, but for me it is crucial that we know 100% that the people selected to come to our country with a humanitarian visa are also effectively vulnerable and at risk. So there must be no other motives. Only if the selection procedure is sufficiently transparent and correct will such visas still be granted. In the meantime, we also know, through the letter written by the United Nations, that they are perfectly capable of doing so. This is evident from the report they have handed over to the Committee of the Chamber. I am also convinced that working with reliable organisations can eliminate any suspicion of abuse or clientelism. That is something that we all benefit from, not least the people who are at risk in the country of origin because of their beliefs or beliefs. In addition, of course, the normal channels such as resettlement and relocation will continue to apply. I've explained it before. I come now to the suggestions made in connection with the humanitarian visa system. I have heard several suggestions to reform that system. As I have said, I am open to these suggestions, but above all we should not throw the child away with the bath water. The aim of the humanitarian visa is to allow us, in exceptional circumstances, to give people the chance to come to our country so that they can then apply for a residence permit. In this context, some discretion is essential. A list of binding criteria presents a dual disadvantage. On the one hand, there is a risk that people who need it will not be taken into account because they do not meet these criteria. On the other hand, there is also a risk that these criteria will become an enforceable right detrimental to its exceptional character. The aim cannot be for the humanitarian visa system to become a separate new migration channel. Not to mention the fact that it can be used to bypass other channels. I remember the call for greater transparency. Especially in the case of larger operations, such as those involving Syrian refugees, it is appropriate to inform Parliament sufficiently and regularly. I am convinced that no one here disputes that these people had to be helped at that time and that we must continue to help them, as Mrs Smeyers asks, using the humanitarian visa system. However, this should be done provided that cooperation with trustworthy organisations which use transparent and clear selection procedures and subject to regular consultation with Parliament. In this way, we can rule out abuse to the maximum, which is the main issue for me. A number of questions were also asked which are either the subject of the investigation by the public prosecutor or the administrative inquiry. We have noted these questions and I hope to be able to answer them next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. On the question of whether during the parliamentary term the government was seized once - formally or informally - of the issue of humanitarian visas, either in the Council of Ministers or in Kern, I did not hear an answer, or I misheard. This seems particularly surprising to me. Indeed, regardless of the discretion of the Secretary of State, the number of visas was increasing dramatically. In addition, Mr Jan Jambon, the Minister of the Interior, was deeply concerned about the fight against trafficking in human beings. If that is the case, I do not understand how it is possible that the government has never dealt with this issue during the four and a half years of this Parliament. I come to the letter of the Syriac community. This is getting really surprising. Perhaps we should shed some light on that. Indeed, no one has heard of this letter. The fact that we invite these people to this commission can help - if they agree to come - to understand what has happened. From the very mouth of the director of the Office of Foreigners, it is an environment in which rumors go quickly. What about this letter? I hope that, either within the framework of this committee or within the framework of your administrative inquiry, there will be some elements in this respect. I have heard different information which does not fully corroborate Mr Franken's. Since I only have two minutes, I won't stretch too much, Mr. President. In particular, I heard that he did not sign the lists of humanitarian visas and that there was therefore no respect for the line of command. It's amazing. As far as reform is concerned, you know that our group has a proposal for a law that aims to retain discretionary competence, but also to mark and frame it. I hear that this meets your goals somewhat and that you are open to it. I hope that, if this is not the case in this Parliament, the next Parliament will be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which clearly indicates a change of course with regard to the Francken system. We can only be happy about that. We have heard two new, remarkable things here today. Firstly, the lists of persons to whom a humanitarian visa was to be issued were sent by e-mail from the cabinet to diplomatic posts. It's unusual that that didn't happen under, for example, closed cover. I have the impression that that way is rather debatable and non-binding. Secondly, there was no form of registration after the arrival of the persons concerned in Belgium. In other words, the Secretary of State ensures that humanitarian visas are delivered to people through his shady construction, but I understand that that was the end of the matter for him. People come here in Belgium, but every registration, every trace of those people is missing, so it takes a lot of research to know who has applied for asylum and who has not. You emphasise very clearly that you will do things differently and that you will no longer work with such intermediaries, but with the UN or other official organisations. If you don't mind, I have two more questions. Unless I am mistaken, first of all, I have not heard you say that a change of law is appropriate and useful. Indeed, the question arises as to whether the current scope in Article 9 is not too wide for a member of the government, with the result that abuse is also possible. Perhaps we should tighten that up with a little more control from Parliament and cooperation with official organisations. We have tabled a bill that you may be able to look at, Madam Secretary. Hopefully we will be able to find an alternative solution in the remaining weeks. It would be nice, ladies and gentlemen, if we could put an end to the issues that have emerged here with Parliament during the period of current affairs. Secondly, you may have seen Mr Francken's e-mail to the consul in Beirut. Do you think that's a normal way of dealing with a diplomatic post? I must say, I find the tone very familiar. That seems rather unusual to me. In addition, there is also a supervisor in the mail. That's new, too. It's a supervisor for those people, not Melikan Kucam, but another supervisor. Do you know who that was? So I would like to have some comments from you on the e-mail, which has been requested by the committee and which we have indeed received.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u44	Madam Secretary, I would like to go into a few more details. You reiterated that a number of people saved through that corridor have still not applied for asylum. I would like to emphasise once again that the instructions from the cabinet of former Secretary of State Francken were clear. That's what the hearings showed. Only Christian Syrians from Syria themselves could obtain a visa. They were, by definition, all vulnerable at that time. You say that there was no criterion, but that criterion clearly emerged in those hearings. Those visas were affixed to the Syrian passports of the persons concerned. It was primarily up to the consulate, in this case in Beirut, to check that there were no false passports. On arrival at Zaventem airport, these passports had to be checked again. That is what we were able to hear from those hearings. You use the argument that not everyone has applied for asylum as an additional argument for your argument that only UNHCR is to be used. I dare to criticize that statement. I think that's dangerous. You yourself say that we should not throw the child away with the bath water, even if you say it in a different context. It is very dangerous to work only through the UN and recognised organisations so that abuses would become impossible. If there are abuses, they certainly need to be eliminated, which I have already confirmed enough, I believe. Humanitarian organisations and NGOs, as you yourself say, are not always purely on their feet either. Mistakes exist everywhere, as I see in my OCMW, for example, and you can see that even more within your powers, but that should not be a reason to stop working with the humanitarian corridor system at all. So, as you said, let us not throw the child away with the bath water. Mr De Vriendt has made a different conclusion. He didn't hear what I did hear, namely that you...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u45	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u46	No, you said that in a different context. You have said that you wish to retain discretion. That is why I propose not to throw the child away with the bath water by abolishing the entire system of humanitarian corridors. However, we must remove the abuses. We hold that argument in all our policies. I ask you to maintain that policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u47	Mrs. Smeyers, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u48	Madam Minister, you say that you will no longer use humanitarian corridors, but the government has done its job here. So you are wrong to say that you are no longer working in this way, as the humanitarian corridor system has already been completed. The government has done its work in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u49	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answers. Nevertheless, I'm still partly hungry. That's what I'm saying, for the record, not accusing. I would, however, like to say that I am looking forward to the results of the administrative inquiry. Then, on the basis of facts and figures, we can draw a number of conclusions. Things are moving rather quickly, but unless I have misunderstood, we can conclude that there has been a doubling of humanitarian visas from 2017 to 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u50	It is a percentage doubling through the special system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u51	So that was through the special system, while in the normal system the recognition rate for Syrians fell compared to for example 2015, when the war in Syria also raged hardest for clarity. Perhaps the Commissioner-General should also consider to what extent the double nationality of people may have played a role in the degree of recognition. This can of course be an element that distorts the figures. After all, I believe that people with dual nationality often do not receive asylum because they also take account of the other nationality. Like Mr De Vriendt, I find it unlikely that people would be brought here without any subsequent registration. No guidance was organized, nor was there checked for guidance. With humanitarian visas, particularly vulnerable people, who have been in very special situations, were brought here. All control procedures have been pushed aside. So people were brought here and then they weren't looked back at. They did not even check whether they had applied for asylum. However, this did happen at the time with the corridor from Aleppo in 2015. Then they had to apply for asylum within three days. The same applies to the action coordinated by Sant'Egidio. However, these lists were not verified. The Secretary of State always talked about "strong, strict, strict." However, I find this incredibly unbelievable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u52	Mrs. De Coninck, may I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u53	Let me come back to the discussion that has just taken place on the humanitarian visa system. I'm not against humanitarian visas. I think that a minister should take responsibility and be able to argue that. He's got to be able to give us good reasons. However, one cannot predict all possible situations in the future, that is not possible. So you need a legal instrument to be able to accept your responsibility. I have absolutely no problem with that. I do have a problem with it if there is no control of the files. There must be a check or an audit possible. If, for many years, 100 to 200 humanitarian visas are issued a year, one can still check them, and if that number suddenly rises to two thousand, then one should look at what is going on. If checks had been carried out afterwards, those cases would have surfaced. We need to think about that. We must not throw the child away with the bath water, but we must ensure that the bath is not overflowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u54	Mr. President, Madam Minister, thank you for the lighting. We understand that there is a clear break between the Franken system and the much more professional way you work today. I, too, am shocked to see that the number of visas granted directly by the firm, without any criteria, without any procedure, without any motivation, without any subsequent follow-up of persons arriving in Belgium, without supervision, doubled in proportion between 2017 and 2018. You said that the percentage had increased from 20 to 40 per cent of the total number of humanitarian visas granted. We may even think that this system has put vulnerable people at the disadvantage of those who need protection. It is a particularly shocking instrumentalization. You also said that these lists were not even signed by the Secretary of State, and that you could not trace exactly the circuit of these lists within the cabinet. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that raises the question, within the framework of this political responsibility. Shouldn't we be hearing from this co-worker to find out what happened? How did she take such an initiative? How did she think she could draw up lists, receive lists, issue humanitarian visas? What delegation of authority did it have or not? Did she act on instruction or not? This procedure is becoming increasingly enormous, compared to what has been claimed to be emergency humanitarian aid. I believe that with regard to what has happened and these malfunctions, it would be very useful if we could hear this member of the cabinet. Everyone has already heard about their responsibilities in this story and their proximity to Melikam Kucam - just go on Facebook. I would like us to clarify how this ministerial cabinet operated and what it supposedly had to grant humanitarian aid, when we know today that it was a human trafficking and extortion of funds. I believe that this is a political responsibility, and we must make it clear to that person. On the other hand, Madam Minister, you have repeated - and I am quite sure you do - that too strict criteria should not be put in place for these humanitarian visas. To the extent possible, this discretion should be used while maintaining transparency. I agree with you. It is in this spirit that we have tabled a bill that is not so much about establishing criteria, but about receiving a detailed report in Parliament, in order to allow a debate on how the minister has been able to work in this area. I believe that it is in this context that we must work in the future. It is therefore, a priori, a matter of having this discretionary power with, a posteriori, the possibility of discussing it with the government. It must be possible to verify that this discretion does not turn into arbitrary power and to control its use. Last but not least, I note, Madam Minister, that you can work with trustworthy organizations and not with intermediaries. You will refuse to work with these intermediaries. As you said, this canal is closed. Good! You will work with trustworthy organizations, including and if necessary in Syria. It exists, as we know. There is no concern about that. My question about the alert was indeed related to that mail. We will see where it arrived, but Secretary of State Franken himself said that he had been informed as early as October through other channels. My question was also that one. There has obviously been a long-standing alert, since September or October, perhaps even since July or August by Mr. Van Overmeiren.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u55	I thank the minister for her response. Very briefly, I think that the administrative investigation will bring us the factual elements that we lack. The figures announced by the minister are blurring and adding questions to those we already had and for which we are still waiting for answers. This case was dealt with with with laxity. The real question today is whether this laxity was voluntary on the part of the Secretary of State and his cabinet or not? There will be political responsibility. Like my colleagues, I don't think we should throw the baby away with the bath water. This system must be preserved; probably a little marked, but I know that the minister has already held this position and there has never been any mention of similar malfunctions, or before. The problem here is not the system, but how this system was used to make selections in human despair by entrusting this to criminal organizations that made money on it. All the indignity of this file is there. I, like my colleagues, will be interested in hearing the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u56	Mr President, I have heard from the Minister about which I would like to put a small supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u57	You're not supposed to, but I'll allow it anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u58	Mr President, it will only take 20 seconds. Madam Minister, with regard to the lists that went to the consulate, you said that this was not done in a closed envelope. Is that common? You also said there was no signature on it, but the Foreigner's Act requires an authorization from the Minister, right? Isn't there an autograph required? Finally, can the Dublin Convention be applied to those people who are registered here or not, who move on and apply for asylum in a country of arrival?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u59	Mr. Chairman, Ms. Waterschoot, the government and, in this case, the Department of Foreign Affairs were aware, in 2015, of the existence of this group of 150 people in Aleppo. For the rest, the government was not aware. Mr De Vriendt, as far as I am concerned, a legislative amendment is not appropriate. I want the discretionary power to remain and I see no reason to change it if the procedures are followed, as I have done from 2011 to 2014. However, I agree with several Members that there should be greater transparency and that, for example, one can explain the figures once a year in Parliament. In this way one can show where the figures are coming from, what is in it about resolution, what the special circumstances were in countries where people would have been in danger. The press also recently spoke of an e-mail stating that a supervisor would have been designated. I don't know about that, and I haven't found any of that either. For the sake of clarity, I was not told about this when transferring one cabinet to another either. To answer Mr Dallemagne, I have never heard any rumours; I have never seen any letters. It was on the very day of the announcement of the report on Flemish television that I heard this information. That same night, I asked for an administrative investigation at the service. That's the only thing I could ask. I knew the rest would have to come through the investigation of the parquet, but I asked myself the evening about the administrative investigation because I expected questions to come. Mrs Smeyers, I never said I would work through UNHCR alone. I will also work through other trustworthy organizations. It is possible that these people were all vulnerable, but I can only see that they did not all apply for asylum. The question then is why they have not applied for asylum. Did they go to another European country? We can't know. Mr Verherstraeten asked whether the Dublin Regulation would apply to this. They come in here with a visa for humanitarian reasons. They are located in the Schengen area and can move within it. No registration is made because they are already in the Schengen area. So we cannot check where they are. Someone in the press has wondered why there is no Eurodac. Why not? Because they are already in the Schengen area and the external borders have already been crossed. There is therefore no doubt that a number of people have decided not to apply for asylum in Belgium or have moved, but at least we cannot find them. Mrs De Coninck, it is indeed a useful system. I would also like to keep it, because these are exceptional circumstances. As you yourself say, we cannot now predict what exceptional circumstances will occur next month or next year. We need greater transparency with regard to Parliament. Mr Dallemagne, as I have already said, we were not aware within the government. For Aleppo, yes, but Aleppo must be distinguished from the higher number of visas. Actions carried out with the UN were subject to an obligation to apply for asylum. In the case of Aleppo, we have seen that too, those people have all applied for asylum. After that, in some cases there was also family reunification, by the same route. So everything was traceable by the way of working. Mr Verherstraeten, I give you the information we received from the Foreign Office. That was done by e-mail, so not under closed cover. There was no signature from the Secretary of State either. I can't know because I wasn't there, I wasn't looking over his shoulder. But if the Foreign Office tells me that, I'd like to believe it. As far as Dublin is concerned, I have already answered your question. That really didn't apply and we couldn't know that either. The rest will be for next week. We'll see what can still be traced to the services. I do not have to tell you that there was no list at hand over to the cabinet. Nor was it said that there were intermediaries and I was not approached by shadowy intermediaries. Only Sant'Egidio asked for an appointment two weeks before the reportage to deal with the case of a group of vulnerable people again. Mr Devolder spoke about this. They wanted to settle that back with their community. At that time, however, I waited very much for the fact that we are still lagging behind in the resettlement process. That resettlement is a commitment of our country and we could not carry out the planned operation in 2018 because the reception system was overcrowded. So the people who were selected and had been given a promise had to wait. We are now going to make efforts to meet our commitments. I'll explain later why I need more shelter. This is necessary in order, among other things, to be able to perform a catching-up operation there. It does not, of course, make us sympathetic in the international context if we do not relocate and therefore we do not keep our commitment. We must carry out a recovery operation in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u60	Would you like to briefly replicate another member of the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, just to clarify, I would like to say that I am disappointed because you do not think that there is a need for a legislative amendment. To me, quite frankly, it is necessary, not by restricting the discretion of the Minister or the Secretary of State and thus creating an automatic right to a humanitarian visa. That's not the point. However, our proposal is designed to oblige the Minister to cooperate with recognised organisations, such as the United Nations or other organisations. This list can then be sent to Parliament, so that at least it is transparent with which organisations a corridor can be set up. We also want a certain form of parliamentary control through an annual report to Parliament and so on. Those are points that are not currently covered by the law. There is hardly anything in the foreign law on humanitarian visas. It is therefore appropriate to avoid such abuses in the future for a future minister or secretary of state, no matter who they may be. However, we must tighten up the framework without, I repeat, creating an automatic right to a humanitarian visa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u62	Madam Minister, I am surprised that the Foreign Office is responding to a request from the cabinet without the signature of the Secretary of State to grant humanitarian visas. This is a very important decision – human lives are at stake – and the Foreign Office is following an unsigned request from the firm. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u63	Mr Dallemagne, we are going to close the debate here. You can still give your reply...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u64	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u65	...but we're not gonna organize two or three rounds. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u66	It's a very simple question! I'm only asking the minister for one comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u67	You could have done the same before. You didn't do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u68	I think the minister's reaction can be very helpful to me in the debate. Is it normal for a letter not signed by a Secretary of State to be followed by an official of an administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u69	I believe that this will be reflected in the conclusion of the administrative inquiry next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u70	I can only provide you with the information I received from the Agency that there was no signature. I didn't ask why. We will provide you with answers to the questions you have asked, but I cannot tell you anything other than what the Agency has communicated to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u71	This is quite unusual and it seems to me against the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u72	This concludes the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, in taking up the files left by your predecessor, you described the state of the situation as "chaos". And that was before we were informed of the file that we've been dealing with for a long time. This is a feeling widely shared by the opposition, almost since the beginning of the legislature. The registration ceiling at the Foreign Office is an example of a policy that causes this chaotic situation for both applicants and local authorities responsible for managing public space in the vicinity of buildings. A second element clearly reflects the critical situation in which you found the instrument of asylum and migration policy. I want to talk about Fedasil's capacity today at saturation - you will tell me the current state compared to when I tabled my question - after many places have been closed, frozen, reopened, announced again as closed... all this despite the workers' urgent calls for a clear and responsive road map. And we can assume that you've discovered other files of this kind. Madam Minister, can you give us your diagnosis and outline the solutions that you intend to put in place so that, finally, Belgium can once again pursue a policy of asylum and migration worthy of that name?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, my predecessor had introduced a quota of fifty applicants a day, but in the meantime, the Council of State has told us in its opinion that this measure is illegal. Indeed, everyone has the right to register an application for international protection. This process resulted in long queues and chaos in front of the Petit-Château, which caused not only nuisances in the neighbourhood, but also unworthy situations in the streets of Brussels. This was a measure taken for the sake of public order and for the well-being of the persons concerned. That is why I directly ended this quota, especially since it was illegal. Since then, we have again managed to register and welcome the same day the applicants for international protection. I also hope that asylum applications will be processed more quickly. Thus, the persons concerned are more quickly determined on their fate. There is better management of the exits from the reception network and we can also proceed more quickly to the expulsion of persons who have not received recognition. To allow the reception, my services immediately went to work in order to create additional reception places because, of course, for a few months the network was oversaturated. Five hundred reserve seats have been activated, so queues have disappeared in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u75	Minister, thank you for the frankness of your answer. Indeed, you finally say what the opposition has denounced for many months by its many questions. I am pleased that the situation has improved and that reception places have been reopened. As you said yourself, we have experienced humanly unworthy situations simply because of the wish of the Secretary of State who preceded you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament 28089 by Mrs Grovonius will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u77	Mr President, Minister, in March 2018, your predecessor commissioned the closure of a significant part of the local reception initiatives, abbreviated the LOLs, within the framework of the phasing-out plan of the reception network. Our group has always warned against a much too rapid reduction in reception capacity, certainly and above all for individual reception. The LOLs offer clear qualitative added value, but are more difficult to activate in the short term. Local authorities conclude a lot of local contracts for the LOIs and an overly brutal closure naturally confronts the local authorities with the necessary problems. We have therefore proposed to maintain a buffer capacity, for example for asylum seekers in the context of resettlement, transit homes or homeless care. The LOIs and local authorities have a great deal of uncertainty about the future, partly because of measures you have announced, including the re-creation of additional reception capacity. That is why I have questions about the role of the LOIs in this matter. Madam Secretary, what is the current situation of the network of local reception initiatives? How many places are left and how many places were there in early 2018? What role can the LOIs play for you? Will you be able to quickly remove the ambiguity with the local OMCWs regarding the closure and future of the LOIs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u78	Madam Minister, you have been able to announce your intention to suspend the closure of places in collective reception centres. However, it should be noted that many municipalities and CPAS in the country have invested and made available individual housing for asylum seekers as part of local reception initiatives (ILA). Your predecessor, very timid with regard to individual reception, suggested that he intended to close places in this network, too, even though there were still places available. What about today? Do you intend to maintain ILA spaces and related funding? Or, on the contrary, do you intend to keep this system in a logic of accompaniment and integration as close as possible to asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u79	Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, things have been a little strange with regard to the LOI places. At the beginning of January, the phasing-out would reduce conventional capacity to 5 300 places, coming from 9 870 places early 2018. In December, Fedasil sent two communications to the LOIs. The first is to present the transitional measures for persons still in the places which were to close after the dismantling planned by my predecessor and to propose that they conclude a new agreement for these extended places or to create additional places. On the ground, this caused confusion, but on 7 February 2019 there were 6 197 places. We have thus been able to prevent the closure of 1 000 places. With these communications, the biggest uncertainties for the LOIs were removed. I would like, as in the past, to provide for some collective care, but also to retain a role for individual care, as laid down in the government agreement. Such reception is primarily for vulnerable groups and then for applicants for international protection with a high level of protection. I will continue this policy, in accordance with the coalition agreement. If we create places in collective care, we will also recreate them in individual care, albeit on a voluntary basis. There are plenty of cities and municipalities that want to go into that again. Because of the special character of the individual places, we will continue to respect the relationship that used to exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u80	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It's reassuring in several ways. We certainly need to restore balance. There is also a need for more policy predictability and more certainty with regard to local authorities, so that the commitments they make can also be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u81	Briefly, I will go in the same direction as my colleague. I am reassured by the minister's answers. They differ somewhat from what we have heard so far. It is essential for the municipalities and CPAS that have invested in this type of dynamic, to have certainties to project themselves in the future and to organise themselves at best.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u82	Madam President, Minister, there is no need to trace here the tragedy experienced by the parents of little Mawda Shawri, who died during a police operation last May. The various investigations conducted by Committee P were announced to Parliament. I think they were introduced last week. We can only hope that these investigations will help shed light on the circumstances of this tragedy and that justice will be done in this case, even if I have just read in a Belga communiqué that a second inquiry by Committee P will be launched. Nevertheless, in the wake of these events, if the family of this two-year-old girl was received by Mr Michel, the question of whether she was able to enjoy a permanent status in Belgium does not seem to have been clarified. I know it has been in the press, but you will understand that we want to know the details here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u83	I would like you to provide us with information on the situation of this family. Can you tell me whether Mawda Shawri's family has obtained a status allowing him to reside permanently in Belgium? What are the different elements of the file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u84	Minister, on May 17, 2018, a two-year-old child died in dramatic circumstances because of a bullet fired by a police officer during a migrant check-up. The event is to be placed in the context of the illegal hunting logic, put in place for months by the previous government. Several procedures are under way to shed all the light on the facts. The Mons Public Prosecutor's Office is in charge of the judicial investigation of police fire, while the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office deals with the trafficking of human beings. Committee P has completed an initial investigation into the prosecution period, and a second is in the process of being finalized. It deals with Myria's complaint and is related to the arrest of migrants. Both investigations are progressing, but the judicial component is expected to take longer. Since that terrible death, the girl's family had been in a Kafkai situation: both obliged to remain in the territory, in order to follow the trial in which it became a civil party, and also under an order to leave the territory, which the government, in its manstudy, had undertaken not to execute. The family filed an application for regularization for exceptional circumstances in May 2018. Without regularization, this family could neither work nor gain access to CPAS. Thanks to citizen solidarity, this family has been able to live so far. The Brussels court has, fortunately, just handed down a judgment binding the CPAS of Woluwe-Saint-Pierre to take over the family. For your part, you have just granted the family a one-year humanitarian visa. Minister, my questions are as follows. Why did the procedure for granting a humanitarian visa last nine months, when the situation of this family, which is in great distress, is well known? Why did you grant a one-year visa? What will be the conditions for renewal? Is there any prospect of a permanent residence permit for this family? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u85	Madam Secretary, you have decided to regularize the parents of the deceased toddler Mawda. For the time being, they will be granted a one-year residence permit, which may subsequently be renewed. You have that discretion, so that is entirely possible. You have stated that the family is eligible for regularisation in all areas, despite the negative advice of the Foreign Office. That negative advice was based on the fact that the family refused to enter into the procedure for victims of trafficking in human beings, thus not cooperating with the public prosecutor and other services in the investigation of trafficking in human beings. Let me be clear, losing a child is the worst thing that can happen to parents. It is to their credit that you give them the opportunity to follow closely the investigation into the death of their daughter and thus begin their grieving process. But I believe that we should be careful and that empathy can in some cases be a poor advisor, especially in the difficult department of Asylum and Migration. Your decision may not give false hope, but it can. It can create expectations for others who have been living in illegality for years. You have just said that you have only had to do two regularizations since your arrival. I hope that the case referred to does not set a precedent. You are actually saying that, for example, refusal to enter the standard procedure cannot be a reason to refuse a certain regularisation or a residence permit. You indicate that people can still be rewarded despite the conditions we impose, namely to participate in certain investigations into trafficking in human beings. What is more, you reward the family with a humanitarian visa, while the Dublin Convention, with its return to Germany, was not respected. I can understand you on the one hand, but I hope you are aware of the possible precedent. Under what other rules are they indeed not rules of law, since this is a favor, despite the negative advice of the Foreign Affairs Office, did you give a visa? Can you explain in detail why, in your opinion, the parents meet all the conditions required to qualify for that humanitarian visa? Why was the couple not sent back to Germany, as prescribed by the Dublin Convention? How will you ensure that future victims of trafficking who will also refuse to cooperate do not apply on the basis of Article 9a? I fear that you will set a precedent if you do not communicate clearly that you do not wish to go into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u86	Madam Secretary, I hope you will answer the last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I decided to grant a residence permit on the basis of Article 9a of the Aliens Act. Mrs Smeyers, I do believe that the circumstances of the family are so exceptional that the regularisation of their stay is justified for humanitarian reasons. The family lost a daughter of a few years old by a bullet fired by the police, although they were transported by a country and are therefore themselves responsible. But these circumstances do not create a precedent. What would be the precedent value? Could it be that a child should first be lost by a bullet so that it can be humanitarianly regularized? We are all human; many of us have children. Who would be willing to sacrifice a child to stay in a country? So I do not think there is any precedent. To those who attribute this precedent, I reply that the examination of the circumstances of their daughter's death and the admission of mourning are the essential elements of this decision. DVZ did indeed first give a negative opinion. When I came to the department two months ago, I also asked for other advice. On the basis of these opinions, I made my decision. I assess all the files, including the files of potential victims of trafficking in human beings, individually and take into account the specific circumstances and facts. Moreover, one cannot blame those involved for not wanting to cooperate immediately in the process of trafficking in human beings, because they are still in shock because of the loss of their child. Rules must be respected, but we must remain human. That's a small requirement, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u88	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u89	Madam Minister, I thank you for the absolutely necessary humanity that you have shown. It seems to me that this is far from being a reward, as I was able to hear in this assembly. As far as the question of why the procedure lasted so long is concerned, I understand that you reacted as soon as you took up your duties. From there to think that there was an ideological blockage, there is only one step. You have not answered the question of what the conditions for renewal will be. In my view, judicial proceedings will not necessarily be completed after a year. Moreover, since their child is buried in Belgium, should we not consider allowing them, of course if they wish, to remain in our territory for humanitarian reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u90	Madam Secretary, you have made your point. I hope you didn't want to insinuate that I wanted to suggest something else. I was mainly concerned with the cooperation which they refused. You will have to be clear on that. You have explained that the fact that they initially did not want or could not cooperate was, in your opinion, and perhaps rightly, a result of the unnameable suffering they had to endure at that time and still have to deal with. You explain that well. I only hope that you will communicate this very clearly to the outside world and to the other applicants. I do not need to repeat that, if you open a gate, you must be careful to close it again in time, especially in the department that you are now in charge of again. These are very exceptional circumstances. Let us hope that no one will find himself in a similar situation, so that there is no precedent. You will have to be consistent in such situations. That was my only concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u91	Mrs. Smeyers, I'm not known for opening gates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u92	Since Mrs Matz was ill, she could not come and ask her question No. 28218. Question No 28556 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Lanjri's 28224 and 28225 have been converted into written questions. Question No 28234 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is also transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u93	Minister, on December 10, the Prime Minister held a speech in Marrakech in support of the Pact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration. In particular, we note this strong statement among the elements that motivate him to support this text, I quote: "This conviction that universal values, which transcend borders and embody for every human being this dignity, this fundamental respect and finally this thirst for freedom, this idea that each and every one of us carries of course duties, of course responsibilities, but also rights because we belong to the human community." Perhaps the European Commission had these words in mind on 8 January when it asked Belgium to welcome 49 migrants stranded in Maltese waters on two NGO ships. If that is the case, the Commission authorities must have been disappointed to hear that the Kern of 8 January refused this request, as the press echoed the following day. Minister, do you confirm that Belgium has been asked to welcome these 49 people? Do you confirm that Kern has made a negative response to this request? If so, can you give us the reasons for this refusal? Can you also tell us whether initiatives have been taken at European level to resolve the increasingly dramatic issue of closing ports to ships conducting humanitarian operations in the Mediterranean with the sole aim of putting an end as much as possible to the countless drownings taking place at the borders of the Union? Where appropriate, what is Belgium's attitude towards these initiatives and what concrete follow-up is given to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u94	Madam, first of all, I would like to point out that Member States with maritime borders have obligations under international humanitarian and maritime law. They are obliged to let in ships which, in accordance with their international obligations, have saved people from drowning. We expect these countries to comply with their obligations. The Belgian Government was indeed asked to welcome some of the refugees who had arrived by boat. The government's view is twofold. First, the government must be cautious in its day-to-day business. Secondly, we do not want any ad hoc measures. We hope that a comprehensive and long-term solution will be sought for the management of migration flows in Europe. Proposals for a comprehensive solution have been on the table for more than two years. These are proposals to reform the European asylum system in Dublin. These proposals were supported by Belgium. Belgium has also made several attempts within the Council to reach a compromise on this matter. For the time being, negotiations have been deadlocked. In this context, a discussion took place on 7 February at the European Council with a view to finding an interim solution focusing mainly on the problem of landings at European maritime borders. Belgium is also ready to engage in these discussions. We want to stand in solidarity with the Member States at the external borders. In this context, Belgium is also prepared to consider further solidarity efforts, but only if such a solution implies a balance between solidarity and responsibility. We also want political guarantees that these countries will stop blocking the necessary changes to the Dublin asylum system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u95	Thank you, minister, for your answers. There are indeed obligations for those Member States which have maritime borders. We know, for example, that Italy does not respect them. I understand Belgium's willingness to participate in discussions and dialogue in a balanced framework, but Belgium should already comply with the quotas imposed on it, which until recently had not been filled. The first of the responsibilities and the first duty of humanity would be to respect ourselves our obligations before imposing on others to respect their own.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u96	Debates of the European Parliament 28337 by Mrs Smeyers has been withdrawn from her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u97	Madam Minister, recent reports are relative, because this question, too, dates back to 15 January, suggests that the persecution of the holebibi in Chechnya is again fully resumed or simply continues unabated. However, the Chechen President denies that organized manhunts are being held to prosecute his subjects for their sexual orientation. In April last year, Secretary of State Francken granted five humanitarian visas to Chechen citizens who, because of their orientation, were in danger of life in their own country. Since December, the state-organised violence against holebi's in Chechnya has flared up again. During the most recent raids two people were killed and forty injured. Madam Secretary, what is the status of these files? Can you inform us of what you have or have had to do in the meantime on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u98	Ms. Smeyers, in August and September 2017, five humanitarian visas were issued to people from Chechnya at the instructions of my predecessor through the Moscow Embassy. I am currently not aware of any new applications in this context. If new applications are submitted, they will be examined by my administration, like any other application for a humanitarian visa. Furthermore, there is no communication on any individual files. So we have not received any new applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u99	Madam Secretary, I have no reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u100	Minister, your predecessor and the government of which you are still a member have decided to close more than 6,000 reception spaces in the asylum-seekers' accommodation network. As a result of this decision, several centres had to close their doors or remain uncertain about their future, as evidenced by the answers to various questions posed by my group. Among these centres, the one in Neder-Over-Heembeek must close its doors following the non-renewal by Fedasil of the convention which mandated the Samusocial for the management of 250 pre-reception places. Unfortunately, this closure results in the departure of 31 workers. The Renault procedure has been initiated. However, management hoped that the closure of the centre would be carried out in a gradual manner and under the best possible conditions for workers and residents. This closure, like all the others, is a nightmare, both for the residents who relied on these reception places and for the workers who cared about their work. Minister, now that you have taken over the jurisdiction of asylum and migration, there are a number of questions. What about the closure of this centre? Where are resident persons being redirected? What about the workers? What solutions have been proposed to resolve their situation? Has the closure been phased in? In view of the dire needs for reception, will new places compensate for these closures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u101	Mrs Ben Hamou, thank you for your question. The Samusocial, at the request of the Agency, organised the pre-reception prior to the submission of the asylum application since November 2015 on the Bejar site of Neder-Over-Heembeek. With the entry into service of the arrival centre in the Petit-Château at the beginning of December, this reception mission became moot. Consequently, the last convention on this subject has not been extended. Most residents were transferred to other collective centres within the host network. For information, the Samusocial will use this site as a temporary reception place to accommodate the residents of its Fritz Toussaint center, waiting for a new reception place. The buildings on Rue Fritz Toussaint were no longer suitable for the reception of applicants for international protection. In addition, 100 buffer places were activated at the Béjar centre. In terms of personnel, Samusocial is responsible. I have nothing to say about that. In its ambition to create additional capacity, the Council of Ministers decided, before the Christmas holidays, to activate the 1,500 buffer places, including the Samusocial places mentioned. The Council of Ministers also decided to open 650 reception places per month from February to June. Fedasil is busy making this decision operational. However, with the administration, I am continuing to monitor whether this additional capacity is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u102	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to return in particular to the issue of workers. You're telling me that their status and commitment depend on Samusocial. You actually confirm to me that Samusocial hired the workers. That's what you're telling me. So they're linked to Samusocial.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u103	Yes, of course. They don't depend on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u104	The Béjar Centre is currently still open, while the people who worked there have been dismissed. The center is not closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u105	The Béjar Centre is still open. It was Fritz Toussaint's one that was closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u106	But it happens that the staff of the Béjar Centre were dismissed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u107	I don't know. I am not in charge of personnel management. The Fritz Toussaint center had to close its doors and asked us to be able to place people in the Bejar center. There's still staff in Béjar.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u108	But there are no more workers. The staff who worked there were dismissed. A Renault procedure has been initiated. So where does the staff sent today to the Bejar Centre come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u109	The management contract for the pre-reception mission has been completed. But they also needed this center because Fritz Toussaint's had to close. It's not our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u110	Was it not possible to have a collaboration with Samusocial?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u111	There were two separate conventions for the Fritz Toussaint and Béjar centres. We closed the pre-accommodation squares in Béjar. The Fritz Toussaint centre was no longer fit; that is why the convention was denounced.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u112	Madam President, Madam Minister, while I was looking forward to your predecessor's departure, I learned in the press that you were considering re-evaluating the status of refugees from the Gaza Strip. Currently, most requests for international protection of Gazans are systematically accepted, but you would apparently want to challenge this right. Minister, do you intend to review the status of the Gaza refugees? If so, how do you justify this choice? Are people currently residing on Belgian territory at risk of losing their right of residence? Do you think the situation in Gaza has changed? That would then justify your decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u113	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I have indeed asked the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) to give an opinion on the possibility of ending the refugee status of Palestinians in Gaza because of changes in their country of origin. I sought this opinion following the announcement by CGRA of a review of its policy on the processing of asylum applications by Palestinians in Gaza. In doing so, it relied on the evolution of the situation on the ground and concluded that their refugee status would now be less widely recognized. As to whether Palestinians recognized as refugees risk losing their status or right of residence, two aspects should be distinguished. On the one hand, I would like to point out that the repeal of refugee status as such is provided for in section 55/3 of the Act of 15 December 1980, known as the Aliens Act, which states that the change in circumstances which may put an end to the status must be sufficiently significant and not provisional. On the other hand, as regards the right of residence available to the refugee person, it is necessary to check whether the refugee has a right of residence of limited duration or unlimited duration. Article 11 of the Aliens Act allows the Minister or his delegate to terminate the right of residence of a refugee whose status has been abrogated, to the extent that that right is limited in time. In any event, it is up to CGRA to examine whether the situation in Gaza has changed to such an extent that the repeal is justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u114	Minister, I can understand the CGRA's opinions. However, in the light of the current situation, I do not really have the impression that the situation of the Palestinians in Gaza has changed or improved. Therefore, I am rather surprised at this decision and the turnaround. That is why I will not fail to return to you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u115	Madam President, Minister, the news has gone a little unnoticed because of the humanitarian visa scandal. Belgium was condemned on Tuesday 15 January 2014 by the Court of Justice of the European Union for not transposing the Directive of 26 February 2014 on seasonal workers. An action for failure to fulfil obligations had been brought by the European Commission on 30 October 2018. The 2014 Directive was to be transposed by the Member States by September 2016. Your predecessor, Theo Francken, was in charge of bringing Belgian law into conformity. Mr Franken did not comply with this European obligation. The Directive aims to contribute to the proper management of migration flows as regards the specific category of seasonal temporary immigration, as well as to ensure decent working and living conditions for these seasonal workers by establishing fair and transparent rules on admission and residence and defining the rights of seasonal workers, while providing incentives and guarantees to ensure that the period of authorised stay is not exceeded or that a temporary stay is transformed into a permanent stay. In its judgment, the Court of Justice of the European Union ordered Belgium to join the ranks and imposed a substantial penalty payment of EUR 50 000 per day between the date of that judgment and the transposition. This will quickly represent a large expenditure, far from the "goed bestuur" principle advocated by the N-VA, but also by the government. In concrete terms, in ten days this amounts to half a million euros; in a hundred days, that is, by the time of the elections, it amounts to 5 million euros. We have learned informally that Belgium is due to file a defence brief on 5 February. This document should not be made public unless it is mistaken. Minister, what position has Belgium taken in its brief? When will Belgium comply?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u116	Mrs Waterschoot, the European Commission has brought an action for failure to fulfil obligations before the Court of Justice of the European Union on 30 October 2018 against Belgium for incomplete transposition of the directive you are referring to. We are not yet at the sentencing stage. A defence was actually filed on 5 February 2019. This action for failure to fulfil obligations is therefore still pending and judicial proceedings are ongoing. The European Commission's reply submission is due on 18 March 2019. Our institutional rules required the competent federal and federated authorities to conclude cooperation agreements before they could adopt certain measures for the transposition of the "seasonal" directive, in particular in the context of the transposition of the so-called "single permit" directive. This process took time. As you know, our country is not simple. Following the entry into force, on 3 January 2019, of the legislation ensuring full transposition of the Single Permit Directive, the European Commission withdrew its appeal in extremis. That's good news. The non-transposition of the "seasonal" directive is therefore not the result of Belgium's refusal to comply with its European obligations, but rather of procedural difficulties. As soon as I took charge of the Asylum and Migration Department, I ensured, in consultation with the relevant political partners, that the necessary measures were taken as a matter of urgency with a view to transposing the "seasonal" directive. The text was finalized at the end of January. It was discussed and validated in intercabinet on February 6. The legislative process is ongoing. The European Commission is informed of developments. So we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u117	Madam Minister, thank you. It seems that I was given incorrect information about the January 15 conviction. I'm going to check this out, because it was someone who was well-informed who had alerted me about it. I therefore welcome the fact that there are no periodic penalty payments that we, as well as the citizen, should pay. I see you're putting Mr. Franken's department in order, including this. It seems to me that it is a very important tool. Fruit picking will begin and there is an urgent need to establish conditions for workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u118	It's a difficult case. In 2011, Mrs De Coninck and I worked on this subject. Mrs De Coninck was Minister of Employment and I was competent for Asylum and Migration. Eight years later, fortunately, we are in the final phase. But it's not obvious. It's really a complicated file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u119	I understand that it is complex - and particularly in Belgium. But you know like me that there are illegal or uncomfortable situations for seasonal workers, whether they have papers or not. There are grey work situations in which people sign a discharge of their wages but agree to receive a lower sum in cash. Others are paid by kilo or cash, which is completely illegal. There are also undocumented persons among these workers, who are sometimes employed by unscrupulous employers who house them, feed them and may threaten them with expulsion. I believe that there is an urgent need for a legal and judicial framework to prevent such abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u120	Madam Minister, last year Spain became the most important arrival country for illegal migration by sea. Under the current Dublin rules, the country is therefore responsible for handling asylum applications. The German magazine Welt am Sonntag has published a recent study in mid-January which shows that the Spanish authorities are doing little to monitor the enforcement of these rules. They are making even less effort, if possible, to prevent illegal immigrants from travelling to northern Europe. According to the research, the Spanish government organises and finances bus transfers from Andalusia to the north of the country. From there it goes further north to the other European countries and perhaps also this country. This reminds us of the way Italy sent refugees to Germany a few years ago, with EUR 500 and a travel pass, which allowed them to travel legally to any Schengen country for three months. The investigation in Die Welt also points out that the German safety authorities are very dissatisfied with the fact that the registration of new immigrants in Spain would not go entirely according to the rules. In Germany there were already voices for a firm response. My questions to you, Madam Secretary, are as follows. First of all, can you confirm this course of action? Is it true that the Spanish authorities are taking such bus trips to the north of the country? Secondly, is the Belgian Government aware of the complaints about the lack of registration in Spain? If so, has the Belgian Government already protested to the Spanish authorities against this? Thirdly, has the Belgian Government already raised this matter at European level? If not, is the government prepared to examine these reports and also contact, for example, the German safety authorities, which are planning to do so? In the meantime, I have heard from the cabinet that the answers to my questions 4 and 5 contain so much data that it was not possible to look them up in time. I had these questions converted into a written question. I hope I can get an answer to that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u121	Mrs Pas, thank you for understanding that all the figures you asked for were not immediately available, as the people of the Cabinet and DVZ are also working on other matters. As far as bus travel in Spain is concerned, DVZ has informed me not to be aware of this. DVZ is aware of an increase in the number of applicants for international protection coming through Spain to our country. The Foreign Affairs Office also notes that the registration of persons entering Europe illegally through Spain is not going well. Belgium has already pointed this out on several occasions, both in European working groups and at high level at European Councils. I have also raised the problem of secondary migration at the last Council, where we are always arguing that the countries at the external borders should also assume their responsibilities under the current Dublin rules. However, we also support the proposals on new Dublin rules, which have been on the table for two years and which strike a good balance between responsibility and solidarity. I also said that the number of people entering our country through secondary migration, as well as Germany, the Netherlands and France, is higher than the number of people arriving in Spain. It goes without saying that I will continue to monitor the situation in Spain, the problems surrounding the Dublin rules and secondary migration and continue to address them at European level. You will receive the statistical information in response to your written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u122	Madam Minister, despite the fact that I have not yet received the concrete figures on questions 4 and 5, DVZ confirms the increase in the number of asylum seekers in Spain and the resulting secondary migration to other countries. I will wait and see the actual figures. I also note that you are not aware of a lack of registration in Spain or of those bus journeys organised and financed by Spain. You did not go into my suggestion to have that examined, just as the German services did. If that is true, then that is a matter which should be clearly protested not only in Spain itself, but also at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u123	Joined Questions Nos 28471 and 28471 De Vriendt, 28552 by Ms Lanjri, 28558 and 28730 by Ms Fernandez Fernandez and 28852 by Ms Smeyers are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u124	Madam Secretary, Morocco does not want to take back the radicalized Mustapha Bali, forcing the Moroccan man with a particularly serious criminal record to be released in Belgium. The facts for which he was convicted are not least, among other things, drug facts and the rape of a weakly gifted woman. Former Secretary of State Theo Francken withdrew Mustapha Bali's residence papers for repatriation to his home country Morocco. However, we are now finding that, despite a lot of efforts, Morocco does not want to provide him with travel documents. In the meantime, the maximum retention period of eight months has been reached, which meant that the Department of Foreign Affairs had to release Mustapha Bali. Madam Secretary, you inherited the file, but what efforts have you made, first of all, or were you able to make in the negotiations with Morocco on the repatriation of the named person? Secondly, how is it that such repatriation, despite bilateral agreements previously concluded between Belgium and Morocco, is so difficult and ultimately failing? Thirdly, what will you do to rectify the situation, especially given that the person's residence papers have been withdrawn? Fourthly, will you do something to avoid such abuses in general, not only for Moroccan nationals residing illegally, but also for illegal criminals from other countries of origin?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u125	Mrs Smeyers, for eight months, the Department of Foreign Affairs, my predecessor and myself tried to obtain travel documents for the person concerned. Former Secretary of State Francken and myself have addressed us directly with our question to the competent authorities. There were repeated contacts at all levels with Moroccan consular, diplomatic and central authorities. Since there was a chance that a travel document would be delivered at the last minute, the person was detained until the last legally possible day of detention. The maximum retention period for disposal shall be eight months. Prior to the termination of detention, the police and intelligence services were informed of this. The person concerned was held for a little less than seven months when I took over the department. I invited the ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco to my cabinet in order to move on the concrete dossier. However, that was not possible. Nor does an agreement or memorandum of understanding with a third country guarantee the issue of travel documents. It is a good thing, but it does not guarantee the issue of travel documents. The Memorandum of Understanding concluded with Morocco does not give any results for long-stayers or born here in Belgium. The ambassador pointed out on several occasions that it was exactly one of those people. After a person's exemption, the identification procedure continues to run. It is only when an embassy or consulate gives the agreement to issue a travel document that the removal of the territory becomes possible. In the meantime, the person concerned must comply with the order to leave the territory which was served on him. Moreover, it is not the case that the person concerned cannot obtain a travel document from his embassy or consulate, if DVZ fails to do so. This dossier once again demonstrates the importance of making international agreements on asylum and return. I am also thinking of agreements such as the well-known Global Compact for Migration. I also believe that a general international legal obligation for countries to take back their own nationals would be a very good thing. It goes without saying, therefore, that we must continue to work on this path of international cooperation, both bilaterally and supranationally. On the other hand, cooperation with the diplomatic services of the Kingdom of Morocco is proceeding fairly smoothly. As regards this person, the fact that he had stayed here for so long and that he had indeed dual nationality, until Belgian nationality was taken away, was a reason for them not to want to take that man back. He wanted to go himself, he has said that several times in the closed center. But they didn't want him back. It's a bizarre situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u126	Madam Secretary, that is indeed a very bizarre situation. Did I misunderstand? Until your last sentence, however, I was convinced. He has an order to leave the territory. So basically, he can go back voluntarily, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u128	So he wants to go back. So we just have to hope that he returns voluntarily?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u129	That's the only chance we have. He has said several times in the closed center that he prefers to go back and build another life there. After all, he's been in prison for a long time. He can ask for his own. He can ask himself to return to his country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u130	I hope he knows. Otherwise, he'll have to read the report. Madam Minister, in fact we are again exposing the pain of dual nationality. It should be possible to withdraw Belgian nationality in the event of a person having dual nationality. I hope that we can make the need a virtue and put this issue back on the agenda. I am pleased that you reassure us that otherwise the agreements reached with Morocco, which have also cost blood, sweat and tears, are being honoured and that this is a very exceptional case. We must, however, open up to the debate on double nationality. I'm very careful about that. I also know the legal limits. They keep making us spin in circles. It is a frustrating situation, I think you agree with me on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u131	Madam President, Minister, I do not want to point the finger at you with this question, nor do I want to say that it was all better in the past and it was all bad now, since I could have just as well put this oral question to your predecessor. I ask this question in response to the letter sent to you by the Order of Flemish Baries and Avocats.be, in which they deplore the poor accessibility of the Foreign Office. Insufficient communication has been in place for a long time, but they write this letter in concrete terms following the recent removal of the Foreign Affairs Office. They probably waited for that move and hoped that the accessibility would improve, but apparently that is not the case. Now it would seem that those responsible for the specific dossiers would no longer be reachable at all. According to the lawyers, this has to do with the poor technical equipment for telephony, but I do not know if that claim is true, so I hope you will be able to explain it in a moment. Moreover, according to the lawyers, the contact details lists are not correct. Going by personally is certainly not possible, which I still understand. The letterwriters generally complain about the Foreign Affairs Office, according to them the most inaccessible administration. Madam Minister, is it true that the technical infrastructure, especially telephones, is inadequate? Is it true that the available data lists do not match the actual organization chart and that it is virtually impossible to visit the Foreign Office personally? If so, what will you do to improve communication with the Foreign Office? How will you make it a more transparent administrative service?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u132	Minister, on 25 January, the Orde van Vlaamse Balies and avocats.be sent you a letter concerning the difficulties they are encountering, as well as active NGOs, on immigration matters, when they need in the performance of their duties to contact the processing agents of the Office of Foreigners. These difficulties concern both telephone communications, it seems since the move in autumn 2018 and the installation of a new telephone system, and the impossibility of being received. The interrogators point out that not being able to refer to a file, at the headquarters of the Office of Foreigners or by telephone, leads to negative decisions by your administration, simply because of lack of information. Since the agents are unattainable, these decisions cannot be rectified and the result is lengthy, sometimes unnecessary, costly and time-consuming remedies, both for lawyers and for litigants, even for the agents of the Office; in the end, for society as a whole. This results in unnecessary expenditure. Minister, do you confirm the difficulties of telephone communication mentioned? How do you intend to solve them? Do you confirm that it is rarely possible for interested lawyers and NGOs to be received by processing agents in order to provide useful information to a file? What are the causes of this inaccessibility? Is she wanted? If not, how do you intend to act to improve the situation and restore communication with the Agency? Do you have any information on the number of meetings between representatives of professional civil society and Agency staff in the context of asylum cases, and on the premises of the Office? Is it possible for you to identify the number of appeals for lack of information, as mentioned by the Bar Associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u133	Madam President, Mrs Smeyers, which could lead to a move. As you know, in November, the Foreign Office moved to a renovated building on the Pachecolaan, directly across my cabinet. This building is adapted by the Government of the Buildings to a modernised way of working. The service is aware of a number of very serious inconveniences. As the DVZ has a high priority for accessibility and good service provision, an analysis was made of a number of problems related to the start-up. In addition to solving a number of technical problems, the DVZ's infodesk has been strengthened and services per department will also be explained about the new method of operation, with the aim of ensuring the accessibility of the service at any time. Ms. Waterschoot, as I told Ms. Smeyers, the Agency is aware of the problems. As I have also pointed out, a series of measures have been taken to address these problems and to improve services to clients, in particular by strengthening the Infodesk and the accessibility of the various services. With regard to the accessibility of the Agency, I would like to make it clear that there is certainly no deliberate intention to make the services of the Office of Foreigners inaccessible. I can assure you that accessibility and the provision of good quality services are a top priority for the Agency. It's hard to know who the people who called and didn't get an answer. We do not have the numbers of meetings between representatives of civil society and staff of the Office, nor the number of appeals for lack of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u134	Madam Minister, if the problem is sufficiently known and resolved quickly, I believe that we can catalogue it under the heading of 'child diseases'. Maybe you can answer the phone yourself as a neighbor, but I don't think this is advisable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u135	With me, the phone also rings a lot. The fact that the disability service has not been available for months has also made the telephone ring with us more. We're in the same tower. The people who couldn't get to the service in question also called my cabinet. However, I am not responsible for this disability service. This has taken more than a few months, by the way. They are now recruiting staff for the call centre, but we were overburdened as well. I didn't get upset, but it happened a lot. Even we have therefore had to employ additional staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u136	On the other hand, it is good that all these services are so accessible and easily accessible, but that sometimes causes some inconvenience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u137	Mrs. Waterschoot might have a thought, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u138	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I see the problems have been analysed. This is a first step, but there is no schedule for solving these problems. I am concerned because we are also aware of the difficulties encountered in the administration of disabled people, which have been widely mentioned in this Parliament. It is a second administration that works badly, which is not accessible to vulnerable people. From there to read signs of weakening services to the weakest in our society, there is only one step that I am unfortunately taking, as other citizens do. Weakening public services to demonstrate their ineffectiveness is a well-known technique. It is done on the backs of the weakest in disregard of equal treatment. I find this difficult to accept. I therefore encourage you to act as quickly as possible to make the Office of Foreigners accessible, so as also to put an end to the waste of time and money of lawyers and NGOs in these cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u139	Madam Secretary, you said you could stay until 6:00. It is 6 p.m. and we still have seven questions on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u140	I have a next meeting at 7 p.m. but not in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-20-54-commissie-ic1043x.u141	Then we shall end the committee meeting.
