ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 April 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick, Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mr Bert Wollants and Mrs Griet Smaers) amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and other pipelines, the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Programme Act of 27 April 2007, Nos 3563/1 to 10. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mrs Fabienne Winckel and Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois, Laurent Devin, Eric Thiébaut, Alain Mathot, Emir Kir and Jacques Chabot) amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market and the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gas-like products and other pipelines with a view to extending access to the social tariff, Nos 3191/1 to 3. -the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 26 June 2002 on the closure of undertakings, Nos 3620/1 to 3. - the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers, Mrs Leen Dierick, Mr Isabelle Galant and Mr Nele Lijnen, Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) laying down various provisions on economics, Nos 3570/1 to 8. - the bill (Mrs Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) containing various tax provisions 2019-I, Nos 3699/1 to 5. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq, Mr Raf Terwingen and Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Richard Miller, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mr Georges Dallemagne) establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, Nos 3670/1 to 10. - the draft law approving the 2005 Protocol to the Convention on combating unlawful conduct against maritime safety, made in London on 14 October 2005, Nos 3660/1 to 3. - the draft law approving the 2005 Protocol to the Protocol against unlawful conduct against the safety of fixed platforms on the continental shelf, made in London on 14 October 2005, Nos 3663/1 to 3. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Laurette Onkelinx, Mr André Frédéric and Mr Willy Demeyer, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Sébastian Pirlot and Mr Eric Thiébaut) on first aid training for police officers, Nos 1906/1 to 5. - the draft law amending the Law of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data, Nos 3652/1 to 3. - the draft law amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 as regards the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security, Nos 3659/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr André Frédéric, Mr Emmanuel Burton, Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mr Patrick Dewael, Mrs Monica De Coninck and Mrs Catherine Fonck, and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Franky Demon) to reform the right of petition, Nos 3542/1 to 4. - the draft law amending the Act of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security as regards the processing of personal data, Nos 3639/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter, Mr Gautier Calomne, Mrs Sonja Becq, Mrs Sophie De Wit and Mr Sarah Smeyers and Mr Philippe Goffin and Mr Raf Terwingen) amending the law of 17 May 2006 concerning the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the procedures for the enforcement of penalties for the custodial sentences of three years or less, Nos 3527/1 to 8. - the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) on the granting of a lump sum to persons suffering from congenital malformations resulting from the taking of medicines containing thalidomide by the mother during pregnancy, Nos 3622/1 to 9. - the proposal (Mr David Clarinval and Mrs Stéphanie Thoron and Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) for the recognition of carers, Nos 95/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Anne Dedry and Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, and Mrs Sarah Schlitz) amending the rules on the safeguarding of the social rights of carers, Nos 1001/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez) on the social recognition of carers, Nos 120/1 and 2. - the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck) for the recognition of carers, Nos 625/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Meryame Kitrir) extending the reimbursement and duration of leave for medical assistance to heavily dependent family members, Nos 3359/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Valerie Van Peel, Catherine Fonck and Yoleen Van Camp) amending the Civil Code and the Programme Act (I) of 27 December 2006 as regards compensation for asbestos victims, Nos 2002/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Catherine Fonck) aimed at improving the functioning of the Asbestos Fund and taking better account of the victims of asbestos, Nos 2453/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Anne Dedry) amending the Programme Act (I) of 27 December 2006 as regards the Asbestos Fund, Nos 1666/1 to 4. - the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 21 December 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the Joint Community Commission and the German-speaking Community on the involvement of the Federal State in the signing of the Cooperation Agreements of 6 September 2017 and 30 May 2018, Nos 3679/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Sandrine De Crom) laying down various provisions on asylum and migration and amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, Nos 3618/1 to 6. - the bill (Mrs Valerie Van Peel and Mr Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Jan Vercammen) to criminalise commercial organ trafficking and organ tourism, Nos 3537/1 to 5. - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Anne Dedry and Mr Evita Willaert, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, Mr Marcel Cheron, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Sarah Schlitz) on the fight against vector disease carriers, and on the prevention and control of vector diseases in humans, which are advancing as a result of climate change and globalisation, Nos 1981/1 to 5. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Sandrine De Crom) amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals in respect of certain categories of workers, Nos 3710/1 to 3. - the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval and Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Law of 22 March 2001 establishing a guarantee of income for the elderly, Nos 3580/1 to 4. - the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Sonja Becq) on half-time pensions, Nos 3578/1 to 6. - the legislative proposal (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and its Annexes, drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973, and amending the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein, Nos 3202/1 to 6. - the legislative proposal (Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Benoît Lutgen and Mr Bert Wollants) amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous products and others by pipeline and amending the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to extending the supervision of the CREG to intermediaries on energy, Nos 3475/1 and 2. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Rita Gantois and Mr Werner Janssen and Mr Bert Wollants) amending the law of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions, Nos 2966/1 to 4. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Isabelle Galant, Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Nele Lijnen) on the compulsory insurance of civil professional liability of architects, surveyors, safety and health coordinators and other service providers in the construction sector of immovable property works and amending various legal provisions relating to civil liability insurance in the construction sector, No. 3602/1 to 4. - the legislative proposal (Mrs Nele Lijnen) approving the cooperation agreement of 31 August 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the coordination of radio frequencies for radio broadcasting in the frequency band 87,5-108 MHz pursuant to Article 17 of the Act of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, Nos 3702/1 to 7. - the legislative proposal (Mr Michel de Lamotte and Mr Benoît Lutgen) amending the law of 21 November 1989 on compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance in order to ensure access to such insurance on non-discriminatory terms, Nos 3211/1 and 2 - the bill (Mr Hans Bonte) establishing the Brussels-Capital Police Zone, Nos 710/1 and 2. Other draft laws and proposals for which the report will be distributed (Art. 85 of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 April 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick, MM. Frank Wilrycx and Bert Wollants and Mrs Griet Smaers) amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Programme Act of 27 April 2007, Nos. 3563/1 to 10. - the bill (Ms. Karine Lalieux, MM. Jean-Marc Delizée, Fabienne Winckel and MM. Paul-Olivier Delannois, Laurent Devin, Eric Thiébaut, Alain Mathot, Emir Kir and Jacques Chabot) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market and the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines, as regards the extension of access to the social tariff, Nos 3191/1 to 3. -the bill (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 26 June 2002 on closures, Nos. 3620/1 to 3. -the bill (Ms Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Isabelle Galant and Nele Lijnen, Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) containing various provisions on the economy, Nos. 3570/1 to 8. - the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) with various 2019-I tax provisions, Nos. 3699/1 to 5. - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq, MM. Raf Terwingen et Vincent Van Peteghem, Mme Els Van Hoof et MM. Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry and Georges Dallemagne ) establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, Nos. 3670/1-10. - the draft law approving the 2005 Protocol to the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Maritime Navigation, done in London on 14 October 2005, Nos. 3660/1 to 3. - the draft law approving the 2005 Protocol to the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Fixed Platforms Located on the Continental Shelf, done at London on 14 October 2005, Nos. 3663/1 to 3. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Laurette Onkelinx, MM. André Frédéric and Willy Demeyer, Nawal Ben Hamou and MM. Sebastian Pirlot and Eric Thiébaut) on first aid training for police officers, Nos. 1906/1 to 5. - Bill amending the Act of 25 December 2016 on the processing of passenger data, Nos. 3652/1 to 3. - Bill amending the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007 with regard to the Federal Knowledge Centre for Civil Security, Nos. 3659/1 to 3. - the bill (MM Kristof Calvo, André Frédéric, Emmanuel Burton, Vincent Van Peteghem and Patrick Dewael, Monica De Coninck and Catherine Fonck and MM. Gilles Vanden Burre, Gautier Calomne and Franky Demon) reforming the right to petition, Nos. 3542/1 to 4. - the bill amending the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security with regard to the processing of personal data, Nos. 3639/1 and 3. - the bill (Ms. Carina Van Cauter, Gautier Calomne, Sonja Becq, Sophie De Wit and Sarah Smeyers and MM. Philippe Goffin and Raf Terwingen) amending the Act of 17 May 2006 relating to the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and to the rights granted to the victim under the terms of the execution of the sentence with a view to adapting the procedure before the enforcement judge with regard to custodial sentences of three years or less, Nos. 3527/1 to 8. - the bill (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) on the granting of a lump sum for persons suffering from congenital malformations due to the ingestion by their mothers during pregnancy of thalidomide-containing medicines, Nos. 3622/1 to 9. - the bill (Mr. David Clarinval and Mrs. Stéphanie Thoron and Mrs. Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) establishing a recognition of close caregivers, Nos. 95/1 to 3. - the bill (Ms Anne Dedry and Meyrem Almaci, MM. Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Jean-Marc Nollet and Sarah Schlitz) amending the regulations to safeguard the social rights of close caregivers, Nos. 1001/1 and 2. - the draft law (Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez) on the social recognition of the caregiver, Nos. 120/1 and 2. - the draft law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) establishing recognition of close caregivers, Nos. 625/1 and 2. - the bill (Ms Meryame Kitir) increasing the allowance and duration of medical leave for a member of the household or family in a situation of great dependence, Nos. 3359/1 and 2. - the bill (Ms. Valerie Van Peel, Catherine Fonck and Yoleen Van Camp) amending the Civil Code and Programme Act (I) of 27 December 2006 as regards compensation for victims of asbestos, Nos. 2002/1 to 3. - the proposal for a law (Ms. Catherine Fonck) to improve the functioning of the Asbestos Fund and to take better account of asbestos victims, Nos. 2453/1 and 2. - the proposal for a law (Ms Anne Dedry) amending Programme Law (I) of 27 December 2006, as regards the asbestos fund, Nos. 1666/1 to 4. - the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement of 21 December 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the Joint Community Commission and the German-speaking Community on the involvement of the Federal State in the signing of the Cooperation Agreements of 6 September 2017 and 30 May 2018, Nos 3679/1 to 3 - the proposed law (Ms. Katja Gabriëls and Sandrine De Crom) on various provisions on asylum and migration and amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of aliens, Nos. 3618/1 to 6. - the draft law (Ms Valerie Van Peel and Yoleen Van Camp and Mr Jan Vercammen) on trafficking in human organs and on the principle of non-sanction of victims of trafficking in human beings, Nos. 3537/1 to 5. - the motion for a resolution (Ms Anne Dedry and Evita Willaert, MM. Wouter De Vriendt, Marcel Cheron, Jean-Marc Nollet en Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Meyrem Almaci, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mrs Sarah Schlitz) on vector control, prevention and control of vector-borne diseases in humans on the increase with climate change and globalisation, 1981/1 to 5. - the draft law (Ms Katja Gabriëls and Sandrine De Crom) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in respect of certain categories of workers, Nos. 3710/1 to 3. - the bill (Mr. David Clarinval and Mrs. Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Act of 22 March 2001 establishing an income guarantee for the elderly, Nos. 3580/1 to 4. - the draft law (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Sonja Becq) on part-time pension, Nos. 3578/1 to 6. - the bill (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annexes, done at Washington on 3 March 1973, as well as the Amendment to the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade, Nos. 3202/1 to 6. - the bill (MM. Michel de Lamotte, Jean-Marc Delizée, Benoît Lutgen and Bert Wollants) amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market in order to extend the control of the CREG to energy intermediaries, Nos. 3475/1 and 2. - the proposal for a law (Ms Rita Gantois and MM. Werner Janssen and Bert Wollants) amending the Act of 2 August 2002 on combating late payment in commercial transactions, Nos. 2966/1 to 4. - the proposal for a law (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Isabelle Galant, Mr Frank Wilrycx and Ms Nele Lijnen) on compulsory insurance of the professional liability of architects, surveyors-experts, health safety coordinators and other providers of the construction of real estate and amending various legal provisions on civil liability insurance in the construction sector, Nos 3602/1 to 4. - the proposal for a law (Ms Nele Lijnen) concerns the consent to the cooperation agreement of 31 August 2018 between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community on the coordination of radio frequencies in respect of broadcasting in the frequency band 87.5-108 MHz in accordance with Article 17 of the Law of 13 June 2005 on electronic communications, Nos. 3702/1 to 7. - the bill (MM. Michel de Lamotte and Benoît Lutgen) amending the Act of 21 November 1989 on compulsory insurance of liability for motor vehicles with a view to guaranteeing their access to non-discriminatory conditions, Nos. 3211/1 and 2. - the draft law (Mr Hans Bonte) establishing the Brussels-Capital Police Area, Nos. 710/1 and 2. Other bills and proposals circulated in the report (s. 85 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? (No) That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u3	Mr President, the bill No. 3578 wants to introduce a half-time pension, which is quite problematic for us. At first sight, this may seem attractive, but without building pension rights, as is the case with the runways, the pension losses are likely to be significant. This is again a saving on pensions by this government. The N-VA announced in committee that after the introduction of this measure all existing runways may be abolished. This would be a real tragedy. Mr President, it has also been shown in committee that there are serious pitfalls and structural errors in this bill. I am thinking, for example, of people who work half-time combined with a half-time pension, but who become ill for a long time. Their sickness benefit must not be combined with a half-time pension. Moreover, their half-time pay is used as a basis. So these people lose twice. They either retain their long-term sickness benefit or retire immediately. In the latter case, they will have to settle for the rest of their lives for a lower amount of pension. In order to solve this and other problems, we have some amendments that I would like to send to the Council of State for advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u4	Mr President, we will support Mrs Kitir's request. My colleague Wouter De Vriendt and I have also tabled amendments on the same text, in particular to include, through the Tandem Plan, a more positive formula concerning the transition between working life and pension. I thank our colleagues for supporting this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u5	Mr President, I must also announce an amendment to another bill that will be tabled by Mr Daerden, with reference to the Council of State (No. 3580).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u6	Mr President, this is a question for an opinion from the Council of State. I would like you to state with a name vote whether enough Members support that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u7	Are there any colleagues who would like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u8	Mr President, I would like to add a supplementary question to the questions put by my fellow Members. I have prepared an amendment together with Mr Vanden Burre on the legislative proposal No. 3550 amending the Code of Companies and Associations, in particular with regard to the administrative burden for small foundations and non-profit organisations, which we wish to minimise. We would like to ask for an opinion from the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u9	Mr President, I would like to refer back the six amendments which we tabled in committee, amendments relating to the draft law amending the Code of Companies and Associations concerning the privileges and annual accounts of associations and foundations. Our position with regard to this text – totally disproportionate to the objective pursued – will not surprise anyone. It is obvious that we must fight terrorism and I do not think that we can be suspected (especially through Georges Dallemagne and his various proposals on the subject) of not wanting to do so. However, aiming at 110,000 associations through cumbersome administrative procedures that have nothing to do with them seems to us to be totally excessive. We have tabled amendments with the aim of providing for proportionality and we also call for them to be sent to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u10	Mr President, my speech concerns the proposal for a law contained in agenda item 55 concerning the Guarantee of Income for the Elderly (GRAPA). This proposal follows the ruling of the Constitutional Court which annulled the law of 27 January 2018, considering that social protections were falling significantly. We would like the Council of State to be consulted for its opinion because it has not been consulted at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that there are several requests for opinions from the Council of State concerning amendments to the legislative proposals. 3550, 3580 and 3578. I suggest that you decide on this with one global count. I propose that we go to counting, you can vote for or against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u12	Mr President, can you give us a list of the texts that have just been sent to the Council of State? I've noticed three, I think there's more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u13	These are texts Nos. 3550, 3580 and 3578, concerning an amendment to the Company Code, the guarantee of income for the elderly and the half-time pension. These items are deleted from our agenda. Mr Clarinval, ladies and gentlemen, the decision has just been taken, which means that all these texts, including the half-time pension bill, are removed from our list of drafts and proposals to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u14	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u15	I refer to the written report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u16	Mr Brotcorne, also the rapporteur, also referred to the written report. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that much work needs to be done in the Belgian justice system. Computerization is still not on the right track at the moment. The judicial staff often have to work in difficult circumstances and the legal backlog is still very high. If we want to improve the image of the Belgian justice system, then something must be done about it. The creation of a new, prestigious body will not help that. The N-VA Group fully understands the business world, which sees in the Brexit an opportunity for Brussels. At the Flemish level, our party has always made a strong commitment to international trade. We try to make Belgium competitive again as a market by lowering the burden, but for us it is neither fish nor meat. Arbitration, but also a state court, with the possibility of cassation. A public court, but only if the parties choose to do so and with registration fees. The Code of Justice applies, but not always. We also see the benefits of the BIBC: cases can be handled by top experts, both foreign and domestic, and our own magistrates can specialize and gain additional experience in complex cases. Some of the cases before the BIBC might even relieve the company courts. The procedure would be almost entirely electronic. Of course, a quick ruling is expected, but the BIBC should not create an additional workload for the Belgian Justice Department. The courts and courts are already succumbing to the many work. The Supreme Court of Justice also made this comment in the Committee on Justice. The High Council also said that the impact on the Brussels appeal court would be too great. The registration fee should be so high that the Brussels appeal court can be fully compensated for the extra work it receives through the creation of the BIBC, but the compensation must be such that the work can be continued by someone else, so that the pending cases are not delayed. The registration fee will not be determined until later in a royal decree, but the present explanatory statement already makes a preliminary calculation and we believe that this calculation is far too low. For example, the hearings showed that it is assumed that a case would take only one working week on average. In our view, that is a very optimistic assessment. Moreover, there is another problem. The registration fee is calculated on the basis of the unavailability of a magistrate or registry staff, but the money goes to the financial pot of the FPS Justice. So it is not the case that the court that should miss the magistrate will actually see something of the money again. Then I come to the main reason why we will not approve this bill. We have always been very loyal to the development of this project, but in December we were pushed out of the government. We therefore no longer have any control over the drafting of the important implementing acts accompanying this draft law. By the way, we are planning an entry into force by 2020, which we believe is an unfeasible map. An even more fundamental question we need to ask ourselves is whether it is up to the government at all to set up such a court. It would be a modern and efficient institution, with an international look, and thus would contribute to the image of Belgian Justice. However, should we improve the reputation of our justice system by creating a brand new, attractive body, or rather by making efforts for the judiciary itself? Moreover, we do not want to give the impression that foreign companies can follow a modern and efficient procedure, while our own SMEs can queue up in one of the often literally crumbling courthouses. We don't want class justice. Finally, I would like to stress that we are open to other actions for international trade. With Brussels as a large lobby city, Flanders as an economic engine and our universities as top institutions, we do not want to linger around the church tower. After all, we understand that this is a very important item on the agenda for the Belgian business community. We look forward to the initiatives that we can support, but we cannot approve this project itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe in the rule of law. It is with these words, this slogan, that the judicial world has once again mobilized, particularly before the office of the Minister of Justice, to put the public service as a general rule on the agenda of the priorities of the future government and, above all, to refinance justice. Yet it is on this day of demonstration that this project aimed at the creation of an international court for business is submitted to us. It sounds, in a way, like a provocation. Justice is on its knees; the minister found it himself because he pleaded for its refinancing. But instead of devoting the necessary resources to the proper and efficient functioning of our courts and tribunals for the benefit of all, we create a five-star jurisdiction for multinational companies that can afford it. You will understand that the Socialist Party cannot support such a project. Since the beginning of this government, the actors of the judiciary have mobilized themselves: stoppages, demonstrations to challenge the human resources situation, the backlog of cases, the lack of opening of vacant places, the elimination of remedies, the reduction of the overall access to justice for citizens, and I am moving on. But tomorrow, the court of cases – I don't know if you know, but in the judicial world in the broad sense, it is already called the "caviar court" – will further exacerbate the situation since it is expected that magistrates will be borrowed directly from the judges of the Brussels Court of Appeal. Indeed, the money spent on one will not be spent on the other. The advisers and magistrates of the Court of Appeal do not want this Court primarily and specifically for these reasons. The same applies to registries, clerks, staff who run the world of justice on a day-to-day basis and who are not sufficiently spoken of. I can recapitulate the criticisms. First, one will take from among the best magistrates in the country who already have a serious backlog of cases to deal with cases that are not normally within the scope of the State justice system. And this – second criticism – even though the framework of magistrates is so deficient that the Belgian state is assigned to the courts to force it to respect the law. This project thus symbolizes a two-speed justice system, a parallel judicial system for large societies that will be able to settle their disputes before a blazing new and rapid court rather than addressing the justice of simple men and women, rendered in sometimes unhealthy premises. Contrary to the fanfaronnades expressed, this court of cases will not be entirely self-sustaining since its general functioning and the Belgian professional judges will be based on the state budget. The critics don't stop there. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh also mentioned this. Other issues were raised by the Council of State and the Supreme Council of Justice. They relate to the independence of the judiciary, the use of languages and respect for the Constitution. Again, an exceptional procedure is foreseen since the judges of this court will be appointed by the King, on the proposal of a selection commission, while there is no justification for the exclusion of the Supreme Council of Justice, since it is a State court. Finally, many professionals question the concrete benefits that companies will have in this court, when the court does not have the flexibility of arbitration. This is particularly what has been defended at length in the Committee on Justice by Professor Hakim Boularbah. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress the need to preserve the indispensable link between the justiciable and the justice system. The creation of this Court of Business is a new breach that once again removes the citizen from his justice. The bill crowns a legislature that has attacked access to justice as never before, as if it were a luxury and not a fundamental right. It is with enthusiasm, by making the necessary noise around this project, that the Socialists will vote against this totally inadequate reform. After hearing my colleague, I hope that it will not be voted on by our House tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u19	Mr President, we have actually heard it in the previous two speeches: it will be difficult to find colleagues today who want to defend the proposed text in the Chamber. I am really looking forward to tomorrow, because I believe that even in the old majority no one was really won for the legislative text. I welcome the conversion of the N-VA. Originally, when it was still part of the government, the N-VA approved the text for the installation of a kind of caviar court, even though it was critical. As long as the N-VA was part of the government, a court in which proceedings would be conducted in English and where priority would be given to large companies was apparently acceptable. But as soon as she left the government, she, fortunately, found the reason back and joined the opposition's criticism. So today we are in a very special situation. There is a text here for discussion in plenary which will not be approved, because there is no majority in favour anymore. It is rare for a text adopted in committee to fail to reach it in plenary. Tomorrow will be the case. I will not repeat the arguments put forward by the previous speakers. The system already benefits those who have a lot of money. They will receive a faster service, while all the other seekers will have to follow the usual path. In fact, a good, fast and high-quality service for every seeker, for every individual, for every company, must be guaranteed. If we want to provide that service for everyone, we will have to invest in Justice. We will have to increase budgets and invest in buildings, in computerisation and in staff. That is the very great challenge we face, and even the Minister admitted it a few weeks ago. That is, after all, the condition for him to be Minister of Justice again. In short, I think there are many good reasons not to approve the draft law. I am therefore looking forward to tomorrow when the plenary will vote on the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u20	Mr President, I would just like to respond to Mr Van Hecke's assertion that we have come to terms with the situation. I would like to stress that, thanks to our pressure, many amendments have already been tabled during the discussions, including as regards procedural language, and adjustments. Since we are no longer part of the government, our additional important argument is that we will no longer have any control over the registration fee. That is an additional argument to vote against in the end. Once again, even when we were part of the government, we took a critical attitude to the draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u21	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like the other colleagues who have just spoken, I thought this matter was buried for this Parliament at least. But now you are persisting and the first point of the last sitting of this Parliament concerns the creation of this Brussels International Court for Business. Would you like to make it a symbol, minister, that you would not have chosen better. But symbols, when you choose them, you try to make them positive. An attempt is made, when punctuation is given to a job, to have a positive punctuation of the action taken. When I see this text coming back to our agenda, on the contrary, I have the feeling that this punctuation shows the way in which the majority, as Minister of Justice, you have helped in its various approaches, treats the judicial world. Minister, in committee, I used the term "indecency". I want to take him back to this rostrum today. It is totally indecent to come today with this proposal. At other times, in a situation that would be more acceptable, better for the constitutional power of the judiciary, I think we could have reached an agreement and shared your view that Brussels, the capital of the European institutions, the capital of the world of business, must have jurisdiction equal to what is happening in its territory. But the timing is particularly inappropriate. Minister, you are finishing at the head of your department, and with a majority, on a note that the judicial world disapproves. If you pass an exam - you have passed it in your teacher's career - I think you would leave the office with at least a second session. In addition, today, the actors of the judicial world are giving you their grievances. In addition, today we are completing our work. So you come with this request that the big international business needs the means that Belgian justice will grant it. We are going, Minister, to house this international court in our walls. We will delegate to the seat of this court judges of our Judicial Order. We will have members of our registries and administrative services working there. All this at a time when our courthouses are claping, and judges are not appointed and do not know how to cope with their essential tasks. All of this majority's action in the area of justice has been aimed at reducing, as long as possible, the number of cases. To do this, it was necessary to tackle those who were consumers who were absolutely inopportune, without the responsibility of the judicial world, and particularly the most impoverished: legal aid was attacked. It is in this context that you propose the creation of an international court of affairs. It's frankly indecent. It's right for those who say that we've engaged in dual justice, at two speeds. If you are powerful, you will be able to assert your rights very quickly. But if you are not lucky enough to be among the powerful or have the financial capacity to enforce your rights in court, you will pay additional registry fees and VAT-plus fees, and you will have to pay contributions to different funds, which you will have to pay if you lose your procedure. If you need legal aid, you will be made more difficult and complicated. That is not what we expect from our judicial world, minister. We expect justice to do its true work, to respond to its true purpose, and to protect it. What is proposed to us today, beyond indecency, does not reflect a good appreciation of the urgency and priorities of the judicial world. In addition, the question of the real added value of this proposal for the creation of an international court for business can be asked. Minister, you know better than I do, since you have probably had the opportunity to do this kind of business in a professional capacity. In our Judicial Code, Part Five deals with international arbitration. With some legislative improvements, this section allows you to achieve the objectives of your project. This can work quickly and efficiently, with arbitrators specially chosen for their expertise. Why was it necessary to create something more when the means to achieve the objectives of your project already exist today, in our legislative arsenal? It's all the more surprising that what you're proposing is a hybrid solution. We are at the same time halfway or on horseback between a court that depends a little on the Classic Judicial Order and, for the rest, on other forms of organization. The question was raised as to how magistrates would be appointed. What will be the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of Justice? What about the use of languages? This is a relatively important problem since English would be the preferred language in these procedures. Anyway, in addition to all the other elements, we'd have a hybrid solution. That, Minister, I cannot accept. My group can't accept it. At other times, I tell you, we might have found formulas and solutions that meet a legitimate objective, but today, in the context of this project, they do not find their place at all. So you won't be able to count on the cdH group to try to get your project through, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the other day I read a science fiction novel about a decadent society in which two justices were established. For the simple people, the courts were powerless and rendered their opinions in time. They were totally dilapidated, and their ceilings were falling. On the other hand, for the powerful, justice was rendered in an ultra-fast time by luxury courts, which held their hearings in the language of the powerful, and which were siphoning ordinary justice judges. No, ladies and gentlemen, this may be a bad scenario, but it is not a fiction: it is the real situation of justice in the Koen Geens era. Here are a few quotes about this BIBC, this court caviar for multinationals. The elected member of the Bar of the Court of Cassation believes that this is a " ridiculous idea, which shows only one thing: justice is considered only from an economic point of view". The report of the Supreme Council of Justice sees this as "a breach of equality between persons entitled to justice". As for the first Advocate General at the Court of Cassation, he spoke of "a new court of state, whose exotic financing modalities and the actual cost are left in the shadows". Finally, my favourite quote is that of the president of the trade union association of magistrates: "A pleutocratic jurisdiction, which will serve only for the self of the high financial and economic spheres, a jurisdiction that is created to respond to the 'impatience of the rich', as Jacques Attali would say, while, for lack of resources and investment, the poor are kept in an unbearable state of patience". Of course, there is still an organization that fully supports this BIBC project. Unsurprisingly, it's about the FEB. She goes as far as - and this is the craziest - explicitly defending two-speed justice. Indeed, the BIBC argues on its website: "Our justice suffers from various ills, including a lack of means, but also a lack of image. By making prompt, specialized and final judgements, including in very complex international cases, the BIBC will make full use of the expertise of the Belgian judiciary in Belgium and internationally." In short, the FEB recognizes the existence of a totally dilapidated justice for the poor, but to conclude that it requires a specific justice for the richest. In addition, the FEB had even organised on 26 June 2018 at the City Hall of Brussels a presentation of the BIBC in the presence of the minister, in order to sand the champagne in honor of the establishment of this caviar court that was to be made for multinationals – perhaps a little too fast moreover: we will see what the vote on this subject will be! This two-speed justice, that class justice that was the guiding thread of this government's policy, is fully symbolized by this BIBC. Courts and tribunals do not function up to what is necessary. Underfunding has been chronic for years. The world of justice is collapsed – like the ceiling of the Brussels courthouse – but also revolted. We haven't seen the magistrates, the clerks, and so on! Minister, perhaps we should have a minimum service for the world of justice, as you have done in prisons. In the project before us, there is a court of exception, with a language of exception! At all times, there was a dominant class language and, here, English would prevail for this court. A State court is therefore established in which the compulsory language is not even one of the official languages of this country! Who's going to enjoy it? Clearly, the richest multinationals that will have an exceptional court and, in a second phase, a handful of business law firms, which will see their turnover increase. For example, Eubelius, this business law firm founded by the Minister of Justice, who signs this bill! In conclusion, we will not support this proposal for an emergency tribunal for multinationals. It's kind of like, in the middle of a fire, the firefighters were mobilized to fill the private pool of the wealthy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a draft from the former government, composed of four parties, which intended to create a special court in Brussels that would deal with cross-border disputes in English. It is remarkable that a draft that has been followed up in Amsterdam, Paris, Frankfurt, Belgium, cannot be approved in Brussels for all kinds of reasons which seem to have been inspired, one time by costs, the other time by depriving funds of classical magistrate, another time because English is a language which cannot be used in Belgian law. I think that a very strange cocktail of arguments is being made here about a draft that deserves better and, as far as I can remember, was approved in two readings in the Committee on Justice. The intention of the government and in particular the Prime Minister was to ensure at the time of the Brexit that our country and in this case Brussels would become a jurisdiction available for international disputes. I think the Brexit is imminent. Imagine being able to argue in English in Paris, imagine being able to argue in English in Frankfurt, when we, in Brussels, think that we should have minor disputes on this matter! This case has been debated extensively in the Justice Committee. It is without much hope and with a certain reservation that I think I have to defend this project, because it is a missed chance. It is very easy to say today that this court costs money, that it deprives those resources of the traditional magistracy. Mr Brotcorne, I have not counted the number of times you have used the word "indecent" for me. I note that Mr Brotcorne is no longer even here to listen to my reply! I believe that we should not only defend the draft with a certain distance, but also with a certain persistence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard everything that is not true. The proposed court is self-sufficient. We took care of that together. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I have proposed that the draft royal decree which would determine the right of registration be submitted to the assembly here, if that is desired. You have said that you are no longer able to control the government and that you are no longer willing to accept it. I would have hoped you could trust me. I've been a pretty reliable partner for your party over the years. As far as translation and expertise costs are concerned, we have reached agreement in the Justice Committee that those costs would be borne by the losing party. This was discussed again in a long and broad way. The Brussels appeal court does not lose any resources. Two people are entrusted by the Supreme Court of Justice with the task of Chief Constable of the court in question. They could manage this court in a fairly quiet and distant way, as they should not be seated themselves. People know that very well. It concerns two judges, elected according to the specific nature of the case, and the chairman, who may decide that together. That chairman is recruited from the sedentary magistrate in function of the competence. The Supreme Court of Justice would intervene for the designation of the Chiefs of Staff and an independent committee, composed of experts, to select the list of magistrates and lay judges from which to choose. I am convinced that the Court would be self-sufficient, that it would not entail additional costs and that it would also meet a real need for efficiency in cross-border disputes. Those who wish to sue in English will not now come to Brussels for these disputes, but to other places in Europe, which are less central and less close to the European Union. Finally, I found that they wanted to rule out the cassation. That was the subject of Mrs Onkelinx's amendment. We have indeed ruled out the appeal, because we are convinced that one instance with competent magistrates is sufficient to settle an international dispute if the parties wish to submit to it. However, I would remind you of the judgment of the Council of State that the jurisdiction of the Court of Cassation cannot and should not be excluded. So on that point, I think it is right for the outgoing government to reject the amendment. Mr President, I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u24	Minister, we have listened. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u25	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3072/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3072/11) The draft law has 66 articles. The bill has 66 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u26	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u27	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Michel de Lamotte, Raf Terwingen, Kattrin Jadin, Goedele Uyttersprot, Dirk Janssens, Olivier Henry, Youro Casier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u28	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u29	Mr President, this text is derived from the Code of Companies and Associations, by which associations, in particular, have been given a summary reading of the provisions concerning them. The groups in this Parliament have all tabled this text together, which will complete the document that the Minister has published on this subject. An interesting fact is that the updates will be made by the FPS Finance, in accordance with a given agreement – and I thank him for that – by the Minister at the Trade and Economic Law Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u30	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u31	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3664/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3664/3) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u32	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u33	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u34	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Brotcorne and Mr Foret, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time there was a blessed year of 1888 when Minister of Justice Lejeune introduced a system of conditional release, distinguishing between those who for the first time and therefore occasionally misplaced something and who repeated or repeated it. He provided for two different treatments, one third for those who do something wrong for the first time and two thirds for those who relapse. This is how far the sentence went: at least one third or two thirds of the sentence had to be served. That distinction has been maintained for years, although it has often been under discussion. For example, other fracture parts were proposed. We, too, have proposed adjustments in this direction. However, the distinction between the two systems has always been maintained. However, some work has been done on criminal enforcement legislation along the way. In 1998 there was a draft by then Minister De Clerck. However, the distinction remained. In 2006 there was a design by Mrs Onkelinx and there the distinction was retained. In 2006, we approved the Martin Act in this hemisphere. The conditions were tightened, but again a strict distinction was maintained between recidivists and non-recidivists. The recidivists had to serve a larger part of their sentence before they could get paroled. The impact of this repetition has therefore been in place for 120 years. Suddenly, however, the Constitutional Court came up with another judgment, in which it stated that there was inequality and discrimination and it destroyed the relevant provisions. The consequence is that today everyone can be released after a third of his sentence. The problem is that our law today does not provide for a repetition of a crime that comes after a malpractice. This in itself is not illogical because a crime is always punished more severely; that is the underlying reason. It was always felt that within that criminal penalty there was sufficient margin to increase the penalty. However, we have gradually begun to work hard on criminal law and criminal procedural law. We have introduced such a thing as a correction. Then, of course, we will have a completely different situation. If we are to commit a malpractice today after a miscarriage, that is a repetition and two thirds of the sentence must be served. If a crime is committed after a miscarriage, it is repeated and two thirds of the sentence must be served. If a corrupted crime is committed after a miscarriage, it is also repeated and two thirds of the sentence must be served. If, however, an ordinary crime after a malpractice is not included in the law, then there is no repetition and only one third of the sentence must be served. It is therefore almost beneficial to refer to the court of assistants. Everyone feels this isn't right. That judgment of the 2018 Constitutional Court prompted our group to submit a legislative proposal to correct this decision and to carry out a repair. We say that when a crime is committed after a miscarriage, it is just as much a repetition. The 120-year-old Lejeune Act will then become applicable again and one can then again be released at the earliest after two thirds of the sentence. That is no matter what court they appear before, because that will no longer benefit, with or without a choice for the court of assistants. There is therefore no longer any inequality at the stage of the penalty measurement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important for us to put this right. Bringing everything to a third is not enough for us; we are in favour of stricter punishment. A punishment may be a punishment for us. For us it may even be other faults, but that is not the issue today. This recovery is the least that could and should have been done during this legislature. I am therefore very pleased with the support we received in committee to carry out this repair. The result is that in the event of a recidivism, the unsub can be released at the earliest after two thirds of the sentence. After all, there was already a chance before, but it was not taken and something was wrong again. Whoever burns his ass must be on the blisters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this text adopted in haste is clearly premature and risks further annulment before the Constitutional Court. It is premature because the draft law on the reform of the Criminal Code will allow this issue to be dealt with in better conditions. It is premature because the desirability of introducing such a recidivism of crime requires an essential and earlier discussion of the scale of penalties. Throughout its judicial development, the Constitutional Court considered that the recidivism of crime was inappropriate. On the one hand, because if it did not exist, it was not inadvertently but by a deliberate choice by the legislator, as early as 1867, who considered that the criminal penalties already offered the judge, between the maximum and the minimum, sufficient latitude to proportionately: in such a case, the punishment of the author's guilt, the ineffectiveness of the first conviction, then finding his remedy in the necessary severity of the second. On the other hand, because of the massive correction that potpourri II has further increased, this recidivism would lead to cascading discrimination. I would stress that the lack of constitutionality raised by the Court is therefore not due to the absence of a repeat offence, but rather to the very principle of the correction of crimes in the correctional court. For example, in 2011, the Constitutional Court found it discriminatory that an accused person prosecuted in the correctional court following the admission of extenuating circumstances could be sentenced for a longer period of time than the person who, without extenuating circumstances, was prosecuted in the assize court. The second aspect is the inequality raised in the execution of the sentence. For example, in a judgment of 18 December 2014, the Court found unconstitutional that a person who, after a sentence of at least one year's imprisonment and sentenced the count of attempted murder less than five years after his or her sentence had been served or after the sentence had been prescribed, was treated differently with respect to the possibility of parole depending on whether he or she was returned to the assize court and sentenced to a criminal sentence or if the crime had been corrected on the basis of mitigating circumstances or grounds of excuse, he or she was sentenced to a correctional sentence by the Correctional Court or the Court of Appeal. Finally, again referred to a question for a preliminary ruling, the Constitutional Court, in a 2018 judgment, will consider that it is contrary to Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution that a convicted person, in a state of lawful recidivism, is eligible for two-thirds parole, whereas the basic theoretical sentence is lower than the theoretical sentence, which carries the first third of his sentence. Colleagues, such a difference in treatment is without reasonable justification since it calls into question the scale of sentences at the stage of their execution. It is therefore, in fact, the combined reading of the various articles of the Criminal Code which creates discrimination that the text on the table will not fail to recreate and even to reinforce with regard to the execution of sentences. In addition, the postponement of the parole eligibility date will only further worsen the situation of inmates and the substantive sentence figures with the risk that this will entail in terms of the absence of controls and therefore unaccompanied returns within society. For my group, the proposal submitted is contrary to the jurisprudence of both the Constitutional Court and the Assize Court. We therefore submit to you a series of amendments aimed at responding to a number of difficulties. However, we would prefer the first proposed option to give up voting on this text at this stage and to allow the new Justice Committee, which will be set up after 26 May, to decide on a reform of the scale of sentences and the concept of recidivism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u37	Mr President, I will not be very innovative with regard to what has just been explained. First of all, I would say that we have had a rather special situation in committee. The document before us today was integrated into another document and we had it removed so that we could continue the discussions. We were therefore very surprised to see that it had been tabled in the form of a bill almost the same day, which prompted quite passionate discussions, if not exciting, in committee. With this notion of recidivism, we touch upon the foundations of criminal law. The introduction of a reoffending offence had been justified, at some point, in an attempt to circumvent the constitutional obligation of the Assize Court. It was breached by the Constitutional Court, which demonstrated that it was not possible to engage in such matters in debates that were not sufficiently prepared. In our view, this is still the case today, which is why we believe that it would be more appropriate for this operation to take place when a Justice Commission resulting from the new elections can seriously begin a discussion on the scale of penalties and the reform of the Penal Code, two reforms that could not be carried out under this legislature when initially it was an important political will of the minister. We therefore consider that the times are not ripe. Moreover, what is being proposed to us risks, as the previous speaker said, being again confronted with a negative analysis of the Constitutional Court, since the proposal itself carries two new discriminations which the Court is very much tracking. This would allow the latter to cancel provisions that would not be consistent with constitutionality. That is the risk we are taking with the text proposed to us this afternoon. Therefore, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u38	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u39	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3213/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3213/7) The title was changed by the Committee to include an Article 55a in the Criminal Code as regards repetition." The title has been amended by the commission to include in the Criminal Code an article 55 bis, with regard to recidivism." The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u40	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 5... Laurette Onkelinx (3213/8) • 3 – Laurette Onkelinx (3213/8) Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) • 4 p.m. Laurette Onkelinx (3213/8) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u41	Sustained: the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u42	Adopted: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u43	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u44	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Elio Di Rupo, Laurette Onkelinx, Özlem Özen, Fabienne Winckel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u45	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Brotcorne, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u46	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1926/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1926/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u47	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u48	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3515: Sophie De Wit, Raf Terwingen, Philippe Goffin, Carina Van Cauter, Gautier Calomne, Sonja Becq, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh - 1617: Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Philippe Goffin, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers - 1710: Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Robert Van de Velde, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh - 2903: Carina Van Cauter - 3329: Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u49	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Van Hecke and Mr Brotcorne, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u50	Mr President, on the legislative proposal No. I would like to table an amendment to 3515. To begin with, I would like to say that today is 24 April. It is a very unfortunate coincidence that this is the anniversary of the Armenian genocide for the Armenian community. I also understand that the Armenian community deplores this coincidence. I understand that, because there's something unwelcome in there. I assume that this is a purely agenda-technical coincidence, but I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute once again to the Armenian community on this special day for them and for all those who sympathise with their cause. My amendment proposes the deletion of Article 115 of the present legislative proposal. There is no doubt that the authors' intentions are highly justifiable. They want to amend the law of 30 July 1981 to punish certain acts of racism or xenophobia; it is an inequality in the recognition and treatment by our country of the facts corresponding to a crime of genocide, a crime against humanity or a war crime. The proposal as it stands is limited to facts recognised by international courts. The problem with this, therefore, is that we are actually creating two categories of genocide crimes, on the one hand genocides for which an international court has taken a final decision and, on the other hand, genocides recognised by, for example, our own Parliament or the government. I refer to the Armenian genocide as a striking example. That would not be covered by the provision, because international recognition of the Armenian genocide by international institutions, unlike certain other genocides, is, of course, particularly difficult because Turkey is an important player in the international sphere. If China ever sins on a far-reaching genocide, it will never be recognised internationally, because China is an important player. Unfortunately, this means that international recognition is generally reserved for situations where the convicted party no longer places any weight on the international scale. This means that we let our muscles roll and show when the "opponent" is powerless and counted, while we suddenly hide those muscles behind white shirt sleeves when it comes to genocides in which the guilty party still plays an important role. That unequal treatment is disturbing. The article we want to introduce will always come close to the problem of freedom of expression. In this way it has been edited that it may not be that bad in practice, but then one might wonder if the text before us is more than a little symbolism. Fortunately, we have legislation that criminalizes hatred and calls for violence today, and rightly so. Perhaps this is a symbolic act which actually has a damaging effect on those who happen to fall under the wrong category of genocides. In our view, this side effect of unequal treatment outweighs the good intentions underlying this proposal. That is why we have tabled an amendment to delete the article in question. However, Mr President, I would like the Committee on Justice to be convened so that we do not, if we adopt our amendment, come into complete difficulty. We believe that this can be avoided when we deal with it in committee. After all, the rest of the fairly comprehensive package can count on our approval.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u51	Mr De Roover called for the convening of the Justice Committee. The chairman of this committee is in the Chamber and I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. I thought our last committee sat last Wednesday. We had officially closed the works. I am referring here to a request, which at this stage only comes from a single group, for a possible meeting of the Justice Committee on an amendment tabled. I turn to my colleagues who are usually sitting on the Justice Committee to ensure that this request as such is supported or not; I do not feel overly enthusiastic about the requested meeting. Mr Brotcorne, would enthusiasm still be at the meeting?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u53	That is not the question, but I would like to be able to explain the amendment that I tabled in relation to this text, which would indeed justify a meeting of the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u54	I was not aware of your amendment and, in that case, it seems appropriate to give you the floor before proceeding, Mr Brotcorne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to go up to the gallery in order to face the minister. It seems to me that the subject in question deserves the honours of the latter. The text before us has a very commendable and legitimate objective: to strengthen the repression of negationism while covering all crimes of genocide. Of course, this is an initiative emanating from the European bodies, the purpose of which is to request that such crimes have been recognized by an international court. This therefore takes into account a suggested - and not imposed - limitation, which should be stressed - by a European Union framework decision, which dates back to 28 November 2008, on the fight against certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia through criminal law. As we all know, the adoption of European directives or standards sets a framework, but if it is not detrigued, it can be strengthened by the Member States that adopt the legislation. This is the purpose of the amendment which I tabled this afternoon on behalf of the cdH Group, so that the text we are going to vote on can cover all the crimes of genocide that meet the definition of the International Criminal Court, but also to allow it to be the case of crimes recognised by bodies such as the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, or by Belgium itself, which of course retains its full authority in this matter and can decide not to restrict but to add to the repression of any form of negationism. I believe that we cannot accept that there are two types of genocide, crimes against humanity or war recognized by Belgium: those whose denial is criminally reprehensible and those whose denial is not. That is why, in the provision that we are about to vote, we should aim at all the genocides recognised by the Council of Europe, the European Parliament or Belgium. Everyone will make the political analysis he wishes of this text and the amendment. It has just been recalled that this 24 April is a special date for the Armenian community. It would be a shame if on this anniversary day we did not seize the opportunity that I propose to accept, knowing that it is not directed against any other community which is also entitled to exist on Belgian soil, on European soil or everywhere else. In these matters, we must never oppose each other's communities. At one point, however, we must make amends, admit that genocides, crimes against humanity or war crimes have been committed. It is the greatness of humanity as a whole to recognize them. That is why, Mr President, I would like this amendment to be discussed in our Committee on Justice as soon as possible, so that we know what we can do for it. It could perhaps lead to consensus on the document. I listened to my colleague De Roover in his own amendment. Clearly, he proposes to remove the somewhat disturbing element that we are discussing today. I believe that would be a step backwards in the recognition of any genocide or any identical form of crime. Our Parliament would not give a proper signal on this particular day of 24 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u56	Mrs De Wit has also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u57	Mr President, apart from the debate on everything that I hope will remain of this important legislative proposal, I believe that we should first clarify this aspect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u58	Are there any amendments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u59	Mr President, I will speak in response to this procedure, which I think is quite doubtful. As the Chairman of the Committee on Justice has just pointed out, it was agreed to complete our work last week. This text was discussed in committee. Each political group had the opportunity and the opportunity to request hearings. That was not the case. It is also our practice, in committee, to study and discuss each bill or bill clause by clause. It is therefore always possible for us to identify an anomaly and to give our opinion. In this case, the text was voted unanimously, if I am not mistaken. This shows that there was no problem with it. Today, however, when this is the last parliamentary week, we are coming to table an amendment in haste, on a subject as delicate as the Armenian genocide. I understand the symbolic aspect, but we must also take account of the legal aspect. We are lawyers who must examine this last aspect, particularly in terms of international law. I am sorry, but we cannot replace an international court. This issue simply falls outside the scope of the text that was discussed in the Committee on Justice. That is the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u60	Mr President, I would still like to say to Mrs Özen that we have not discussed this particular text in committee. The article was drowned in a pot-pourri law on cults. No particular attention was drawn to this provision. It was only then that attention was drawn to the possible limitations of the legislation proposed to us. This is not the first time that we in Parliament have been working in this way and trying to correct a text before it is adopted. It seems to me better to correct it before and not after, with a restorative law. Bringing the commission together makes sense. I repeat that this is not about the Armenian genocide, which everyone has in their mouths. It's not just about that. This also concerns other situations as dramatic as this one and which may occur in the future. This text will allow Belgium, as a sovereign authority, to consider, in a situation such as this - which its courts and tribunals, or its government or parliament, will appreciate - that it is a situation of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity, the negationism of which cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u61	Mr President, I am well aware of the requests made. I also hear what Mrs Özen and Mr Brotcorn have also recalled. It is true that this text contains several provisions on quite a variety of subjects. But the truth has its rights, and we must also say how we worked in the Justice Committee. We have really given all the groups the opportunity to discuss this subject in the best conditions of transparency, by inviting the groups to reflect one week before the possible subjects to be examined are fixed. Then, as always in the committee, we found a consensus to establish the list of guests and speakers in this context. Here, too, we have mentioned elements relating to the precise legal difficulty facing us. As a constructive proposal, I suggest inviting the minister to come to committee to remind us of the legal elements that have made the text, as it stands, suitable for most of the groups present in committee that day. We can discuss it. Important technical and legal aspects should be highlighted. Perhaps it is more useful to do so in the context of the Justice Committee. I can get her together for this discussion. Minister, can you grant my request?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u62	Mr Goffin, I am prepared to answer the questions here and before the committee. It is indeed unfortunate - but it was unpredictable - that this project should be discussed on the anniversary of the Armenian genocide. I am prepared to discuss the technical elements and the reasons why the government put this text forward; a text that has been taken up by the old majority and, I believe, by many others. I can better explain how we did it. Doing it here or in committee is according to your preference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u63	Mr Minister, I do believe that we must decide whether to go to committee or not. We did not discuss this at the Conference of Presidents, which means that the decision is due to the plenary. My question to the House is as follows. Can you agree that we sit and stand up and decide whether or not the amendments are being referred to committee? Where appropriate, we shall have a kind of census instead of a vote. Can the House agree that this is how we decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u64	Those who support the request to refer the three amendments, Nos 72, 74 and 84, to the committee, stand. So it is really just about those amendments. After all, the rest has been discussed. Can I therefore ask that those Members who believe that we should return the amendments to committee should now stand up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u65	We shall therefore organise the committee meeting in a pragmatic manner. Mr President of the Committee on Justice, we are going to organize the referral to the committee in a pragmatic way. That means we stop here and we can continue after the committee's proposal comes back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u66	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3549: Philippe Goffin, Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sonja Becq, Gautier Calomne - 2194: Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq, Gilles Foret, Philippe Goffin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sophie De Wit, Carina Van Cauter - 3171: Carina Van Cauter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u67	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs De Wit, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u68	Mr President, the proposal provides for a number of points to be taken forward with regard to computerisation, which we naturally support. We would, however, like to table an amendment to this bill to repair the language law. On 25 May 2018, we passed a law in the Chamber, leaving the character of public order of language law and moving to a relative nullity. Before that, the language legislation prescribed an absolute nullity on which the court could rule of its own motion. The explanatory memorandum to this legislation was not entirely clear and was also very vague about that article, which is why the N-VA was the only one in the committee to intervene on this issue through Mr Uyttersprot. She asked the Minister's representative for clarification. It replicated that the Council of State had suggested that there should be a tie between the nullities for breach of the rules on the use of languages and the other nullities, in order to limit the latter to purely formal infringements. This relates to comments in a wrong language, but not to the fact that a case is dealt with in the wrong language. In the latter case, it is a material breach of the law. Mr Uyttersprot asked for further clarification and specifically asked whether it was not intended that cases should be dealt with in French in Flanders. The Minister's representative confirmed that this was not intended to be possible from now on. After that, a number of concerns have arisen in practice. Among other things, Mr Lamon wrote an opinion paper on this, claiming that the language law had been completely undressed in court cases, because it would be possible for a French-speaking person to subpoena another French-speaking person in Flanders without the possibility for either party to claim any damage to his interests. Of course, it was not the intention of this amendment to facilitate such situations. I therefore asked the Minister in committee for further clarification on this legislation. The Minister replied that it was a purely theoretical scenario that such problems would arise in practice, that it would bear witness to the bad faith of the parties involved and that it would be unrealistic. Nevertheless, the Minister promised to submit a draft law in order to repair the legislation, but then the government fell and that is why we have no longer come up with an approved bill. It is also true that the original intention was to eliminate discrimination in relation to language legislation by amending Article 5 of the 2018 Law. A language law of course has a certain status, which makes it impossible to equate formal errors with linguistic errors. A judgment of 26 February 2019 showed that the problems we feared were not confirmed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs by the vagueness with which the subject was dealt with in committee. I will explain the case from the judgment of 26 February 2019. It concerns a Dutch-speaking man from Zaventem, who could not enforce his right to conduct proceedings in Dutch at the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. The subpoena was written by his ex-wife in French and although the man had correctly invoked the nullity of the subpoena, the court finally ruled that the person concerned was not violated in his interests. That is a concrete example. It is a first sentence, but it will be followed by the amendment of language legislation in the potpourriwet of May 2018. In the meantime, there is a question pending at the Constitutional Court on this issue, but we think it is very important that we can table our amendment so that language legislation can be restored now and we do not, in practice, face the consequences of amending the language law. I therefore hope that the Flemish parties will support the adoption of our amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u69	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, I assume you will give me that amendment, because I do not have that document yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u70	We will forward it, Mr President, if that has not already happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u71	No, but it has to be now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u72	Mr President, this text, said ICT, has indeed received the support of the opposition, which we have invited to sign a series of additional amendments. We will remember that this was an opportunity to give a series of legal bases to databases. It was often regretted that it was difficult for the justice system to have an effective computer tool. This text will continue efforts to modernize justice and the use of information technology tools. For most of them, the legal basis was missing. By voting on this text, we will allow these different databases to be started, including the one on the monitoring of what is happening in prison. This proposal also includes a set of rules for access to the criminal record, with amendments relating to access to the criminal record. The procedure for collective settlement of debts has been amended. A legal basis has been created for the creation of electronic lists relating to the judiciary, lawyers, bailiffs. We've been working on the status of consular judges. A database for notarial acts was created. There is also a situation which has become obsolete in relation to microfilms relating to the preservation of a copy of the Belgian Moniteur. Secondly, a series of amendments were made with explanations given in advance of the opposition. In the Justice Committee, a great deal of upstream work is being done to enable each other to eventually join texts, taking the time to learn. This was the case here, in particular with regard to the possibility for an accused person or his lawyer to take a copy of a criminal file free of charge by their own means when access to that file is allowed. I note here the work started by our colleague Mrs Van Cauter, who had initiated lengthy negotiations with the investigating judges to ensure that this consultation became possible. With this text, this will be the case under very specific conditions which seem to correspond to the concerns expressed by the investigating judges so that the cases do not find themselves too easily on the public road, with the consequences that this may possibly entail. There is also a party that coordinates and inserts into the Judicial Code the provisions relating to the National Register of Jurors and Interpreters. Personally, I was pleased to see that for a final text in the Committee on Justice, or at least for one of the latter, it was able to receive the support of the majority and the opposition, which I thank.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u73	Mr Goffin, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, gives me a break. The committee has yet to be convened, but this text is indeed quite emblematic of the way in which we have unfortunately been able to work too rarely in committee. I believe that, compared to others, it was a way of working that was interesting and where we sometimes felt, in the old opposition – since there is no more majority or opposition and we know too much who does what – to be a little more heard. Perhaps it was the situation of the former majority that led her to be more attentive to the opposition's demands. Nevertheless – and this was the subject of my intervention – I would like to take this opportunity to thank Speaker Goffin for the way he conducted the debate in our committee throughout this Parliament. He has been attentive to the minister's demands, emergencies and diligences, which have always wanted us to work more than we had the ability to do at times. He was attentive to the demands of his majority partners, but also to the fact that the opposition or the former opposition was heard and respected. I would therefore like to thank him for this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u74	Thank you very much to Mr Goffin!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u75	Mr President, I think it is clear from your body language that the misunderstanding has now been resolved and that our amendment has reached you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u76	That's what I was about to bring up. The amendment has now been accepted. It'll get a number later. We don't have a number yet. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3549/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3549/8) The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a law laying down various provisions on computerisation of justice, modernisation of the statute of judges in business cases and on the notarial instrument bank." The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law laying down various provisions in the field of computerisation of the justice system, modernization of the status of consular judges and in relation to the bank of notarial acts". The bill has 157 articles. The bill has 157 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u78	Annex V.Part 2.124 (b) 158(n) • 108 Kristien Van Vaerenbergh (3549/9) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u79	Sustained: the amendment. Reserved: the amendment. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 157.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u81	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Laurette Onkelinx, Servais Verherstraeten, Philippe Goffin, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Carina Van Cauter, Annick Lambrecht, Christian Brotcorne, Stefaan Van Hecke, Raf Terwingen, Sonja Becq.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Calomne, referred to the written report. Mrs Onkelinx has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u83	Mr President, by giving me the floor, you give me the opportunity to thank all colleagues. You know that in order to be able to vote on this bill, it first took an agreement to amend the Constitution. Indeed, the Constitution expresses a very important principle, namely that publicity of judgments is indispensable. Justice must be a public matter known to all. It can't be done in catimini. Those who are judged must be able to hear the judgment and, if possible, understand it. But we also know that, in many cases, judgments and judgments are read for hours, not just the conclusion, but the operative part of the decision. Therefore, we have decided to change the Constitution in order to respect this principle of publicity and to limit ourselves, in criminal matters, to reading the provisions of the judgment, on the understanding that exceptions are still possible if it is considered that it is very important that the judicial decision as a whole be said, heard and exposed. I would just like to say that I am delighted with the good cooperation of all the parties in this matter, so that justice can be offered more quickly and communication more in line with our times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u84	Mr President, I do not have much to add. I had registered as a speaker because I felt it was appropriate to speak, but Mrs Onkelinx has already said everything. I believe that we have managed to reconcile respect for the fundamental law of the Constitution with the need, well understood, to modernise the way in which our judiciary operates. This is the case with the reading of decisions and judgments. It is a good development that I imagine we will vote unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3489/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3489/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Civil Procedure as regards the publication of judgments and judgments." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Judicial Code with regard to the publication of judgments and judgments." The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u88	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Carina Van Cauter, Gautier Calomne, Sonja Becq, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers, Philippe Goffin, Raf Terwingen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Onkelinx and Mr Van Hecke, refer to the written report. The first applicant, Mrs Van Cauter, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked very often in the past legislature about the way in which we carry out punishments in practice. Very often, the way in which we carry out punishments for this Parliament and also for the citizens has been rather confrontational. A judge has an in-depth knowledge of the file, considers the perpetrator's personality, as well as the circumstances of a crime and the seriousness of the facts, eventually seeks an appropriate punishment and comes to a measuring of the penalty that has a number of aspects in mind, first and foremost the protection of society. When we talk about custodial sentences, the protection of society is, of course, one of the objectives. The judge has an eye for repairing the suffering suffered by victims. A sentence, when it comes to prison, must also be dissuasive. This is one of the goals that one tries to achieve when a prison sentence is imposed. It has therefore been confrontational in the late stages to establish that penalties are carried out by means of generic letters of conversion in which the sentence imposed was simply converted into a number of months of electronic supervision, whereas the conditions were not met in practice. We are therefore pleased, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal would put an end to this. From now on, the court will be able to determine the terms of the sentence, in all cases in the same way, at least after analysis and consideration of all the elements of the case in the context of the execution of the sentence and taking into account the time conditions. Indeed, the modalities of electronic surveillance and limited detention can only be obtained six months before the deadline for conditional release is reached. President. - I call the Group of the Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that in this way we are effectively doing what we should do, namely actually implementing the penalties imposed by a judge, and from now on leaving it to the judge to determine the terms of the sentence. There has been a lot of discussion, but it had little to do with the proposal in itself, but with the means that justice must have to have to implement sanctions in a meaningful way. We fully agree with that. That is one of the reasons why we insist that we proceed to the vote on this proposal at the end of the legislative term, so that sufficient resources can be provided at the time of entry into force of the text. In this way we also hope to put an end to the vicious circle in which judges impose 37-month sentences, precisely in order to effectively allow perpetrators of crime to face any prison sentence. The result is that they have been in prison for too long, which is contrary to a good measure of punishment. That is one of the problems we would like to address with the legislative text. In this way, we can also put an end to the fact that, in order to avoid repeated detention, investigators often proceed to remand. The result is that 40% of the people in prison are in remand. If we actually carry out the short sentences, we can also break that vicious circle. Now is the time to vote on this proposal. I hope to be able to count on many yes votes for the text in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u91	Mr President, last week the headlines were about a revolution in the Justice Department. "Every punishment will be carried out." That title makes you think. By the way, that was also what our question was in the coalition agreement. It should be clear that a punishment, whatever its nature, is being carried out. That the execution of short sentences would now also be possible is called a revolution. Colleagues, it is actually a revolution in different phases. It all started in 2006 with the adoption of the law on external legal status, on which Mrs Onkelinx was responsible as then Minister of Justice. This important law established the criminal court and also made it competent for the short sentences of less than three years. However, that last provision never entered into force, which was resolved by letters of conversion. The penalties were no longer granted by a judge or by a criminal court. They joined the executive, especially the Minister of Justice, which led to a serious re-direction. In this respect, I am reading a very interesting piece in the Legal Journal, the Mercurial, which deals with the usefulness of punishment and the execution of sentences. The second important phase of the revolution dates back to 2017. Year after year, the hemisphere in the Chamber postponed its entry into force. We, too, were not happy with this, because we knew that justice did not have sufficient resources. So this was not obvious. But in 2017 we agreed that the entry into force should no longer be postponed and that in October 2019 the provision of the 2006 Law that the criminal enforcement court should be competent for the short sentences would enter into force. That is also the purpose of the legislative proposal that we are adopting today and of which Mrs Van Cauter is the main proposer. Indeed, since the procedure laid down in the 2006 law may be difficult, especially when it comes to shorter penalties, we have worked out a solution to this heavy and time-consuming procedure by simplifying and simplifying the legal text, which will make the legal text practically more practicable and enable the law to enter into force smoothly in October 2019. The text we are adopting today is therefore essential for a smooth and effective entry into force of the 2006 law on short sentences from 2020. That's how we implement the coalition agreement. It expressly stated that the credibility of the execution of the sentence had to be strengthened, that it was a priority that punishments should be carried out and that the transfer letter with regard to the short sentences would be revised. After all these years, correspondence on this subject will be abolished and we will be working on a credible sentence, the punishment, whatever its nature, can also be a punishment and the judgment of a judge can and must be respected, without it being unilaterally transposed. We know that judges today take account of the transposition and therefore impose heavier penalties to ensure that the sentence is implemented. We have had a difficult debate in the Committee on Justice about the usefulness of the punishment and our group is convinced that a lick-on policy, regardless of the nature of the punishment, even if it is short-term imprisonment, is important. By the way, that was confirmed by the prison director Hans Claus at the hearing. It is a matter of playing the ball briefly, as long as we work with the prisoners, they receive guidance and they are not simply put in the forget-point. That's essential. The feasibility of all this will stand or fall with additional resources. We have facilitated the procedure with the present legislative text, but we will obviously need additional resources. I dare say that in the past, punishment has never been a priority. It should be now. That is why the entry into force has always been postponed. I think that the adoption of the text should be the start of a new beginning. It is an important task and a very big challenge for the next federal government. We have reformed and codified a great deal in this legislature. I believe that it is now high time to link the right resources, people and infrastructure, so that the ground can work effectively and efficiently. The proposed texts are the first step, the beginning of the work, which will follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u92	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when we read this text, we are once again dubious. We realize that we are responding to a need, to a need. We have been waiting for this legislation since the law of 17 May 2006 in order to allow the enforcement court to also receive sentences of less than three years. This is the wish of the actors on the ground. At the same time, we realize that we are again sitting between two chairs because, between the speech, the text that will be put to the vote and the reality, the gap will again be great. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of hearings in our committee, I have rarely seen such unanimity, not on the substance of this proposal but on its inapplicability, at least in the present state of justice. Both the representatives of the Supreme Council of Justice, the representatives of the judge of the enforcement of sentences, the representatives of the houses of justice who are entrusted with the practical application of these provisions on the ground, or the representatives of the bars, everyone came to beg us: "Please do not vote this text! Do not vote this text as it is because it will be impracticable. It will be so impracticable that its effect will be to increase the number of cases that the sentencing courts will have to deal with and for which they are not ready. They do not have the means, neither material nor human, to deal with it." On the other hand, all the actors in the field have told us that the prison population will increase significantly. The calls were clear, serious, precise and objective. Nevertheless, the course is maintained by saying that the means will be found and that the entry into force could take place in 2020, the time to see how one can turn around. However, in the current situation and taking into account the budgets, the courts for the enforcement of sentences will not be able to cope with this complementary work. Irrespective of this, we are working backwards, as we have often done during this legislature. It would be more effective, simple and timely to reform our Penal Code, to revise the scale of sentences and to make a real reflection on the criminal penalty, on the prison sanction that is known to lead little to anything but recidivism, as is often observed. It's like we start building a house by its roof and say tomorrow we'll see how to fit the rest to the roof. We realize at the end that the house is not suitable for roofing. In order to forget this situation and until the reform of the Penal Code can be achieved, given what is expected of us in the coming weeks and months when it comes to considering the constitution of a government, it is illusory to think that this text can be implemented by 1 October 2020. I suggest that you postpone this implementation by one year. That is the purpose of the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u93	Mr President, as Mrs De Wit pointed out, this project is part of the great reform carried out while I was Minister of Justice. We had decided, of course, that every sentence handed down must be carried out, whether it be sentences of more than three years or sentences of less than three years, with the modalities for consistent enforcement. Mrs De Wit, I am the first to regret that this has not been done. You're the mother of a text, years go by and it's not executed. The problem is that, at the end of the legislature, we come in a hasty way to present an implementing text without giving ourselves the financial, material and human resources to carry out this project. I quote the Supreme Council of Justice: "The committee of opinion and inquiry meeting (it was not a lost member of the Supreme Council of Justice, it was the whole) supports in principle the idea of questioning the current system, which entrusts the executive branch and its administration with the execution of custodial sentences of less than three years, given the risk of arbitrariness and the lack of transparency that such a system entails. The committee insists that reform of this importance should not be carried out in haste, at the risk of creating a system that is even more critical than the one currently in force. The Committee recommends that amendments as substantial as those envisaged be adopted only as part of a comprehensive and coherent reform of the enforcement of sentences, ideally linked to the reform of the Criminal Code. It warns against the dangers resulting from a lack of prior analysis of the needs and means necessary for the practical implementation of the planned reform." That's right! That's strong! What does the Supreme Council of Justice say? That you're going to do worse than good! As Mr Brotcorn pointed out, all those who were heard in committee unanimously expressed that this is impossible. We need commitments from magistrates and clerks. New places would be needed in prison institutions or other types of reception facilities for the execution of sentences imposed. Anyway! This clearly does not seem possible. On the contrary! It is a project which, if it is implemented without means being implemented, without any reform being studied on this implementation, is likely to increase - and I have explained it extensively in committee - the recidivism rate which is already extremely high in our country. It is therefore a proposal which could lead to further insecurity in Belgium. This is crazy! We really had the impression that a few Members in the Committee on Justice wanted to get rid of a "bulk in the hat" by pretending to have succeeded in having a text voted when it is inapplicable. I sincerely regret this and will not go further on this point after I have made all my arguments in committee. Last Wednesday again, I explained for more than two hours why it was heresy and stick to that conviction. It is regrettable and unbearable that justice should be dealt with in this way! We do not give him the necessary resources, but we do impose inapplicable reforms on him. It's just not serious!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u94	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u95	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3527/11) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3527/11) The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "draft amending the law of 17 May 2006 concerning the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the procedures for the execution of the penalty for the custodial sentence of three years or less." "Proposal for a law amending the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the rules of criminal enforcement for the purpose of adjusting the procedure for the execution of the custodial sentence of three years or less'. The bill has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u96	Art. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... • 43 – Christian Brotcorne cs (3527/12) • 44 – Christian Brotcorne cs (3527/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u97	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u98	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 3, 8, 15, 23 and 26.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u99	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4 to 7, 9 to 14, 16 to 22, 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u100	******
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u101	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u102	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u103	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Werner Janssen, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u104	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is part of an operation to re-design the bodies responsible for insuring and controlling the payment of social contributions by self-employed workers. In concrete terms, it is envisaged that INASTI will now be responsible for the granting of exemptions from social security contributions and the supervision of social insurance funds. These tasks were previously assigned to the Independent DG of the Social Security FPS. In addition, the social insurance fund control service will be transformed into an audit service where it will no longer be necessary to impose, but only to accompany or advise. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this bill was adopted without much debate in the Committee on the Economy on 26 March. However, the plenary session offers us a new opportunity to discuss it. My group had based its support, on the one hand, on the positive opinion of the General Management Committee for the Social Status of Self-Employed Workers, and, on the other hand, on the opinion of the Council of State, which also had no objection, with the exception of a comment on the date of entry into force. I will return to that point. However, Minister, in the meantime we have received a number of inquiries and critical remarks on this reform which I would like to relay here. The first point concerns the individual situation of certain agents. You will remember that, following the opinion of the Council of State, an amendment to amend the date of entry into force on 1 April 2019 was tabled in committee. However, in Article 38 of the adopted text, the date of transfer of staff shall not be changed and shall remain on 1 January 2019. It is our responsibility that, for four agents who have been mutationed since then, this creates a problem since it will nullify the effect of their mutation. We are told that they will be able to go to the Council of State and win. But it will take a lot of time and create a lot of stress. We are still told that the date of 1 April is itself too short because the government still has to issue an implementing order requiring, in advance, negotiation and an opinion of the Council of State. This order cannot therefore be adopted and published until 1 April. Agents could be seriously harmed by this situation. Minister, could you shed some light on these problems? We would not like to vote here for a text that endangers certain agents. A second point concerns the ability of INASTI to assume independently its new supervisory powers over social insurance funds. INASTI is headed by a board of directors, which includes the direct and indirect representatives of social insurance funds. In the future, the latter could find themselves in a situation of control and control, with the risk of a conflict of interest in the key. It is not a matter of making a trial of intent, but of relaying the concerns before us. Social insurance funds are responsible for collecting several billion euros of social contributions annually for the self-employed scheme. They are financed through management fees; very large sums are involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u106	I'm talking about point 10. Perhaps there is a change in numbering?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u107	We are discussing item 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u108	Are these the provisions following the transfer of competences from the SPF Social Security to the National Institute of Social Insurance for Self-Employed Workers? You may have changed the numbering, because I was told it was point 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u109	This is the proposed law on bridge law in favour of self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u110	Excuse me! It is point 11 that I must intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u111	So the minister was right. You asked the minister some questions. When we turn to item 11, just repeat your questions to the minister so that he can answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u112	Mr President, I will speak briefly on this proposal for a law on bridge law in favour of self-employed workers. This is an extremely important point for many self-employed people. Indeed, as an independent person, one can, during his life and depending on the risk involved in this activity, encounter problems and be confronted with a cessation of activity. Together with the government, we wanted to further expand the bridge right, this replacement income for the self-employed who did not exist and which is a good achievement of this legislature, to allow more self-employed people to avail themselves of this right. The proposed legislation covers the purpose of our intention, namely, the extension of this bridge right as outlined in our policy note. The draft law provides for an enlargement which sees forced cessations no longer based on an exhaustive list of situations included in a royal decree, but rather on a more comprehensive definition. It will in effect extend the number of independents who can use this bridge right. It also doubles the maximum duration of use of the bridge right for the entire career of an independent. This period is increased to 24 months. This is therefore an extension of the law. These are the elements that I wanted to highlight, Mr President. This is a proposal aimed at reducing the social injustices still suffered by independents in our country compared to other categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3656/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3656/04) The bill has 15 articles. The bill has 15 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u116	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Isabelle Galant, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Stefaan Vercamer, Egbert Lachaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u117	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Wilrycx, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do we agree that I will not repeat the same litany... unless the minister really insists? [[Laughs]] Minister, I will resume a small part of my previous speech. The second point concerns the ability of INASTI to assume independently its new supervisory powers over social insurance funds. INASTI is headed by a board of directors, which includes the direct and indirect representatives of social insurance funds. In the future, the latter could find themselves in a situation of control and control. It is not a matter of making a trial of intent, but of relaying the concerns before us. Social insurance funds are responsible for collecting several billion euros of social contributions annually for the self-employed scheme. They are financed through management fees; very large sums are involved. The issue is whether the money of the independents will be well spent in the future and whether they will not be harmed in the management of their files. As you know, right-wing parties often attack the union management of unemployment benefits when it is very controlled. However, these social insurance funds, which are poorly controlled today, could be even less so in the future. Minister, can you give us your position on this point? What safeguards will be put in place to guarantee the independence of INASTI in its new task of monitoring social insurance funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u119	Mr President, Mr Delannois, we have already discussed these points in committee. I was able to point out that there were no risks to the staff of the Independent DG who are now working within the framework of this INASTI mission. A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed between this DG and INASTI. Everything is in order for our officials to be paid for this new mission. The protocol provides all the safety needed for the work done. With regard to the control of caisses, while it is indeed necessary to strengthen it further, INASTI has been operating it reliably, objectively and intensively for a long time. This strengthening of control and additional recommendations is a necessity for the Minister to ensure that the missions of the caisses are fully met. We can share in a cross-cutting way the objective of seeing these funds better and more controlled in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u120	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u121	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3640/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3640/6) The bill has 39 articles. The bill has 39 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u122	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 2 – Gilles Vanden Burre cs (3640/7) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u123	Sustained: the amendment and Article 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u124	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 37 and 39.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u126	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Rita Gantois, Werner Janssen, Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Cassart-Mailleux, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u128	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2966/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2966/4) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u129	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u130	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant, Frank Wilrycx, Nele Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u131	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Wilrycx, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u132	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3602/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3602/1) The bill has 33 articles. The bill has 33 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u133	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u134	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Maya Detiège, Youro Casier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u135	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Janssen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u136	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3029/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3029/3) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u138	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Michel de Lamotte, Benoît Lutgen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Wollants, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u140	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2023/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2023/5) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u141	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u142	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Benoît Friart, Frank Wilrycx, Leen Dierick, Nele Lijnen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u143	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Lalieux and Mr Janssen, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u144	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3621/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3621/7) The title was amended by the Committee in a proposal for a law amending Book I "Definitions" of Book XV "Legal Enforcement" and replacing Book IV "Protection of Competition" of the Code of Economic Law." The title has been amended by the Commission in the proposal for a law amending Book I; Definitions; Book XV; Application of the law; and Replacement of Book IV; Protection of Competition; Code of Economic Law. The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u145	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u146	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3569: Leen Dierick, Nele Lijnen, Isabelle Galant, Griet Smaers, Frank Wilrycx - 3548: Vanessa Matz, Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse, Karine Lalieux, Véronique Waterschoot, Evita Willaert, Michel de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u147	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Casier, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u148	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3569/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3569/4) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u149	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u150	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3563: Leen Dierick, Frank Wilrycx, Bert Wollants, Griet Smaers, Benoît Friart - 3191: Karine Lalieux, Jean-Marc Delizée, Fabienne Winckel, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Laurent Devin, Eric Thiébaut, Alain Mathot, Emir Kir, Jacques Chabot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u151	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Vanden Burre and Mrs Bellens, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u152	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3563/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3563/06) The bill has 11 articles. The bill has 11 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u153	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u154	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Stefaan Vercamer, Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u155	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Lachaert, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u156	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3620/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3620/3) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u157	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u158	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick, Isabelle Galant, Nele Lijnen, Frank Wilrycx, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u159	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Lalieux and Mr Friart, refer to their written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u160	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3570/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3570/8) The bill has 117 articles. The bill has 117 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u161	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u162	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1633: Dirk Janssens, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Ine Somers, Els Van Hoof - 41: Catherine Fonck - 1421: Catherine Fonck - 1599: An Capoen, Valerie Van Peel, Yoleen Van Camp, Jan Vercammen, Els Van Hoof - 1665: Karin Jiroflée, Anne Dedry, Karin Temmerman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u163	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Senesael and Mr Gustin, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are four proposals on smoking and the sale of tobacco products on the agenda today. These proposals have been dealt with extensively in committee and I shall therefore confine myself to what our group considers to be the most important. I would like to quote this not only because it is a legislative proposal of ours, but also because we think this is a very important issue. It is really bizarre that this discussion still needs to be held, because most of the parties have simply included the raising of the age for buying tobacco products in the party programme. It would therefore be expected that this could be approved very quickly in the Committee on Health. Strange twists of mind, however, have led to this proposal being voted away in committee by seven votes to seven and a few abstentions. That is why I am standing here today with an Article 88. Almost everyone in this hemisphere and outside is in favour of raising the age limit for buying tobacco products up to 18 years. There are also very good reasons for this. According to the World Health Organisation, smoking is one of the most important causes of death in the world that can be avoided with good prevention. This good prevention starts quite early, because smokers often start at a very young age. A study by Ghent University shows that the vast majority of young people start smoking at the age of 16 or earlier. From 17 years we actually see a sharp decrease in the number of novice smokers. The High Health Council therefore advocates raising the age limit for buying tobacco products from 16 to 18 years. They're right, too. Not only do destitute smokers often start at a very young age, especially those who start young also have a much greater chance of developing an addiction at a later age. This is again demonstrated by academic research. Moreover, the latest VAD student survey shows that young people between 16 and 18 years of age indicate that they can get tobacco quite easily. In young people under 16, this falls from 8 to 10 to 4 to 10. Of course the influence of peer pressure of their friends should not be underestimated. These friends obviously play a role in supplying cigarettes and other tobacco-related products. "They raise young people's perception of general smoking prevalence in the population and thus help to create a standard in which smoking is accepted." That concludes the same study of Ghent University. Our bill was voted down in the Committee on Health, as has just been said. This was only possible due to CD&V's vote against. It's a shame no one from CD&V is here. However, CD&V is a party that had itself tabled a resolution to raise this age limit. We have no doubt that this was not a vote of principle against, but rather a vote of loyalty to the government's partner Open Vld. After all, it is generally known that Minister De Block is particularly opposed to raising the age limit. It could be said that this sudden loyalty adorns CD&V, but unfortunately this is at the expense of the health of our youngsters. Meanwhile, Belgium remains the only country in the European Union that has not raised the age limit for buying tobacco products to 18 years, despite the fact that there is very broad support for this and in many countries this age limit has already been raised to 21 years. It is clear that we do not play a leading role in this area. Dear CD&V Members and colleagues of the MR, I am looking at you. Your party programme has a good position, because it says that you are in favour of raising the age limit for buying tobacco products to 18 years. That is a better position than what you have adopted in the Committee on Health, and in particular your vote against. I therefore invite you to reverse the rejection of the draft law in committee under Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u165	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been difficult not to intervene on such an important point as that of tobacco and tobacco control, which must of course remain a priority objective in the field of public health. I think it is important to recall that we have worked in this area in this Parliament, even if we have not been so far as to exclude the use of tobacco, which was not the purpose. As a reminder, an anti-smoking directive has entered into force. We have been waiting for it for a long time and it was finally born under this legislature. It contains a number of key tobacco control measures, three specific examples of which are the regulation on electronic cigarettes, the imposition of greater health warnings on tobacco products and the ban on menthol cigarettes. Moreover, this legislature has also seen the increase in the reimbursement of medicines prescribed for smoking cessation – a fundamental element –, the increase in the number of monitors within the Public Health FPS, and thus the strengthening of controls on smoking bans. It is good to take a number of initiatives, but it is still necessary to check whether the legislation is properly implemented and complied with. A considerable effort has been made during the legislature to raise excise duties and the price of tobacco by relying on specific excise duties. The price gap between cigarettes and rolling tobacco has been greatly reduced. It should also be noted that the increase in excise duties has had the following effects on the price of packages: the weighted average price of a package of 50 grams of rolling tobacco was increased from €5.51 in 2014 to €8.35 in 2018, an increase of 52%. The weighted average price of a cigarette package increased from €5.31 in 2014 to €6.08 in 2018, an increase of 15%. Additional excise duties, of which we have discussed a great deal in the context of the tax shift, have thus been levied in the range of 700 to 720 million euros. We have also ratified the Protocol to Eliminate the Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, which will enter into force in Belgium on 23 May 2019. The implementation of the package of neutral cigarettes is on track. We have had to refer to a number of experiences at European or even global level, but we are coming to this measure. We also approved in committee the end of the sale of cigarettes in vending machines. However, this text is notified to the European Commission because, as you know, a number of decisions which are taken here in Belgium must also be notified at European level. Today, therefore, we complete this arsenal of measures with a federal ban on smoking by car in the presence of children. Of course, all measures will never replace health education. Education remains the fundamental and primary vehicle for making young people and young people aware that smoking remains harmful and extremely dangerous. In order to do so, information must be disseminated particularly within families, with parents also taking on their responsibilities. On the other hand, of course, I insist on actions at the level of schools, universities, youth movements and sports clubs. This weekend, I had the opportunity to go to a sports club in Holland to attend an international competition. I found that tobacco was banned around the grounds and in clubhouses, including alcohol. This was a competition for young people under 16 years of age. Belgium should take an example of these initiatives, which can only be carried out in the interests of the health of our children. There is a need to inform and raise awareness of the health risks associated with tobacco use. In order to do so, the campaigns will have to be stepped up. Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the different information that I still wanted to give today, because tobacco remains an element to be combated on a daily basis. Through our initiatives, I think we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u166	Mr. Secretary, there were only statements of support. You may but do not have to take the floor. You're not asking for the floor? [[No, no, ……]] Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u167	We begin by discussing the articles of the Bill No. 1633. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1633/5) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 1633. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1633/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 22 December 2009 on a general regime for non-smoking closed places accessible to the public and for the protection of workers from tobacco smoke, in order to introduce a smoking ban in closed vehicles in the presence of children under 16 years of age." The title has been amended by the committee to propose a law amending the Act of 22 December 2009 establishing a general regulation on the prohibition of smoking in closed places accessible to the public and the protection of workers from tobacco smoke, with a view to introducing a ban on smoking in covered vehicles in the presence of children under 16 years of age". The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u168	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject the legislative proposal No. 1599 will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject Bill No. 1599 will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u169	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1093: David Clarinval, Stéphanie Thoron, Damien Thiéry, Benoît Piedboeuf, Luc Gustin, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u170	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u171	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u173	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1093/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1093/4) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law on the taking of the logopedic benefits in kind." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the taking over of the services of logopedia". The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u174	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u175	Sustained: the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u176	Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u177	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u178	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3496: Georges Dallemagne, Vanessa Matz - 3521: Julie Fernandez Fernandez, Eric Thiébaut, Nawal Ben Hamou - 3562: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u179	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs De Coninck, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u180	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3496/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3496/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on Access to the Territory, Residence, Establishment and Removal of Foreigners in order to make the exercise of the discretionary powers of the Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration transparent." The title has been amended by the Commission to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to the territory, residence, establishment and removal of aliens in order to create transparency with regard to the exercise of the discretionary powers of the Minister who has the Asylum and Migration in his powers". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u181	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u182	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Vincent Van Quickenborne, Ine Somers, Damien Thiéry, Sandrine De Crom, Nahima Lanjri, Stefaan Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u183	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Kitir, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u184	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3622/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3622/7) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u185	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 6 – Catherine Fonck (3622/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u186	• 7 p.m. Catherine Fonck (3622/8) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u187	Sustained: the amendments and Articles 2 and 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u188	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 3 and 5 to 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u189	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u190	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 95: David Clarinval, Stephanie Thoron, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau - 1001: Anne Dedry, Meyrem Almaci, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Jean-Marc Nollet, Sarah Schlitz - 120: Julie Fernandez Fernandez - 625: Catherine Fonck - 3359: Meryame Kitrir.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u191	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Delizée and Mr Vercamer, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u192	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great satisfaction that I see this proposal closing the debate on this end of the parliamentary term. At MR, we have always been particularly sensitive to the situation of close caregivers on a daily basis. Under the previous legislature, we had recognized and given a definition that was closest to reality. But it was not really able to open up specific rights linked to this new status. It was precisely in this context that the MR Group had, from the beginning of the legislature, tabled a proposal to that effect. As you know, the current government was working on this issue before it found itself in day-to-day business. Many parties had submitted texts aimed at improving the situation of all those who decided to put their professional lives in brackets to take care of a loved one. By common accord, we have decided to work together with the ministers and cabinets concerned. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Pensions and the Minister of Middle Classes for their involvement in this project. As a parliamentarian, this is the first time that a proposal that is the result of collective work has come to the table and can finally come to fruition, not for us or for our ego, but for these thousands of people waiting for real recognition of their precarious situation and the beginning of a real openness to social rights. What is going to change very concretely for close caregivers is summarized as follows. At the definition level, any person who provides ongoing or regular assistance and support to the assisted person will be recognized as a close caregiver. The aided person will no longer have to be in a situation of great dependence as before. Today, this aid is being extended to all people who are dependent and recognised with a minimum of 12 points by the medical profession. A simple declaration of honour to the mutuality of the assisted person will suffice as a formality to be recognized as close carer. A close caregiver who engages in an activity as an employee may suspend his activity either entirely or half-time, for a period of one month, which may be extended to six months, if a royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers is adopted to that effect. In the event that the caregiver is a person with a work disability, the caregiver will have to submit to the physician-counsel's analysis, which will check whether the two situations are compatible. Periods of suspension of work, provided that they are recognized as such, shall be taken into account for the right to a pension. Finally, the most important thing is that the immediate caregiver will receive an allowance under this support. This financial assistance will be welcome in many situations. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, this is a major step forward for those people who have been waiting for this recognition for too long. For the moment, this will only concern salaried workers. The same openness will have to be for the benefit of the self-employed. In any event, the proposal also intends to evaluate this new thematic leave within a few years, so that it can be adjusted, supplemented or modified as necessary, in line with the realities of the field. These close caregivers, as they are called, have great value, not only in social terms, but also from an economic point of view. To give them our support was much more than a necessity. It had become a moral obligation, which we are fulfilling today. My group and I are pleased to be able to support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u193	Mr President, I too would like to express my appreciation for the fact that we are able to achieve the proposal before us in Parliament. An average household care period lasts ten years, while with the existing motivated time appropriations we come to about four years or 51 months. This, on average, is far from enough to bridge the family care period, especially in situations where a child with disabilities, a young dementing partner and so on. In any case, it is a win-win situation, because the proposal before us makes the combination between work and family care viable and affordable and feasible. The hands of carers are also free hands in care. If we had to replace it with nurses or nurses, I would also have made a study of it myself and wrote books about it in a previous life that would cost EUR 23 billion a year. We must therefore cherish these free hands in the care. In addition, working carers become significantly more ill than working non-coach carers. There are studies on this too. In other words, there are payback effects when one supports carers and certainly working carers better. So it is absolutely not something that costs the state cash. I have spent almost five years in my legislative proposal collecting dust, and I am glad that we have managed to set up a working group in current cases. Then it is less important who may be the first petitioner on the bill, as long as the breakthrough comes, and so there is. I agree with my colleague, who said that it is absolutely not enough, but at least it is a very important first step, with benefits and equivalent pension rights. So it is certainly a step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u194	Are there any other colleagues who would like to speak? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u195	Mr President, good progress is being made today towards the status of carers. I know that this problem was Mrs Dedry's opus magnum, but it was also a concern of many other colleagues. Every time we take steps forward, and that is a good thing, because, as Mrs Dedry says, carers are essential in our society and must be rewarded and not punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u196	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u197	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (95/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (95/5) The bill has 33 articles. The bill has 33 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u198	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u199	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2002: Valerie Van Peel, Catherine Fonck, Yoleen Van Camp - 2453: Catherine Fonck Anne Dedry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u200	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Clarinval and Mrs Fonck, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u201	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, say that you should choose between getting a lot of money to pay the heavy medical costs during the last few months of life, or not getting money but hoping for justice after death. What would you choose? Both, we can't do that in this country. Well, that is the fate of asbestos victims. Unlike in other countries, there was only one trial in this country against one of the largest asbestos companies, in particular Eternit. He was the son of Françoise Jonckheere who for years fought a very lonely battle against this powerful building materials producer. By the way, the company was rightly sentenced in 2011 to pay compensation of EUR 250 000, but it appealed. The Jonckheere family, more specifically Eric Jonckheere, has called the case a long fight against the omerta, a battle against Goliath by David, a lonely David as well. It might be thought that this is perhaps because his mother is the only victim of asbestos, of Eternit, but the asbestos deaths in Kapelle-on-den-Bos.. where the company is located....................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Jonckheere family alone has four deaths to regret so far. One might also think that there have not been many processes because Eternit can refute the fact that asbestos has continued to be used when it was already known for a long time that it could cause lung cancer and asbestososis. Although Eternit himself claims that they only gained knowledge of the dangers in the 1970s, the scientific evidence for the relationship between asbestos and cancer was already accumulated in the 1950s. Moreover, listen carefully, the company continued to produce asbestos in Kapelle-op-den-Bos until 1994. Even more, asbestos waste was distributed to the neighbors, was processed in the driveways and is in almost every building in our country. The answer to the question why there are so few asbestos processes in our country, while Italy, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands drove several, very strict criminal judgments in asbestos processes, is very cynical. It has to do with what's on the table here today. For the sake of clarity, I will say this straight away, we are taking very important and important steps in this respect, but one important step is not. This has to do with the Asbestos Fund, which has been created after years of lobbying of the companies concerned: it gives victims on their deathbed nothing more than a fake choice. In my opinion, that choice should not be a choice. After all, by accepting compensation from the fund in order to be able to pay the high rise in medical costs in the last few months of his life, the asbestos victim automatically waives his right to sue the responsible former asbestos company before the court. Of course, the time and energy of such victims are scarce. Once the symptoms are there, it's a matter of months or weeks, so everyone chooses the Asbestos Fund. That's why, and only for that reason, the Jonckheere family is on their own with her trial to this day. Not with her story, not at all, but with her legal struggle. The mother, Françoise Jonckheere, died in 2000 of lung cancer caused by the inhalation of asbestos. Her husband worked in the company. The company, as I said, went down the streets, along the schools and the squares with trucks full of asbestos for years. Like everyone else in the congregation, she, like her husband, was working in the company, without too much protection. Risks were not discussed for a very long time, and the residents and the workers were not heard until decades later, although they had long been known internally. Françoise's husband died of lung cancer in 1987. 13 years later, when she was diagnosed with the disease, she decided not to deal with proposed damages. She had to subpoena Eternit. A life is not for sale, she must have thought. Justice was all she had left, but a few months later she died years before the first verdict. Her five sons continued the battle. Two of them succumbed to the same type of cancer in 2003 and 2009. Four people from one family! Now I describe one family, but there are hundreds in that region and, unfortunately, in many other regions in our country. The historical compromise on the Abest Fund was reached in 2007. Let me be clear, in itself that was a very good thing. However, there was also a strange maneuver at the time. After there was a broad agreement in the Senate, the bill was suddenly drawn up by the government. Then Prime Minister Verhofstadt came up with a draft instead of the Chamber-wide proposal which had very different ideas, after extensive consultation with the asbestos industry itself. We have already talked about the immunity obtained by the companies in this area, but did you know that the fund is being fed correctly by the public authorities, because there too mistakes have been made and by all the employers in this country, not only by the polluters? So it is not just the companies that have deliberately continued to work with asbestos. The polluter pays! I often hear this here in Parliament, although there is usually a little more presence. That is also a wonderful principle, but for Eternit among others it is a far-from-their-bed show. Who really pays here, besides the numerous victims? No one, I guess. I keep saying that it is an immoral choice that the legislator has imposed on these victims. I have been working on this issue for years and I have been trying for years to convince my colleagues from other parties to finally get rid of this illegality. I found partners at CDH and at Groen-Ecolo. Despite what I have just explained here, the other political parties, for reasons of lobbying, the trade unions at one and the VBO and the companies at the other, have maintained their position. Fortunately, there are few here, but those Members should be ashamed of themselves! I would like to end with a more positive note, because if everything goes well, we will approve this agreement tomorrow with all of us. We should be very proud of that. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members, especially my fellow Members, Mr Dedry and Mr Fonck, who have greatly broadened our proposal. The fate of asbestos victims who will turn to the Asbestos Fund will certainly improve with this agreement, which we cannot deny. An important factor is that the limitation period is adjusted. In the previous agreement, the limitation period was 20 years, while the first symptoms of exposure to asbestos only emerge 30 to 40 years later. De facto, therefore, that gave additional immunity in this case. However, we are resolving this now by ensuring that the limitation period does not start until the disease is diagnosed and will continue to run for five years. It is also important to add lung and larynx cancer to the list of recognised diseases. That has been scientifically proven for a long time, and it is certainly a well-deserved extension that has come to fruition at the request of Green Ecolo. There will also be a smoother transmission of the health file. This will allow us to make the links with the patient's past and work history clearer. We will ensure that the compensation will start from the first day of the month on which the diagnosis was made and not a month after the Asbestos Fund has been registered. That too is not unimportant if we know that these victims die not only a horrible death, but also a very rapid death, and that extra one or two months really make a difference day and night. An additional capital of EUR 10 000 is provided for the main group of asbestos patients. For funeral expenses, a fee of EUR 1 000 is provided for, now also for the victims of the funeral. Those are the people who have never been at work in the companies, but who still need the same immunity. There will also be an increase in the budget for monitoring and prevention of asbestos. You hear it, it's a whole list. I would like to thank my fellow Members, especially those who have pushed along, especially those from CdH, Green and Ecolo, for the fact that we have reached a Chamber-wide agreement, but I cannot hide the fact that I have a very double feeling. After all, I still think it is very wrong that such injustice should continue to be included in this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u202	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel has been very full in her explanation. I will not repeat what she has said. After all, we have a lot on the agenda. Besides the well-known Jonckheere family, there are many Eternits victims in that region. We lost a very valuable person in our political ranks a few years ago, Willy Vanderstappen, to this asbestos problem. Not that he was an employee, but he did become an environmental victim. In this way I became personally involved in this problem. Willy was a colleague of mine. I very much welcome the improvements and successes that we have been able to achieve by looking for a compromise in Parliament. We have been able to achieve a number of important enlargements. In this way, current cases also have their advantages. I fully agree with Mrs Van Peel. I also share her frustration at the fact that we have not been able to get through the 'polluter pays' principle through the lifting of civil immunity. However, that will probably be one of the first things that we will put back on the agenda in the next legislative period, because this really cannot be done. The stone that we have now moved provides a serious improvement. It is only a pity that it has taken so long and it has only succeeded at the end of the legislative period. However, it has been successful, and that is why I would like to thank all my fellow Members who have supported it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u203	Mr President, it has been a long time since the PTB denounced the fact that, in the case of asbestos, a principle is not applied: that of the polluter pays. I know that this bill will not solve everything. Nevertheless, in our country, a situation remains where the seventh richest family in Belgium – according to the website derijkstebelgen.be – the Emsens family, whose heritage is worth 3.3 billion euros, has built its gigantic fortune on corpses. I cannot say otherwise because since the middle of the 20th century, the Emsens and associates knew that asbestos was carcinogenic. "We knew it and we didn't do anything." That's the opposite! Eternit's bosses – because it's about them – have done something: develop intensive lobbying in order to hide the reality of the terrible dangers of asbestos. They are responsible for many cases of deadly diseases which, moreover, cause atrocious suffering. This bill is a beginning to redress this injustice. That's not the end of it. It will be necessary to continue to move forward on this issue in the next legislature. Nevertheless, today, an important step can be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u204	Mr President, I would like to thank the authors for the improvements that have been made to the Asbestos Fund, which has proved its worth since its creation. I have known several patients who have been affected by asbestososis and have also submitted applications. I can tell you that the recognition by the Asbestos Fund and the receipt of compensation for their illness was a slight consolation for those concerned. I understand Mrs Van Peel's argument. However, we have had this examined. However, if you accept a settlement, you will refrain from a legal follow-up. This is the case in the case of occupational diseases and in many other legal cases. Mrs Van Peel does not acknowledge that fact. It suggests that the legislator can do other cases. Mrs. Van Peel, I know you'll be working on the file. In any case, your proposal was not possible now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u205	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u206	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2002/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2002/8) The title was changed by the Committee to "the proposal for a law to improve compensation for asbestos victims." The title has been amended by the committee in the proposal for a law improving the compensation of victims of asbestos". The bill has 10 articles. The bill has 10 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u207	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u208	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u209	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u210	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3679/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3679/1) The draft law has two articles. The project has 2 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u211	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u212	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Katja Gabriels, Sandrine De Crom.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u213	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Christoph D'Haese and Mrs Monica De Coninck, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u214	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3618/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3618/6) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens". The bill has 23 articles. The bill has 23 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u215	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u216	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Valerie Van Peel, Yoleen Van Camp, Jan Vercammen, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u217	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Karin Jiroflée, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u218	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3537/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3537/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law on trafficking in human organs and on the principle of non-punishment for victims of trafficking in human beings." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law on trafficking in human organs and on the principle of non-punishment of victims of trafficking in human beings." The bill counts 18 articles. The bill has 18 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u219	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u220	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Anne Dedry, Evita Willaert, Wouter De Vriendt, Marcel Cheron, Jean-Marc Nollet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u221	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1981/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (1981/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Daniel Senesael, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u222	Mr President, I can be very brief. We are still far too little aware of vector diseases. I was even asked in committee what that means. It is about the mosquitoes and the sign, and it is about globalisation and climate change. There is still a lack of knowledge about these vectors in our country. There is also no general registration and no reporting requirement for certain vector diseases. So there can still be some attention going to it. We did not get the climate law through, but at COP21 we committed ourselves to tackling climate problems and global warming. In this context, this resolution, which very simply asks to examine what additional measures are needed, also in the area of border control, and what advice the Tropical Institute gives in order to better inform the population. She also asked for a better assessment of the risks in the field of travel medicine. I would like to thank my fellow Members for approving this Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u223	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u224	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Katja Gabriels, Sandrine De Crom, Nahima Lanjri, Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u225	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Alain Top, refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u226	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3710/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3710/4) The bill has 40 articles. The bill has 40 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u227	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u228	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3624: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne - 2533: Veerle Wouters, Hendrik Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u229	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Peter Dedecker, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u230	Mr President, the main element is, of course, the reform of feminization demanded by everyone since, until now, there was only one woman in the scoreboard of the National Bank. There is now an obligation to have a third party, as is the case in many other legislations. We are therefore very pleased to see this change coming. There is also a series of essentially technical provisions. One of them is really important and concerns whistleblowers since the reform aims at non-discrimination in financial institutions that are under the control of the National Bank. From now on, every informant who communicates information in good faith will be protected from reprisals. This is obviously very important. These are the two main elements of this text in favour of which, of course, our group will vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u231	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u232	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3624/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3624/5) The bill has 241 articles. The bill has 241 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u233	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u234	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 April 2019, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Kattrin Jadin) amending the Law of 23 March 2019 establishing the Code of Companies and Associations and laying down various provisions, No. 3739/1, to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u235	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 24 April 2019, I propose that you take into consideration the bill (Ms Kattrin Jadin) amending the Act of 23 March 2019 introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and laying down various provisions, No. 3739/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u236	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u237	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Eric Van Rompuy, Griet Smaers, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u238	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Steven Vandeput, refers to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u239	Mr President, this is the transposition of an important directive, since a new procedure is being established to resolve tax disputes, particularly with regard to the preventive convention on double taxation. It is a relaxation that opens up much more scope for recourse by individuals or SMEs. We can only rejoice in that. Individuals and entities involved in a dispute involving double taxation will be able to assert their rights more easily and avoid a disproportionate tax burden. Another positive point is that, for the Member States, from the moment it is adopted by all the States, procedures are standardized. This avoids the risk of divergence. It's really very positive. It is important that dispute resolution mechanisms be comprehensive and effective. This ensures legal certainty and an investment-friendly environment. We will of course vote for this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u240	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u241	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3653/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3653/5) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in "Proposal for a law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for the settlement of tax disputes in the European Union". The title in French has been amended by the Commission in "proposal for a law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2017/1852 of 10 October 2017 on mechanisms for the settlement of tax disputes in the European Union". The bill has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u242	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u243	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u244	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u245	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3648/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3648/5) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law on various provisions on value added tax and amending the tax relief for gifts." The title has been amended by the Committee on the Proposal for a Law on various provisions on value added tax and amending the tax reduction for gifts". The bill has 19 articles. The bill has 19 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u246	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u247	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Eric Van Rompuy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u248	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Peter Dedecker, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u249	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3699/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3699/5) The bill has 50 articles. The bill has 50 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u250	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u251	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veli Yüksel, Karin Temmerman, Evita Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u252	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3611/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (3611/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux and Mr Emmanuel Burton, rapporteurs, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u253	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Jef Van den Bergh, Nele Lijnen, Sandrine De Crom, Emmanuel Burton.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u254	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u255	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3644/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3644/6) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u256	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u257	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Laurent Devin, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Karine Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u258	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2606/1) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2606/1) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mrs Sandrine De Crom, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u259	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to address this House, at least to my colleagues who will not support this motion for a resolution. It can be said that they believe that adopting such a resolution makes no sense to a government in day-to-day affairs at the end of the legislature, or that there is no immediate threat to the presence of attendants on SNCB trains. To them, I would like to recall that the symbolic and political significance of this resolution goes beyond the particular context in which we find ourselves. Indeed, by adopting this resolution, Parliament sends several clear messages. First of all, we recognise the quality of the work of SNCB agents, in a particularly difficult context with pension reform, the increased responsibility arising from administrative sanctions, the inadequacy of the employees of Securail and the Railway Police, the closure of some windows at the railway stations, the reduction of the staff combined with a requirement to increase productivity, etc. Staff on SNCB trains continue to provide work that is recognized and appreciated by SNCB users. My colleague, Mrs Grovonius, has also referred it back to the committee. The service on board trains is distinguished in two ways in SNCB's latest satisfaction survey. In addition to being the service of SNCB most appreciated by commuters, it is one of the few whose appreciation is increasing. This tribute is all the more important because it is unfortunately part of a context where attacks on these workers are on the rise. This resolution sends another message: we are defending a quality public service. We do not want the minimum service, but the maximum service for our citizens. Anyone who has already taken the train knows that the train attendant is essential to providing quality service and secure travel to commuters. He is the first contact to find out, and is on the front line in case of unforeseen or problem. Its presence is therefore not a luxury but a necessary condition for a public service worthy of that name. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not imagine that the majority obtained in committee will be called into question in plenary. The staff of our public companies, who were too ill-treated under this legislature, deserve our consideration and recognition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u260	Are there any other colleagues who would like to speak? [[No.]] Mr Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u261	Mr President, I should like to inform my colleague that SNCB has confirmed the definitive abandonment of the analysis of the One Man Car project. It's a decision of the board of directors, taken two weeks ago. The study of this project, which had been initiated under a previous government, is therefore definitively terminated. In any event, the idea was put in the fridge once and for all and the resulting work is interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u262	Thank you, Minister. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place later. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u263	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vandenput, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u264	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3631/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3631/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u265	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u266	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u267	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u268	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3632/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3632/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u269	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u270	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u271	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u272	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3633/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3633/3) The title was changed in Dutch by the Committee to "draft law approving the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Republic of Cape Verde on Air Traffic, drawn up in Brussels on 26 October 2017'. "Design of legislation approving the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Government of the Republic of Cape Verde on air traffic, drawn up in Brussels on 26 October 2017'. The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u273	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u274	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u275	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u276	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3634/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3634/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u277	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u278	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u279	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u280	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3635/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3635/3) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u281	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u282	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u283	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u284	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3643/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3643/1) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u285	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u286	In the meantime, the committee has met on the amendments and the rapporteur, Mr Van Hecke, will now report to us orally on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u287	Mr President, the Committee on Justice has indeed re-examined the text and, in particular, the amendments tabled. There are three amendments, which relate to Article 116 of the legislative proposal. The amendments were explained by the authors. The Minister of Justice replied in detail and explained the history of the legislative text. He also referred to the international obligations underlying the proposed legislative text. After the explanatory statement and discussion, the amendments tabled were put to the vote. Mr De Roover's amendment was first voted on. That amendment took seven votes in favour, seven against and one abstention and was therefore rejected. Mr Maingain's amendment was then adopted. There was one vote in favour, five against and nine abstentions. That amendment was not accepted either. Finally, the vote was taken on Mr Brotcorne's amendment. This was not accepted either, with one vote in favour, seven against and seven abstentions. No changes have therefore been made to the legislative proposal, which will return to plenary as it stands.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u288	Mr Van Hecke, thank you for the report. I call Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u289	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, so much has already been said about the criminalisation of the denial of genocide that we would almost forget that there are many other provisions in the text, which are also very important. If you will allow me, I would like to talk very briefly about this. Colleagues, what provisions does the bill contain? It contains many provisions on criminal law: from amendments that are obvious and/or technical, to repair provisions resulting from case law and transpositions of European or international regulations. It is about adjustments that are all important for the functioning and practice of justice. I am very pleased that we can still approve the text, even if it is at the end of the legislative period. It would have been irresponsible to put it off. We are once accused of being rushed by the proposal, but honesty requires me to say that the text of the former Swedish Government is coming, that the preliminary draft has already been knocked off and has been submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. The text has thus gone a long way before coming to the Chamber for discussion as a legislative proposal that was tabled after the fall of the government. As I said, it's about small and large regulations. I would like to make a few brief comments and explain some of them a little bit more. It concerns technical corrections to the law on special detection methods. It concerns an extension and updating of the audiovisual interrogation technique. This is very important in many cases, because the group that can be interviewed is also being expanded. There is also the adaptation to the new data carriers, because we have been arriving in the 21st century for some time. Shorter time limits will be introduced for the rapid right and the summoning of minutes, so as to allow for a faster response to simple facts. These are all important points. For us, it is important that some of the legislative proposals that we tabled as a group earlier were included in the legislative proposal. This concerns, among other things, Mr Van Vaerenbergh's legislative proposal, which would make it easier to enforce the ban on housekeeping in the event of intra-family violence. If you get a restraining order and you fail to comply with it, this can now be a criminal offence, which can even be followed by an arrest. That will help, of course, because until further notice it will not be possible. That means that until now a family violent person can actually just stay at home again, even if he does not comply with his restraining order. That's where we're trying to adjust a sleeve. The urgency procedure shall also be adapted to the rule and the maximum time limits. It is really important to be able to better protect victims of intra-family violence. There are also provisions on terrorism. I read in the newspaper yesterday that colleagues Dewael and Somers are asking for more severe sanctions against terrorist crimes. Well, they are being served at their beck and call, because in the legislative proposal before us today, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, we are transforming some of the recommendations made by the Commission on attacks into regulations. There will be clear rules for the criminal courts when, for example, they want to allow someone to travel abroad. A number of terrorist offences are defined and their scope strengthened. Aggravating circumstances are also added, so that more severe penalties can be imposed. There are also two new criminal offences. Actually, there are more, because we introduce international regulations into our legislation. Even if we were already very far away, we have supplemented the text: from now on we will be training ourselves to commit an attack also punishable, as well as making decisions in the context of the activities of a terrorist group. This means that we are creating an intermediate category with higher levels of punishment. In the end, all this will make it possible to impose stricter penalties. So to the colleagues from Open Vld who made a communication about this in the media yesterday, I would like to say:at your service. That's okay. Another important measure is the detection methods for fugitives. That's actually a big flaw in our law. Police services today have very few powers and resources to track down fugitives. We've already approved the SUO in the hemisphere, the criminal execution investigation. That's possible for convicts trying to avoid their power sanctions. We can then take research measures to find out where they have hidden their money and resources, so that the power sanctions can be carried out. However, for those who escape punishment and are fugitives, the police do not really have any resources. We are trying to solve this by allowing the police to use a number of detection methods, namely the telephone tap, the search, the observation and the infiltration, methods that are also possible in the context of an investigation. All this is evidently done in a framework with the necessary checks and balances, with the permission of an investigating judge. That is obvious, but that defect is corrected. I now come to the more efficient approach to tax fraud: we are also repairing the una via tax offences. There was a partial destruction following a judgment of the Constitutional Court and an adaptation had to be made to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice. What is new is that there will be one procedure for the criminal court to which the tax authority will also be party, which means that a decision by the criminal court will immediately give an enforceable title to the tax administration to obtain payments of the tax debt. Of course, the avoidance of double penalties is taken into account: if administrative sanctions have already been imposed, they must be taken into account. However, by organising an una-via consultation between the public prosecutor, the administration and, where appropriate, the police, and by one single procedure for the criminal court, we are trying to organise a more efficient approach to tax fraud and thus to optimise cooperation between the court and the tax authorities. I would like to raise a fifth point, in particular the procedure for the Court of Assists. There are enthusiasts and opponents of assistes: you love it or you hate it. However, no one can deny, not even those who love it, that it is an archaic procedure that takes up not only a lot of time but also a lot of resources, not only financial resources but also staff resources from the courts, staff that cannot be used for other cases and hearings over a long period of time. What are we trying to do with this proposal? Earlier in the legislature, we tried to remove as many as possible from assists and have them brought before a proper court by means of an even more extensive correction. In the meantime, there has been a judgment on this matter, which will once again bring about far more assassins, but it seems logical to us that we should try to simplify, relax and make the assistance procedure less archaic. We have had a very wide-ranging debate on this in the Committee on Justice, because there too the necessary checks and balances are and remain very important. We have also organized hearings on this subject in committee, and on the basis of proposals made by people who do assists on a daily basis, we had put in a number of proposals to make adjustments. We therefore assume that these adjustments will be carried because they have been given to us by people from practice. In this way, we try to make the assistance process smoother. These are all important aspects. However, there is one more thing I would like to mention and where the lawyer comes up in me. We have just had the debate in committee on negationism and genocide. Like all of you, I have received e-mails on the Armenian issue and the concern that exists about it. This aspect has just been mentioned by Mr De Roover and I shall not repeat it. We were also contacted by many journalists and historians. They too are concerned. They wonder whether they can still carry out historical research. They wonder whether they can afford another critical piece of opinion. They wonder how far they can go and whether their freedom of expression is affected. I would like to see the following in the report, because I think this is important. If we want to know the intention of the legislator, we are going to look at the parliamentary acts. It is about meetings like this. If the provision is not taken out of the law, and this has not just happened in committee, it is important that I clarify a number of things. The Armenian question was dealt with by my colleague. With regard to the concerns of journalists and historians, they wonder how far they can go in their investigations, because there is still so much to be investigated and looked at, I would like to make it clear that this provision provides for a number of criminal elements. Some of these elements are nevertheless crucial. On the one hand, there is the aspect of international recognition. This is important for the discussion on the Armenian genocide. On the other hand, there is also a need for a special element. We include the criminalisation of negationism in the anti-racism and xenophobia law. This means that the offences must have a special purpose, in other words, one must have the intention of inciting people to violence or discrimination. I cannot imagine that a journalist who wants to write a critical piece, whatever genocide, to the advantage of one party or another, or a historian, who wants to investigate what it is about and may therefore present things that have never been mentioned but which could shed a different light on the whole issue, would have the intention of inciting violence or discrimination. This element must always be satisfied so that an offence is punishable. It is therefore not the intention to make historians, researchers and journalists who want to write an opinion document or who want to express a critical opinion punishable for their opinion or positioning. For our group, freedom of expression is particularly important, without doubt. An opinion is a free opinion and should always be, even if an opinion is sometimes regarded as objectionable. However, a very important frontier is the trigger for violence, discrimination or much more, because in that case it is no longer about freedom of expression. The present legislative proposal provides for a legal guarantee in this area. For the report I would like to make this very clear, because that is very important to me as a lawyer, regardless of the discussion on another element that we have had in committee. Mr President, the debate on the denial of genocide is very important, but I also think it is important that other elements have received some attention. For this reason, I have mentioned some elements that threatened to get snowed under. In this way, I think that a few more stones have been moved in this legislature, important stones, if you ask me. I would like to thank the members of the committee for their commitment at the end of this legislature, which has made this possible. At certain times, the debate was firm, especially with Mrs Onkelinx, but the debate was always about content, and I like it. That is how I like to work; that is how we have always worked in committee. That we could do that until the last minute, I appreciate it. I think that is a good tradition, and I therefore wish that those Members who enter the Committee on Justice in the next legislative term honour that tradition of substantive work. Colleagues, I would like to thank you for your cooperation. After the substantive debate, I hope that tomorrow's vote will include the adoption of provisions which may not reach the media today, but which are very important for our group and, in my view, also for the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u290	Mr President, first of all I want to say to Mrs De Wit that I have always appreciated the way she works and the way she defends her files on the merits, with a keen knowledge of justice. Hats off to you, dear colleague! To return to the proposal, I would like to begin by expressing a regret. The Socialist Group took advantage of this proposal to come back with its request for the total decriminalisation of abortion by reaffirming that abortion is a medical and not a criminal matter. Unfortunately, we have not been followed. An amendment has been tabled and is being tabled again in plenary. On the other hand, with regard to euthanasia, I am pleased that a common solution has been built. The declaration of euthanasia was limited to five years. This period will be extended to a very large extent. It can even be unlimited. However, one very important point should be stressed: the person concerned will be regularly asked to invalidate or confirm his statement. It will certainly help a lot of people. I'm sure of it. We still have a little difficulty. It justifies the tabling of an amendment which I mentioned earlier. In the bill, we provided that, by royal decree, the minister must specify to those who declare their will to euthanasia the terms of the communication. That's a good thing. We have also set a deadline for 2020. But if this royal decree is not taken, not only is communication not organized, but the whole system that we negotiated falls to the water. That was in no way the will of the members of the committee. That is why we have tabled an amendment stating that this royal decree must be adopted by 2020 and that if this is not to happen, it will not mean the end of the whole system that we have negotiated. I hope that each group will be able to adopt this amendment, which is in line with the measures we have negotiated together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u291	Mr President, I too will be brief and not talk about the full legislative proposal. Mrs Onkelinx has already tried it, and we discussed it together earlier. By the way, I would like to say that the good thing about the Committee on Justice was that there could also be substantive discussions. Sometimes it was hard, but such discussions are important. Amendments and adjustments have indeed been made to the legislation before us. That was, first of all, about abortion, where we were not in favour of incorporating the changes in this area, certainly not in such a quick way. However, we have reached an agreement on euthanasia on the basis of the two types of possible declarations. On the one hand there is a registered statement, which is valid for five years today and for which one goes to the town hall. In the future, the person concerned will be able to determine the period of validity of the declaration. That could be for a year, for five years or without a date. On the other hand, there is the statement that is not submitted through the municipality. For this purpose, the period of five years to 10 years shall apply. That period will be maintained. We have been very committed to taking the information with us throughout the euthanasia story. I am part of our municipal services and in people's stories that people are effectively forgetting. Either they fear that the deadline will have expired and they think they should go to the town hall again. One does not always know whether or not they have been filed. That's reality. I know that certain people claim that it is not forgotten, but it turns out that it is. That's why it's important that we get that information. That is why we have said that the royal decision must be taken. For us, too, it had to be clear that it would not be postponed. That is why that date has been set so that this law can be effectively implemented. I have no doubt that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Health, who are today the competent ministers, will be able to take the royal decision fairly quickly. That is what we want and consider important. It is also important that the Royal Decree on information can be taken at the same time as the extension of the measure. Mrs Onkelinx, I understand that you are wondering what will happen if this is not done. By not publishing a law adopted here in the Belgian Official Journal, ministers sometimes dare to prolong the implementation of legislation, which is the same thing. On behalf of my party, I strongly believe that we will do everything we can to ensure that the legislation is implemented effectively and that the information is included. I assume that also Open Vld, who now supplies the Minister for Health, does not intend to do so. I think we all know that and that this is an important fact in the whole of the amendments before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u292	Mr President, we have also introduced an amendment in the sense that we find it preferable to delete the period of validity of the advance declaration as long as the declaration can be withdrawn or amended at any time. Indeed, the advance declaration to request euthanasia is valid only five years, dependent on the patient to renew it, which is impossible for patients who suffer from advanced brain degeneration or who in the meantime suffer from irreversible unconsciousness. By extending the period of validity of the advance declaration from five to ten years, the bill therefore does not address the issue of renewal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u293	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u294	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3515/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3515/10) The title was amended by the Commission in its proposal for a law on various provisions in criminal matters and on services of worship, and amending the law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia and the Social Criminal Code." The title has been amended by the Commission in the form of a bill on various provisions in criminal matters and in matters of worship, and amending the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia and the Social Penal Code." The bill has 200 articles. The bill has 200 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u295	Art. 6 • 85 – Christian Brotcorne (3515/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u296	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u297	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 6, 61, 121 and 200. Reserved: amendments and articles 6, 61, 121 and 200. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5, 7 to 60, 62 to 119 and 122 to 199. Adopted article by article: articles 1 to 5, 7 to 60, 62 to 119 and 122 to 199. ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u298	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sonja Becq, Raf Terwingen, Vincent Van Peteghem, Els Van Hoof, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry, Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u299	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u300	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your Committee on External Relations considered this important proposal at first reading on 27 March. Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, co-author of the text, stressed first of all that the creation of a Federal Institute for Human Rights was aimed at complementing the Belgian landscape of independent organizations for the protection and promotion of human rights. A partial response is also provided to Belgium's international commitments to establish such an institution. The proposal is aimed at the development of such a body in phases. As a first step, a Federal Institute will be established, but it is only in a second step that its scope of action should be extended and thus become inter-federal. In this case, its organisation could be adapted through an expansion of the membership of the Board of Directors. It would then of course be appropriate to recalculate the staffing framework in budgetary terms and to allocate its funding according to the size of the skills to be exercised. The proposal provides for the Institute to have a pluralistic board of directors, the desire being that it be representative of our society. In the event of inter-federalization, the proposed law provides for the creation of a consultation council which would be modelled on the model of the current joint consultation platform, established in 2015 and overlapping the bodies responsible in whole or in part for ensuring respect for human rights in our country. The prerogatives of the Institute, which has general and residual competence, will cover strictly federal matters which are not dealt with by the sectoral bodies mentioned above. With a view to promoting the development of a comprehensive policy on fundamental rights, the Institute will fulfil - through the consultation council referred to above - a role of consultation between sectoral bodies for the protection and promotion of human rights. Finally, the proposal foresees that within six months of its appointment, the Board of Directors will recruit the staff necessary for the effective functioning of the Institute, which illustrates the willingness of the proponents of the proposal to implement it quickly. During the discussion, Minister Didier Reynders first pointed out that the Institute would be solely competent at the federal level but that the aim was that it could also cooperate with the Regions and the Communities. For his part, Minister Koen Geens stressed that it would be necessary to conclude an inter-federal cooperation agreement and acknowledged that the exercise would not be easy. Mr Geens also pointed out that the opinion of the Finance Inspectorate had been given on the text and that it was available to the members of the Committee. For the Socialist Group, Mr Olivier Henry stressed that the defence of human rights, in its many facets, was a priority. He therefore supported the establishment of the National Human Rights Institute as the umbrella for the various independent institutions that existed: Unia, Myria and the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Mr Henry further noted that this point, the establishment of the Institute, was included in the 2014 government agreement, but could not be implemented. He deplored the fact that there was an entire legislature to deal with this issue, and that this Inter-federal Institute could not have been established beforehand. At the same time, he wants to be constructive in making progress on this subject, but he shares some reservations and concerns. First, will the Institute have the human, budgetary and legal resources to carry out its tasks? Mr. Henry then regrets that the Institute focuses only on matters of federal jurisdiction when there is so much to do at all levels of authority. He recalled that Belgium was clearly pointed out on this issue, both by the UN and by the Council of Europe, and stressed that the country was not exemplary. In the face of the various issues of national minorities, the situation in prisons, particularly for people with psychiatric disorders, the policy on reception and access to asylum and the inacceptable confinement of children, an institute that is only competent at the federal level seems insufficient. He also wished to know whether Belgium had not ratified the Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities. Mr. Georges Dallemagne, for the CDH, said that it had been a long time since Belgium had committed itself to setting up a Human Rights Institute, which had to fill the remaining gaps in that area. He asked for concrete examples of how the Institute could intervene. He also wondered. Who was consulted during the preparation of this text? Who will be so when it is implemented? Why have not the Regions and the Communities been involved or not? The honourable Member believes that it is still possible at this first reading to be more ambitious. Finally, it raises an important question. Will this establishment of an institute speed up the ratification of the Framework Convention for the Protection of Minorities by Belgium? For the N-VA, Ms Rita Bellens welcomed the advice of the Finance Inspectorate. She pointed out that, in principle, the N-VA was not opposed to the establishment of a national mechanism for the protection of human rights, which had been included in the Government's declaration. However, she was concerned that, in the long run, federal jurisdiction might be extended to the powers of the Regions and Communities. This creates the possibility for a federal institute to give an opinion on education and housing quality in particular. For my group, I felt that the bill under consideration was very important, that it was coming very late and that it was not perfect but that it had the merit of being there. We will therefore support this proposal. The idea of such institutes appeared long ago in 1946. It was reaffirmed in 1991 in the Paris Principles. By adopting this text, Belgium will become the 24th Member State of the European Union to have such an institute. It's almost too late, but it's not too late. Indeed, our country, despite the sectoral bodies already in existence, despite the Minister's candidacy to the Council of Europe, does not shine on the human rights scene. Some examples illustrate this: the ECHR's condemnations of the detention of children, threats to the freedom to film, police violence, rampant poverty, growing racism and, lastly, the treaty on business and human rights for which a government encouragement would be opportune. In the same vein, I believe that this bill should have been better coordinated with civil society, associations and NGOs active in this field in our territory. Indeed, the cross-cutting dialogue identified as one of the missions of the Institute must begin downstream of its constitution. As far as this role as the Institute's dome is concerned, which, in my view, is absolutely fundamental even if it is only federal, various elements can be deplored: the Institute does not have the legal competence to adequately defend the human rights of individual citizens through a complaint mechanism. Nor does it have jurisdiction to appear before a court of law. It cannot act in the jurisdictions covered by federal sectoral bodies, which is not in line with the cross-cutting nature, yet affirmed in the text, of the missions and the human rights issue. I have had the opportunity to share my concern about whistleblowers because the Institute is in particular empowered to receive whistleblowers' reports, in accordance with the European directive in preparation. Will whistleblowers in this case be protected when information is transmitted to the Institute? Legal certainty must be guaranteed to whistleblowers who address the Institute. Finally, I was able to point out that developments refer to the defence of climate and environmental rights, which are also fundamental rights. For the Open Vld group, Mr Tim Vandenput noted that it was positive, as foreseen in the government agreement, to see this institute set up but that the proposal was not perfect because it concerned only the federal level. He also wondered whether it was still possible to include organizations such as the College of Federal Ombudsmen, the Institute for Gender Equality, the National Commission for the Rights of the Child, Unia and Myria, and the Poverty Alleviation Service. Olivier De Schutter, an expert, had the opportunity to confirm that several experts had assisted the Minister in drafting the text under consideration. He said that the Institute would be responsible for matters that were not dealt with by any institution such as freedom of expression and association, a number of economic, social and cultural rights that had not yet received sufficient attention. Belgium also does not have an independent institution to monitor and comply with our country's international obligations. For example, follow-up to the Periodic Review of the Human Rights Council, the recommendations addressed to Belgium by United Nations bodies, should be carried out. A further advantage of the Institute is, for Mr. De Schutter, the possibility to intervene before the Council of State and the Constitutional Court with a view to taking legal action in the context of the objective dispute, in order to ensure that violations of fundamental rights are found in the normative acts enacted by the legislature and the executive branch. During the discussions, Ms Bellens pointed out that the creation of a new institution was a problem for her. She wondered whether it was necessary to establish a new institute and whether it was not possible to merge a number of existing institutions. It confirmed that the N-VA Group supported the idea of defending the principles of Paris, but it could not accept that an institute should be entitled to take legal action. Finally, during the discussions and the voting on the articles, various amendments were tabled, discussed and adopted or rejected. I will focus on the main issues at the first and second readings. First of all, Mr Henry tabled a first amendment to replace the title of the proposal: "human rights" is therefore replaced by "human rights", which was important. This amendment was adopted by 8 votes with 1 abstention. At the first reading, concerning the missions of the Institute, I tabled an amendment No 7 to protect whistleblowers who would address the Institute. Minister Reynders confirmed that the wording of the text was as broad as possible and that it provided that all persons would be heard, including whistleblowers. It was therefore superfluous to return to that point. At the second reading of the text in committee on 12 April 2019, various amendments were tabled and adopted. In Article 3, which describes the purpose of the Institute, I tabled an amendment No. 14 stressing that within the purpose of the Institute, the dynamics of dialogue and cooperation between the Institute, federal and federated bodies and NGOs and civil society organizations should be foreseen, and that such coordination should be regularly evaluated. The amendment was adopted by 9 votes to 3. At the level of the missions of the Institute, as specified in Article 5, a similar amendment, incorporating collaboration with other sectoral organizations into the missions, was also adopted by 9 votes to 3. One of the most important amendments we have made concerns Article 6. I have tabled Amendment No 13 and Amendment No 24, which are designed to ensure that the Institute can not only be present before the Council of State and the Constitutional Court, but also before any court, in accordance with Article 17 of the Judicial Code which we have recently adopted. From the moment that, in accordance with article 17 of the Judicial Code, the Institute acts for the defence of the collective interest and not for the defence of an individual interest, it could be recognized that jurisdiction without necessarily having to be accompanied by a competence to deal with individual complaints. This amendment was also adopted. I have tabled an amendment to Article 20 to clarify that the Institute should have sufficient resources to carry out its tasks as soon as it is set up, regardless of the possible pooling of services and infrastructure between the Institute and the sectoral protection bodies, namely Myria, Unia and the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. This opinion followed a comment from the Finance Inspectorate. The amendment was adopted by 5 votes to 3, which is to be welcomed. Mr Dallemagne tabled an amendment No. 21 to grant Unia the competence to deal with discrimination on the basis of language because, during the discussion at first reading, the question of the Institute's competence to deal with language discrimination had not been clearly decided. Such jurisdiction could have been conferred on the Institute, provided that the Institute could deal with individual complaints. Since this possibility was not given to him in the context of the proposal, Amendment No 21 proposed granting this competence to Unia. For the PS, Ms Lalieux pointed out that it is not yet known which institution is competent to deal with discrimination on the basis of language. Minister Koen Geens said he would not support the two amendments because we cannot change the mission of Unia without amending a cooperation agreement, which implies an agreement with the federated entities. However, it recalled that with regard to discrimination on the basis of language, existing instruments and remedies could be used. The Act of 10 May 2007 to combat certain forms of discrimination or the general regulation on civil liability can thus be invoked in courts and tribunals. Mr. Dallemagne once again deplored the fact that the Institute could not receive individual complaints. The amendment was finally rejected by 8 votes to 4. I conclude by addressing section 22. In this article, I have tabled Amendment No. 19, which provides that the payment of the Institute's allocation shall be made no later than five months after the entry into force of this Act. This will be done in time to enable the Institute to carry out its missions without delay. The amendment was adopted by 9 votes to 3. The whole proposal as amended was adopted by 9 votes to 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u301	Thank you, Mrs Waterschoot, for this comprehensive report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u302	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to this legislative proposal, it is claimed that there is a choice between more or less protection of human rights. That's bullshit, of course. Voices for or against the bill is actually a choice between a proliferation of institutions or streamlining a number of institutions, between posts and efficiency. A new institute will soon be set up at the end of the year, with a cost of almost 600 000 euros for next year and twelve additional executive seats. What a missed opportunity! Former Secretary of State Demir has proposed in the government that the existing Federal Institute for Equality between Women and Men should be empowered so that it could complete the federal human rights mechanism. This is a choice for fewer institutions and more powers and an exercise in efficiency and transparency. With this proposal, the outgoing government opts for an easy-to-use solution, with only a little extra being created without reforming the existing mess with a surplus of institutions and councils. Anyone who claims that the N-VA is against human rights and wants to stop the national mechanism is grossly wrong. The line we have always maintained is that of investing in solutions, but not in new structures. Not only is the proposal budgetaryly and organizationally uninteresting, it also makes it extremely unclear to the citizen, who will no longer know where he can go. Moreover, in the absence of an overarching system, it is unclear what the hierarchy of standards is. In the case of one institution, one could consider internally the importance of another, for example when religious rights are opposed to women's rights, and to which rights are most important. That is not being made clear at the moment. It will only lead to discussions. And what if the different institutions collide? What if Unia collides with the new institute, colleagues? That will only create additional legal gaps. With the rush, you've given yourself a pricey election gift. Our group remains convinced that the creation of the Federal Institute will do more harm than good to respect for human rights in our country. It's absolutely no improvement. That is why our vote is a clear no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u303	Mr President, since 2010, we have been advocating for the establishment of an independent federal institution for the promotion and protection of human rights. This institution, which must comply with the Paris Principles, responds to the recommendations addressed to Belgium by the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in January 2008. The Committee was already concerned that there were no independent national human rights institutions in Belgium. This recommendation was subsequently reformulated by the United Nations Committee against Torture in its concluding observations submitted to Belgium in November 2008, as well as in its recent universal periodic reviews. I am therefore pleased to see the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights emerge from the ground, at least on paper. Its tasks could have been further clarified, which is why I am tabling several amendments, but I am pleased to see that the Institute is given the power to give advice to the government, at its request or on its own initiative, or to monitor the implementation by the authorities of their international obligations. However, this text is still insufficient, in that, contrary to the statement of reasons, the Institute, as currently envisaged, does not guarantee full coverage of fundamental rights. The proposed law is indeed a source of legal uncertainty with regard to language discrimination. I'll explain it to myself. The Institute is an institution of existing sectoral human rights protection and promotion bodies. For the remainder, it will be able to take over fundamental rights that are not taken over by these bodies. The explanatory memorandum thus cites economic, social and cultural rights, freedom of assembly and association, freedom of conscience and religion, freedom of expression, but not linguistic freedom. However, this freedom is enshrined in article 30 of our Constitution. In addition, Unia is competent to know all types of discrimination, except that based on language. Discrimination among discriminations, which the Commission d'évaluation de la législation fédérale relative à la lutte contre les discriminations, mandated by Mrs Elke Sleurs and chaired by Mrs Françoise Tulkens, pointed out. We are therefore defending, as this committee is calling for, the extension of Unia's powers to include discrimination based on language. This is the only way to provide victims with a real care mechanism. You will no doubt answer that a cooperation agreement will provide for the inter-federal nature of the Institute and therefore the questions relating to regional and Community competences. But who believes in the feasibility of this cooperation agreement for a moment? In committee, the initiatives referred to by Minister Reynders to promote the conclusion of such an agreement have never been specified. As pointed out in 2007, Mr Olivier de Schutter, Belgian expert to the European Network of Legal Experts on Non-Discrimination, the Belgian federal structure complicates the implementation processes of international instruments. The conclusion of this cooperation agreement is all the more uncertain as it depends on the agreement of all the federated entities. However, in order to take up the N-VA's statements in committee, the agreement will necessarily be blocked if this party is re-elected to the Flemish government. The N-VA does not recognize the Institute's ability to be a litigator and refuses to recognize its expertise in matters that it does not consider necessary. Of course, the N-VA has never specified the most necessary materials. It may be necessary to remind him that it is not only French-speaking people in Flanders who are victims of linguistic discrimination, but also German- and Dutch-speaking people in Brussels, as well as all minorities. As a reminder, Unia receives more than 135 reports a year and her frustration is great that she cannot deal with them. You will reply that the Institute is also competent for rights not covered by independent sectoral bodies such as Unia. Nor is this reasoning consistent with the fact that these rights will not be protected by a complaint mechanism or an opportunity to appear in court. We are therefore once again far from the transversal nature of human rights as promised in the explanatory memorandum and, above all, as required by the United Nations. We are also far from the scope of specific and clearly stated competences in a legislative text, as requested by the United Nations in the Paris Principles. I therefore table amendments which will give useful force to this new Federal Institute for Human Rights. Otherwise, my group will refrain from denouncing a text that does not allow all human rights and those who would be deprived of them to be taken into account. However, we should all pursue this goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u304	Mr President, I would like to express my particular appreciation that we were able to adopt this proposal in the Committee on External Relations before the end of the legislature. I am very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u305	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u306	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3670/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3670/10) Het opschrift in het Frans werd door de commissie gewijzigd in 的proposal of a law establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights". The title in French has been amended by the commission in the proposal for a law establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights." The bill has 22 articles. The bill has 22 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u307	• 25 – Olivier Maingain cs (3670/11)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u308	• 30 • Olivier Maingain cs (3670/11) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u309	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 5, 6 and 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u310	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 4, 7 and 9 to 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u311	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u312	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u313	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3660/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3660/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u314	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u315	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs An Capoen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u316	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3663/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3663/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u317	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u318	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3492: Steven Vandeput, Conseil Degroote - 2115: Conseil Degroote, Christoph D'Haese, Koen Metsu, Brecht Vermeulen - 2324: Nawal Ben Hamou, Laurette Onkelinx, Eric Thiébaut 2355: Alain Top.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u319	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Katja Gabriels, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u320	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3492/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3492/04) The bill has 21 articles. The bill has 21 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-24-54-plenair-ip282x.u321	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. Colleagues, as usual at long meetings, we are bound by technical constraints and will now suspend for 20 minutes. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, April 24, 2019 at 7:20 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 April 2019 at 7.20 p.m.
