ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u1	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, with a few minutes' delay, we can begin our work. The next item is an exchange of views with the Minister responsible for migration on the results of the administrative inquiry in connection with the issue of humanitarian visas, as we have already had a number of exchanges of views and hearings in committee. I have heard that the report is not yet ready or is not yet available, but you will explain it yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u2	Mr President, because there are quite a few figures, the report was issued to a messenger to be copied and delivered to the Members of Parliament. It is a note given to us by the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u3	I now give you the floor, Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of this Committee of Parliament, following the reports on the possible misuse of humanitarian visas, I immediately asked my administrative services if an administrative inquiry could be carried out. Apart from that, there is, of course, a judicial investigation that is ongoing and that we are giving all the space. That research is about possible corruption and exploitation of vulnerable persons. It is, of course, the duty of the court to dig that out, and that is not the subject of today's investigation. The investigation I have asked is not only about the lists where there is a suspicion of corruption, but all the lists issued by my predecessor's cabinet. I am surprised to note that a whole new migration system was set up here, directly with the cabinet. A system that would have caused serious problems in one case if we were to believe the images. The question that should interest me in policy is how that system worked. It was a new system. What guarantees were built in or not, and what happened to them? The new thing here is that humanitarian visas were not issued on an individual basis, but that collective work was carried out on the basis of lists issued. Compare with the past practices of collective regulation which I believe have not been used in this country for some time. In the case of visas, collective work was carried out. The question arises as to why this was done. This system could lead to problems because we are talking about intermediaries who did not always check who was granted a visa or not. That investigation is complete. The services have been working on this investigation for a few hours. That's why I couldn't deliver that report sooner. It's like it's been a whole puzzle. I would like to go over the most important findings with you, but first I would like to make a number of preliminary remarks. First of all, the investigation didn't turn out to be easy. It took a great deal of time and effort from the various services involved. It turned out to be a difficult task to find all the lists passed on to the services through various channels with a view to issuing a humanitarian visa. This was about lists sent by e-mail from a cabinet that has since ceased to exist. Of course, that didn't help the investigation. The lists themselves were also often unclear. From some lists it is clear which organized operation they belong to, from other lists that is not clear at all. They bear the name of the list, as it was delivered to the Foreign Office by my predecessor's cabinet. At the last moment people were also often added or removed. Moreover, these lists were often also found to contain missing or wrong data, which did not simplify the search work. Especially in 2017 and 2018, the lists were less accurate than in 2016 and 2015. So I cannot tell you with certainty today whether all the cases have been recovered. Of course, all visas issued by the Belgian authorities can be found somewhere, but the new system worked via simple e-mails, with lists that also changed. There have been dozens of such e-mails recovered from the Foreign Affairs Office, but also from other services. Did we find them all? That is the question, and I cannot honestly say that with certainty, because there was no systematic follow-up, which I can only regret with you. I come to the second point. The administrative investigation covers all humanitarian visas issued and requested since 2015. This investigation is therefore much broader than the ongoing judicial investigation into Melikan Kucam. The latter played a significant role in transmitting more than 300 names. But he was certainly not the only one to provide lists through the firm. This administrative investigation does not rule on communications relating to possible abuses, or even acts of corruption and trafficking in human beings. It is up to Justice to clarify things. As you know, we have taken civil action in this investigation in order to be involved and to continue to be informed of its progress. My services also cooperate fully with Justice. It is also good to clarify the different procedures that allow vulnerable people who may need international protection to come to Belgium legally. This can be done both through resettlement or resettlement, through relocation and through an individual application for a humanitarian visa. In the case of resettlement, it has been determined in advance, first by UNHCR and later by the Commissioner-General, that an international protection status may be granted to the proposed persons. On the basis of UNHCR's dossier, the security analyses and the hearing of the Commissioner-General, the Commissioner-General draws up an opinion for selection for the Minister or Secretary of State, who then instructs the Foreign Affairs Office to issue a humanitarian visa, so that the selected refugees can travel to Belgium. Of course, the possibilities of selection before anyone is admitted to the territory are more extensive in the case of resettlement, because a comprehensive examination is first carried out before a visa is issued. Unrighteous applications, problems of public order, grounds for exclusion or radicalism can thus be filtered out in advance. Those people don't get into our territory because of it. In the case of relocation, applicants for asylum shall not be transferred from one Member State to another and the examination of the application for asylum shall be initiated only after transfer. Since this is an intra-European movement, no visa is issued for these persons but only a travel document. It is important to note that, in both cases, the persons concerned must undergo an asylum procedure after arrival in Belgium. Since in the case of resettlement, the Commissioner-General already determines in advance whether the proposed persons can be granted an international protection status, an accelerated asylum procedure is applied upon arrival. A specific collection path is also drawn up for re-established persons. Finally, there are humanitarian visas based on an individual application. A humanitarian visa may be requested by persons who do not fall within the categories of persons who, under the Aliens Act, have the possibility to apply for a visa. This may include, for example, an applicant for family reunification who does not meet the strict requirements of the family reunification procedure, a person who has to undergo urgent medical intervention or a person who is in another situation which is always urgent. This type of visa is requested through a Belgian embassy or consulate and the issuance of a visa to such persons is the discretionary power of the Minister. In principle, this decision is made by the Office of Foreigners. In this context, account shall first be taken of the case-law as set out in the judgments of the Council of the Litigation of Foreigners and Article 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In addition to law and jurisprudence, there are still a number of other criteria that are applied by the Foreign Office in the examination of applications, such as the existence of a link with our country or the possession of a passport.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u5	Each application is unique. It is based on the applicant's personal situation and is therefore also examined individually. If the Foreign Affairs Office considers that the individual situation does not justify granting the application to stay in Belgium for more than three months, the Service shall explain why, by motivating its decision in law and in fact. However, the humanitarian visas concerned have not followed that path. The research I have asked for is therefore about a completely new system, in which visas were given collectively and on the basis of the lists. That was the exceptional thing about the system. My predecessor's cabinet delivered lists of names to the Foreign Office. The administration was not aware of the selection procedure. There was also no documented dossier that had to be analysed. The instruction only had to be carried out in practice. There are two major differences with the usual procedures, which I have just discussed. Firstly, the persons concerned were not registered when they arrived in Belgium. They were free to apply for international protection in Belgium or not. You will see in the figures that some of them did not. Moreover, it is not clear whether and what criteria were used and how the selection of persons was made by the Cabinet and by the intermediaries, as opposed to normal procedures such as resettlement or individual application. These differences raise a lot of questions, including my own. A government must be consistent and transparent in all its decisions. This is crucial in order to ensure equal treatment. The use of an unpublished procedure has made it vulnerable to possible abuse and also to the possible unequal treatment of vulnerable persons. It is true that this unusual procedure may have been necessary in 2015 to save people from Aleppo, because there were little or no other possibilities at the time. The question can rightly be asked as to whether this also applies to visas issued much later. In need, not all procedures can be followed, but the investigation reveals that there was much less need and urgency in the later lists and that they also had fewer details and fewer checks had been carried out. So there is a big difference between the situation in Aleppo and what happened afterwards. It is clear to me, on the basis of the figures, that the system has gradually been derailed and that the abuses that have come to light are an inevitable consequence. I'm getting the numbers. As already mentioned, it was a great work to find all the pieces of the puzzle. Not all e-mails were recovered from the Foreign Office. Some lists we have to look up from other services, especially at OCAD for the 2016 and 2017 data and at Foreign Affairs for that of the first group from Aleppo in 2015. In the end, 1 502 names of people who have applied for a humanitarian visa through the special cabinet procedure have been found through various channels. Of those 1 502 people, 1 150 have applied for asylum. Most of them have been granted asylum or are still being investigated. Ten people asked for asylum but did not get it, and this for various reasons. Of 121 people who received their visas, we do not know where they are. They have not initiated any other procedure. There is no immediate reason to believe that they did not come to Belgium, but we are not sure whether they are here or where they are now. Since then, every trace of these people has been missing. We only know that these 121 people have not applied for asylum in our country. They may have travelled through, or some have travelled through, but only for two files Belgium was asked for a Dublin takeover by another country, in this case Germany and the Netherlands, we know nothing about the others. In the category "other" there are also a number of people who received an A card, but also 3 people who were ordered to leave the territory. These are the general figures, but within the groups we see marked differences. From the group brought here via Operation Aleppo, everyone was asked and got asylum. Everyone from the Allepo group who applied for a visa asked for and also got asylum. That percentage is remarkably lower among the people who came here through the Kucam list. Less than half of them received international protection, 43 percent. 78 people did not receive a visa because they somehow did not come to collect it. That percentage is, of course, much higher than for the other groups. Also in the Dibo group we see that only 51 out of 72 names applied for asylum and received asylum. No visa was issued to 17 persons, and we do not know anything about 4 persons who did receive a visa. For people who have applied for a visa through other intermediaries or organisations, the recognition rates are in the same line, i.e. between 90 % and 100 %. In general we can say that we know less about the later groups than about the first groups, while the urgency of the first group, the Aleppo group, was of course the highest. That is striking, because it would be more important for that first group, given the urgent humanitarian circumstances, that there might not have been enough time or opportunity to make everything go completely by the book. Of the first Aleppo group there are zero persons in the category "not registered"; of the Kucam group we know that one in three, or 107 people, did get a visa, but for the rest we do not know where those people are. For the Aleppo group we have far-reaching details about the profile and the family composition, for the later lists this is much less the case. According to the data recovered from the Foreign Affairs Office, about one third of all files did not know nationality at the time of the instruction of the Cabinet. In the Kucam group there were even nine people whose date of birth has so far been impossible to find. What decisions can be taken from the figures of this administrative inquiry? Firstly, the humanitarian visa system in general has grown exponentially in recent years, from a constant figure of around 200 people in the years 2011 to 2014 to more than 2 000 in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u6	Président: Brecht Vermeulen. It has become almost a separate and new migration channel. That was never meant to happen. As far as I'm concerned, it has to be exceptional. For the first operations in 2015 and 2016, the use of this exceptional procedure was certainly justified. There may have been no or few alternatives to help the people of Aleppo. However, it is clear that the system continued to be used afterwards and that the use has even increased. In the meantime, we know that there were alternatives at the time, including the use of the United Nations. Secondly, the application for humanitarian visas via intermediaries, organisations and the cabinet was rather unstructured and often chaotic. That made it very difficult to find all those involved. There is a great deal of uncertainty about the criteria used and how people were selected. This made the procedure vulnerable and also increased the risk of possible abuse. In addition, much too little attention was paid to the follow-up of these persons. A total of 179 visas were not issued. Of 121 people who did receive a visa, we do not know what they have done with it. In this case, therefore, we cannot say with certainty that all the persons concerned were actually in a very vulnerable situation and/or were eligible for international protection. For about a dozen people, the asylum application was even refused. For all these reasons, the use of this procedure cannot be repeated. It is better to carry out such operations only through reliable organisations and, if possible, only through the UN Refugee Organisation. There must be sufficient expertise and there must also be internal procedures to prevent abuses. For me, therefore, the procedure of resolution is the normal procedure. In high need, as in 2015 in Aleppo, there may be a derogation, provided there are sufficient guarantees. I repeat that I assume that this operation in Aleppo, which had been tested within the government, also offered guarantees. After that, this was much less the case. In a single case, according to the services, indications of grounds for exclusion have also emerged. These may include reasons for national security or involvement in the conflict. In case of a proper procedure, with prior screening, these would have already been filtered out. Whether we can still do this, and therefore we can still bring those people back, we can wait. This transparency could and should be greater for all humanitarian visas. I will ask the Foreign Office to report annually on the number of humanitarian visas issued. Large fluctuations could thus be highlighted more easily to enable Parliament, in particular, to better exercise its oversight role and to ask questions on this matter to the competent minister or secretary of state. Then I come back to the question of whether this system is, by definition, susceptible to fraud. The fact that intermediaries who do not undergo screening on the cabinet are allowed to issue lists from whom a visa is to be issued without prior examination by the services is a bit of a question. If one remembers that a visa is worth more in certain countries than winning the Lotto, Belgium is one of the countries, then I think that system is also doomed to cause problems. These problems have already been identified. The judicial investigation must show the consequences of these problems. It's obvious to us. This was a system with little or much control, in which the follow-up of the people who came here with humanitarian visas has not happened either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u7	I shall then give the floor to the members of the committee, first to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and then to Mr Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u8	Minister, thank you for coming to present the report within the time frame within which you committed to do so. Even if it's relatively complete, I still have a few questions. Forgive me if I put one or the other relative to the beginning of your speech. I missed it because of traffic problems. First of all, I would like to reiterate that the Socialist Group does not at any time call the humanitarian visa procedure into question. But as it works today, the system, to use your expression, can derail, even if I think it has mostly derailed in the non-control by the Secretary of State. You've had the skill and others have had it before you. What we are discovering today, it has never been discussed before. I believe that the questions on humanitarian visas have not been missed in this committee, on the part of many colleagues. We have often been nicely removed from the answer, but proof is, in what you say, that there is indeed something to worry about. You answered a lot of questions I had prepared. I'm not going back. But in the previous hearings, when the Foreign Office or others were interviewed, they all confirmed to us that a security screening had been carried out on the people. But I hear what you're saying. You're telling us we didn't find all the documents. This means that there was no official way or procedure that was followed, even if it was not traditional. There was nothing formal about how the lists arrived and were screened. What certainties do we have? I think we don't have one, but maybe you'll give us more details. While we are told that we were not sure of the nationality of some or that we sometimes did not have a date of birth, how could we make a simple security screening? It still seems to me basic elements. Perhaps meagre but still essential to be able to know the potential danger of these people. I also discover that a whole series of people have disappeared in nature, whether they have had visas or not. My question is to you today: are any steps being taken to try to find them? Because these people, if there is no screening, may be people who are dangerous to public safety. It is well known that some of us in this House are rightly attentive to it. It is very comical to note that those who were most attentive to it, and who acted and sometimes spoke extremely disturbingly about the refugees and their dangerousness, did not have much concern when it came to bringing people on lists of their friends. What has been put in place to find these people? Either they are dangerous people who have not been screened, or they are three victims: victims of war, victims of smugglers and perhaps now victims of human trafficking networks. We don't seem to know where some of these people are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u9	Madam Minister, I would like to congratulate you on this report. This is a clear, clear and stinging report on how the N-VA and the Secretary of State handled this matter. Your words are particularly strong. You spoke of a new channel of migration, of visas issued on a collective basis when this had never been the case, of a chaotic system which, from the outset, had in itself the seeds of the abuses that were found. You also said that it was a totally aberrant system in 2017 and 2018 in relation to the situation. As much as we could accept the operation that had taken place in Aleppo, so much the way things had happened afterwards was totally inexcusable, indefensible and certainly totally illegal with regard to our governance rules. You also recalled that beyond everything we know about this system today, it has been able to leave out vulnerable people for the benefit of people who have the means to pay for it. People have disappeared in the wild. We don't know where they are. There is a security problem that was raised by the Secretary of State, who himself was a singer of firmness in the matter of migration. It is he who today causes security problems to our country, since he brought in through what you called a migration channel, people that we cannot locate today. In addition, these individuals were not screened or compared to the Kingdom database, the BNG. They were screened by the Office of Foreigners but not on the basis of the BNG. So there is a double security problem that has been posed by the way the Secretary of State behaved. We also know that people have not even been seeking their visas. I would have liked to know the explanation of this fact because it is quite surprising. We can see that there are extremely serious problems which, if the Secretary of State had still been in office today, would obviously have led to his resignation or, even beyond his resignation, to an extremely serious crisis within the government. Once again, I wanted to congratulate you because we finally have clear words that are put on absolutely scandalous situations in relation to what can be described as trafficking in human beings, extortion of funds and also an attack on the security of the country, even though there was every reason to worry about a humanitarian situation in order to grant visas to people who were particularly vulnerable. This was also done at the expense of those people who were vulnerable, who were waiting and still waiting for some to issue visas today. My questions are simple, minister. What about these security issues? How are they being investigated today? What about those visas that were requested but were ultimately not granted? What follow-up do you intend to make to this survey that you have carried out? You said you went to court. I understand it perfectly. Will this data be used to inform the ongoing judicial investigation? Will we possibly have additional information on the elements that are not yet very clear? Finally, Madam Minister, you said you had a lot of trouble collecting some data. You had to call on the OCAM, the Foreign Office and the Foreign Office. Does that mean that you have had trouble getting the information that Francken should have given you spontaneously? You seem to say that, on this side, there may have been the retention of information, non-cooperation and non-will to give all the information. Is that how you insisted on the fact that it had been very difficult to collect certain information?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I too would like to thank you for this research report. It is a very comprehensive report that we will go through in more detail later. I'm afraid your research report is more extensive than anything Theo Francken ever put on paper on humanitarian visas. You are sketching a disenchanting picture of the Francken system, a system characterized by arbitrary, clientelism, us-know-us, in which he, as a kind of wild benefactor, as a kind of savior, issued humanitarian visas, without it being really verifiable, so really without this being justified in a democratic country. You went to the trouble of carrying out that investigation. You yourself say that you have encountered a number of difficulties in order to be able to see in detail what actually happened there. If you say that this was a particularly fraud-sensitive procedure set up by Theo Francken, then we can only conclude that the corruption was not an accident, but was inherently embedded in the system that Theo Francken constructed. I have a number of questions for you, and you say that cooperation with, for example, an organisation like the UN has certainly been much more obvious in recent years. We had a hearing here yesterday with Mr Karim Van Overmeire and Mr Konstantin Al Chammas, which showed that people from Kamishli were brought here through these filières. At that time, I pointed out that the UN Refugee Organisation had an office in Kamishli since 2015. They were therefore effectively present there and there was no reason to set up such a filière. Especially in recent years, there has been a great deal of opportunity to cooperate with the UN. My first question to you is whether, during the administrative investigation, you were struck by a number of agreements, issues on paper, protocol agreements. In your list you are talking about Melikan Kucam, but also about a number of other groups. Did you somehow clash with agreements, things that should have been given a more objective character? Secondly, on the role of the cabinet. If I understand correctly, the Francken cabinet has worked on the basis of blind confidence, they have never asked for guarantees and there has never been any control over vulnerability. This care, which one might expect from a government policy, was completely lacking. That is a particularly sharp conclusion that is contained in the investigation report. Have you ever seen critical questions from the cabinet to the various intermediaries in the mail traffic you visited with the Francken cabinet? For example, those who wanted to wrist about the degree of vulnerability of the people who have acted on the lists? Was there ever an alarm signal from the Francken cabinet at some point in all these years, a question of: are we doing well here or not? I will not forget yesterday with Mr Van Overmeire. When from this room it was the same room, I thought to him the question was asked whether of the list he had handed over to Mr Francken's cabinet, he was sure they were vulnerable people, he replied: "Was it vulnerable people? I should hope so." That was Mr Van Overmeire's answer. I said that after Mr Van Overmeire, no other control of vulnerability has taken place throughout the decision-making chain, either by the cabinet or by the Commissioner-General or by DVZ. Mr Van Overmeire's hope that everything happened correctly was the only thing that policy had to do. On that basis, the humanitarian visas were distributed. That was the Theo Francken system. This carousel must be effectively examined to the bone. I hope you're not gonna let it go and move on. You say you haven't found a few things yet. I hope that search continues. Mr Francken himself admitted that he had been informed of possible rumours about fraud with Melikan Kucam in October and December. Have you found any trace of this in the mail traffic? Any trace of possible fraud, rumors, suspicions, and any steps taken by the cabinet? For the time being, all we know is that Mr Francken said to the people themselves that they had to file a complaint. He has not carried out any administrative investigations as you have now, nor has he gone to the police or the court. Do you think, on the basis of the investigation, that the Commissioner-General should be given a greater role, including in the case of humanitarian visas? Perhaps also in the case of collective humanitarian visas, unless you now say that you want to stop it completely. Should and can the Foreign Office play a greater role in the procedure? Have they responded to this report yet? What's their reaction? Are they ready? Do they have an offer? Will they cooperate in the new procedure that you or your successor intend to set up in the next government on humanitarian visas? I come to the lack of follow-up. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite remarkable that the Secretary of State, who always wants to be so strict and so careful, has set up a system in which no follow-up or control has been possible on the people who have arrived here in Belgium. Through his partymate Melikan Kucam, people have applied for asylum here. We do not know where they are at the moment, which is a bitter observation to make, from one human in three people who have been entered by Melikan Kucam in Belgium. So, Mr President, I would also like to ask you and ask Mr Francken to ask again for a hearing on the basis of this report, so that we can ask him the necessary questions on the basis of the report. We did not have that report at the time of his hearing. We must confront him with the results of the investigation report. Madam Minister, I would like to return to the debate on humanitarian visas and on what the future should bring us. How do we proceed with this? You know our position. Together with a number of other groups, we have tabled a legislative proposal to reform the system of humanitarian visas, so that such abuse will be definitively impossible in the future. We have four pillars. That is, first of all, the maintenance of discretionary power. It cannot be the intention of anyone who is in a vulnerable situation to have an automatic right to a humanitarian visa. A yes-no balance by the Minister must therefore still be possible. However, very clear criteria on vulnerability need to be incorporated into the law, so that the Minister at least knows on what basis he or she has to weigh up. Furthermore, we must make it clear that cooperation with the United Nations or with a number of other recognised organisations is necessary, but not through individual intermediaries................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ [[the sound of the microphone goes out for a moment]] Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for the work they have done on this subject. Finally, the fourth pillar of reform is much more parliamentary control or control tout court. After all, a system has been set up here that is uncontrollable. [[The sound of the microphone is falling out again.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u11	We shall resume our work and I shall give the floor to Mrs Gabriels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive explanation. Indeed, the investigation shows what became clear during the hearings of the past few weeks, namely that in recent years a separate system of humanitarian visas had been created on the Francken cabinet, a system which had become an opaque and totally untransparent system that has led to arbitrariness, with no criteria, let alone objective criteria, and in which DVZ apparently had no role to play. Of course we can't do that, even for us. The fact that or not payments have been made and to whom humanitarian visas have been obtained is indeed not part of your administrative inquiry and will only be subject to judicial review. However, it is clear that the system had to be stopped immediately and it is therefore good that you immediately stopped doing so. Lists without control, without criteria, and collective granting of humanitarian visas, without the possibility of examining applications on a case-by-case basis, are, of course, totally incorrect. Mails of cabinet employees, not signed by the competent Secretary of State or anyone else, forward lists of names to which, according to your information, completely wrong information is communicated, that is not possible. In a rule of law, there are described procedures to be followed. We have had a short time to look through the file you have just distributed. We read there literally, on page four, I think, the following: "There was no selection method and there was no documented file. The instruction only had to be carried out in practice." I find that hard to say, and it's offensive. The government must be transparent in all its decisions and objectively in its judgment, no more and no less. The investigation thus makes it clear that the procedure followed by the Francken cabinet is far from satisfactory. There is also no doubt that in the last two or three years there has been a totally different treatment of visa applications submitted through the Cabinet in respect of the normal route or route of resolution. You yourself also used the words discrimination and arbitrariness and spoke of the lack of control and follow-up. So that's not a pretty picture. Such a way of working clearly does not fall within the general philosophy which the government wanted to apply in the context of migration policy under the heading "strong but just', words which I absolutely cannot find in the new procedure. The rescue operation from Aleppo in 2015 was indeed the start shot. As you said, that operation was well prepared and went with the support of the entire government. It is clear that the system then got out of hand and took a thoroughly wrong turn. There was not only arbitrary but also discrimination along the cabinet road, if I may put it that way. So there was a great deal of delay in the procedure. So until today we still do not know how the lists were compiled, how a dossier was compiled and how the various persons were examined. The cabinet did not use a similar assessment as DVZ and we do not therefore know whether financial and ineffective dependence was taken into account, the precarious situation in the country of origin and the financial resources of the applicant in Belgium. It is therefore clear that the principles of good administration, such as the obligation to state reasons and the principle of care, were not respected. The fact that people without any investigation into urgent humanitarian or medical conditions, i.e. their vulnerability, have apparently ended up on lists and have obtained a visa through the Cabinet, indicates that this was an unacceptable system. We are waiting for what is ahead in Parliament. The various legislative proposals that have been tabled will hopefully contribute in the future to making this system impossible and allowing for greater transparency and control by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for the report. You didn't disappoint me. As far as the answers to parliamentary questions are concerned, you have never done so: you have always given me very detailed answers very quickly, which unfortunately I cannot say from most ministers. However, the problem becomes clear when a minister does not allow himself to be controlled by Parliament and is not controlled by Parliament. A lot of questions were asked here about humanitarian visas, but your predecessor gave little answers. Personally, I find it particularly worrying that in a democracy one can put an image in the media that is completely false, that is built up, that is constructed. An image in which one claims to have rescued people from the claws of IS, while that turns out not to be right. An image in which people claim that those concerned have all applied for and received asylum, and that is not true either. On the contrary, even 121 people have disappeared in nature. I find that disturbing, because it shows how one can manipulate information in a democracy. It is always about information being resold, which is delivered to the media, with tax money being paid EUR 72 million to the political parties. They provide information and then they are seen in the media, at least in some newspapers, there are quite a few journalists here, and I am also addressing them that every time a picture of Mr Francken is being hung that is not in line with reality. How often have I seen on the first page of a particular newspaper Mr Francken's hurrays about criminal illegals? How often have I seen on the first page of the same newspaper Mr Francken's hurrays about the special flights? And this is always without the slightest explanation of Mr Francken's real figures. This creates a completely fictional picture of Theo Francken, which keeps all the doors of the Belgian and even the European borders closed, and which everyone expels, while in reality only 20% of Mr Francken's orders to leave the territory were actually carried out. So there is an image of the righteous Mr. Francken, who is going to save Christians; an image of the tough Theo, superman Theo, while the story of "saving from the claws of IS" does not correspond to reality either. I regret that in my parliamentary years I saw so little, not to say almost never, the real figures on asylum and migration published in the media. Very often I saw Mr Francken's hurrays, but I rarely saw the real figures. When Mrs Wouters and I looked up the figures and published on knack.be, it appeared that our country was among the worst pupils in Europe in all respects. So the reality does not correspond at all to the image that has been displayed for years. I find that particularly disturbing in a democracy. It is a minister who decides to what extent he is accountable and vulnerable. After all, anyone who acts like Mr Francken, by not giving an explanation, is not being audited. Let me make the comparison with Minister De Block, to whom Mrs Wouters and I have asked very specific questions about RIZIV numbers, which were always answered clearly. On the basis of these clear answers, we have sometimes criticised them. However, Madam Secretary, you were prepared, as you should, to give answers. However, those who do not give answers as Secretary of State or Minister can behave in such a way that they are not controlled by anyone and can therefore simply do their own thing. Then suddenly they get that surreal report. One really does not need to have won the Nobel Prize for Statistics to see that there is a problem in the Melikan group. That's gonna jump out. There's a big problem there. What a difference, by the way, between the Minister's report today and the hearing on 13 February. Then I heard a confident Theo Francken talking about a nine-step watertight procedure. I have all nine of them in my note. Now, however, it appears that this procedure was not so waterproof. There was actually no follow-up. The fact that they had all asked for asylum and got it doesn't seem to be right either. For democracy, I find that very worrying, because that means that our institutions are failing. Parliament is failing and the so-called fourth power, the media, is failing too. That's basically what I'm talking about. So one wonders who actually controls who in Belgium. That is a question that I am beginning to ask myself more and more. Colleagues, you should also know that if the government had not fallen, we would never have gotten this report. Mr Francken would then have gone to the elections as super Theo who had everything in order, strict but just. Now, instead of being strict but just, he appears to be more sloppy and negligent. That's more the image that the report now shows. I also listened to the people from Aalst yesterday. What were the criteria there? So they just didn't find out. The reality is that in the Aalwestern region, family reunification has simply been carried out through humanitarian visas. That's the reality there. This had little to do with vulnerability and the issues that have been said about it before. The contrast between the meeting on 13 February and today's report is therefore very strong. I therefore have a number of questions. During one of the meetings, with the diplomats and Ambassador Parmentier, there was an e-mail that I could not get hold of. However, I started hanging on his pants like a pit bull until I got my hands on it anyway. In that mail of 14 September 2018 from a cabinet employee of Theo Francken to Ambassador Parmentier there is a sentence about "Kucam who has helped several groups with a journey since I took over but unfortunately something went wrong regularly there and I often had to get angry with him". This shows that there was some problem there after all. Of course, I fully understand the difficulties in getting your administrative research done, but this is a very peculiar sentence from that mail. Did you find anything to indicate what those difficulties were? Secondly, on Operation Aleppo, you say very emphatically: it has been tested within the government. Is that what happened for the other actions? I remember images of the former Secretary of State along with the Prime Minister, where that was promoted. Were those other actions checked out, too? Why am I asking? Exactly because of the huge difference in the statistics. In 2014, when you were Secretary of State, there were 208 cases, and in 2017 there were 2 361. That's a huge rise. I agree with you when you say that there is almost a new immigration channel. That's right. According to these figures, humanitarian visas are certainly no longer an exception. But it amazes me that within the functioning of the government when people saw those figures... at the core, I mean. It wasn't you who had to see that as Minister of Health. You were in another department. But there must have been some knowledge of these figures and of this huge explosion of humanitarian visas. I am simply asking because there is no control from Parliament, when it turns out that things were still going rather neatly when Operation Aleppo was running but that the longer the procedure was running, it became more sloppy and imprecise. If there was no control whatsoever within the government, we would be under a particularly arbitrary system under Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u14	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it will not surprise you that a few different sounds will follow now than you have heard before. What I have always said, since the start of these hearings, seems more and more to be true. I have always said that we are not a committee of inquiry; we must not go into the area of judicial investigation. There is always talk of abuse and fraud, but it is precisely these cases that need to be dealt with in the judicial investigation. That is not why we have come to the right place. I also have a few questions for you, Madam Secretary. At the beginning of your speech, you spoke of a dozen e-mails that were found. I didn't get that right. Could you give me a little more explanation? Are these e-mails relevant to the investigation or not? It's a total of 1 502 people. The report does not say whether there are people in this area who are dangerous to public order or who have committed crimes. I assume you've conducted an investigation into their past and any criminal acts. Have you been able to discover certain things or are there no criminals among them? You have also said that 121 of them are still not registered. They're gone. I suppose it's mostly Melikan Kucam's group? It had arrived a year later. Are there or are there not people for whom the time limit for applying for asylum has not yet expired? If they have not asked for asylum, it is certainly not in their own interest, because staying illegally on the territory is certainly not a good situation. Madam Secretary, you said that another system was being set up. You also said it was the cause of the derailments and abuses. What is the causal link between that system and the derailments and abuses? Misuse does not fall within the competence of this committee and is part of the ongoing judicial investigation. I hope they'll figure it out to the bone. If there are or would be abuses, then they must be dealt with strictly. That is what we have always said, and we are sticking to it. We want the court to do its job. It called for objective criteria, for cooperation with UN organisations. It is said that the Secretary of State would have acted alone, but I also heard here say that it should remain discretionary. Too much arguing for objective criteria also poses a danger. If objective criteria are maintained and given into the hands of international organisations, a right will arise for the candidates, for those who wish to register for them. Now it's still a favor. The government may or may not do that favour, but if such objective criteria are made, in conjunction with the United Nations, with international organisations, then we are at the mercy of arbitrariness or justice. Then we won't be able to control it anymore. Then the gates are open. The idea was suggested to confront the Secretary of State with that report. I think he will certainly want to take note of that and reply. Whether that happens orally or in writing, I leave it in the middle. Your report has nine pages, for which I am grateful. You say, however, that Theo Francken did not say anything. His report was 16 pages and, importantly, he also made a number of recommendations. Many things in any matter can be better. He himself said that improvements in the procedure were certainly possible, and he made recommendations at that time. I have every confidence in the judicial investigation. I hope this happens as soon as possible. Certain terminology such as fraud or abuse belongs to the judicial domain. Mr De Vriendt said yesterday in the interview of Karim Van Overmeire that the Francken system led to self-enrichment. I think that is a very heavy word. Then Mr De Vriendt has to explain to me, I do not see him now, what he means by that. He needs to be more specific about that. It is not easy to say such heavy words.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u15	Mr President, I apologise for my vote, I am hoarse. Madam Minister, this report confirms what we suspected and for which I warned a number of years ago, in particular that there was a lack of transparency in the humanitarian visa procedure and to whom they were granted. This was confirmed at the recent hearings and now again by the administrative inquiry you have carried out. I would like to reiterate that we have never doubted the importance and proper use of humanitarian visas. They are, after all, a solution to individual cases, for example, for a family who has left a 19-year-old son in a refugee camp in Lebanon, so that he cannot be found by means of family reunification, but who also needs protection. You have also underlined that humanitarian visas are available for individual cases. That is what is happening, although to a limited extent. DVZ always investigates this very thoroughly and checks whether there is a need for protection. It's going well. The other side of the matter, the resettlement of groups of people who have been checked by the United Nations on a case-by-case basis, is also going well. This has already worked well in the previous legislature and has also worked well in this legislature. However, Mr Francken's playground failed, so to speak. After all, he started working with friends who gave him lists of people, to whom he gave a visa without boo or ba. He put his administration out of play. We had already heard that from DVZ and we hear from you again today that several lists were indeed emailed, in which the administration did not have any input to check what it did in other files or people were vulnerable. That is where things have gone wrong, and that has also been kept completely out of Parliament's sight. I am also surprised that you say today that this game has been going on longer than since 2017-2018. So we don't even know when it started right: probably in 2015 and 2016, but also for the years 2017 and 2018 many lists were found. What also went wrong is that for some refugees, for people in need, apparently there were different rules of the game. There are certain refugees who were allowed to pass along the air bridge of political connections, where no investigation was conducted and the administration was completely out of play, and there are other refugees who had to follow the procedure, including the screening by DVZ. In fact, two corridors were created: the strict DVZ corridor with prior and ex post control, because they had to apply for asylum, and the corridor based on blind confidence, which led to abuses. In that corridor, the procedures were not transparent, the administration was out of play and not everyone who came to our country apparently felt it necessary to apply for asylum. As many as 121 people didn't do that. Who are these people, Madam Secretary? Where are they? Are they a potential danger to society? Did you pass on the names of those people to the OCAD for security reasons, or will you? Where are they? We need to know who is staying on our territory and whether there can be a danger to society. There may be links with the networks in Antwerp. I do not know that, but it might be possible, especially if one finds that a large group of people have not applied for asylum, especially those who have come here on Kucam's lists. In the hearing with Mr Francken, I found that he implicitly beat mea culpa and had an improvement plan, but that was not about the substance of the matter. For example, he said that he would screen the intermediaries better. I'm sorry, but that doesn't solve the problem. By screening an intermediary, even if it is someone with a blank record, the problem is not solved. If we do not have criteria for those who are allowed to come and those who are not, then we are not doing very well. We must be as strict as anyone who enters our country. We must make an effective choice for people who are vulnerable and for people who have been screened. It cannot be that one person is screened thoroughly and another person is not screened thoroughly, just because he is lucky enough to get on a list. Maybe he's not even so lucky and he's had to pay tens of thousands of euros. Payments are a matter for further examination by the court. I do not agree with you, Mr Degroote, if you say that we have nothing to do here. We do have an important task. We are talking here about political responsibility and the responsibility of both a State Secretary and Parliament. What procedures should be followed? How should they be organised? What went wrong? What procedures were not followed? Why was there a sudden deviation from normal procedures? They used to go through DVZ. At some point, the cabinet suddenly decided not to do that anymore. Why? We still have the guessing to do so, but we do see the consequences. That is a political problem which we can discuss, assess and condemn here, because here the principle of care has not been maintained. For criminal matters and whether money has been paid or not, I fully rely on the courthouse. The parquet will find out. But we also have an important responsibility here. Things can be said, too. There is also a political responsibility here. If the shoe fits, put it on. It is quite clear that mistakes have been made here, with the knowledge of the cabinet. That could have been avoided. That's the sad part. That could have been avoided if the Secretary of State wanted to listen. Unfortunately, he didn't want to do that. Finally, I would like to say that in the future we really must ensure that the system, as I have been asking for years and which I hope you will now be competent to do, is put back on track. In fact, we must continue with the resolution. It's working well. The handout of individual visas also runs quite well, via DVZ. There can be even more transparency. There is room for further clarification so that people know what procedure to follow. That's important. But that's generally pretty good. As far as I am concerned, rescue operations are also sometimes necessary, so let us not throw away the baby with the bath water. I also have no problem with the fact that at some point you decide to have 100 or 150 people come to Belgium through a rescue operation. In itself, I have no problem with a collective rescue. But I do have a problem with it if people don't judge these people individually. In that sense, I would like to add that you still have a case-by-case assessment to make. But it may be about a group that comes here after individual assessment in group. Let us get this misunderstanding out of the way. Well, I think they're welcome to join the group. For example, the rescue operations via Sant'Egidio have been very transparent, with a lot of checks-and-balances. That's good. There was a contract and so on. If we can do this in the future, let us do it in particular. But with caution. I believe that we still have an important task to carry out again the policy, and especially the application, which we do not always have a view on. I believe that we should not only get answers when we ask questions, but that at least once a year there should also be a debate in Parliament which gives an overview of both humanitarian and regular visa policy. They are a different topic, but there are many common points. Mr President, I would like to limit my brief remarks to this point. I hope that we can now turn the tide again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u16	Mr President, Minister, in my turn I would like to thank you for the enlightening explanation. I am glad that we finally have the information and transparency about the procedures that Parliament has been asking for for some years. It is a pity that there had to be a scandal before we could have that information. It is clear that the investigation conducted by the Department of Foreign Affairs was not evident. This only shows that it was not so structured. We will certainly continue to study the nine pages with detailed figures. Reference has already been made to the 16-page report presented here by the former Secretary of State last month, but I hope, Mr Degroote, that the number of pages for you does not constitute a serious argument for comparison. Moreover, your own group leader recently stated in plenary that a good lawyer does not need many pages. Let us look at the content instead of the number of pages. The contents are quite striking. Madam Minister, you have confirmed today what we have been saying for a long time, that the exception procedure for humanitarian visas has really been extended in recent years to a new current channel of migration. Under Secretary of State Francken, this number has increased tenfold in recent years, to about two thousand a year. As previous speakers have said, we have always wanted to show with real figures that the theory does not always correspond to the Theo practice and the perception that we wanted to create. Mr Degroote has just referred to the fact that no one is allowed to go into the field of judicial investigation. I am pleased that this is not happening today and also during the previous hearings. We let the court work, we let the court investigate the malicious practices and check whether abuses have taken place. It is up to us to evaluate the system that makes possible any malicious practices, as this must help the world. A second element in which I can accommodate you, you say that you are not in favour of defined criteria. I fully share your opinion. If, as Greens or other parties ask, we were to apply the criteria laid down for these humanitarian visas, it would only ensure that it becomes enforceable and that it becomes a right rather than a favour. It just needs to be an exception again. It must remain a discretionary power, as Mr Degroote has literally said. I think this report shows that this was just the problem. It has not been used as a discretionary power, but as an arbitrary power. In the case of discretionary powers, we must be very careful. That must be done in conjunction with the administration. I read in the report that that administration was not even aware of the selection method, that it did not even have documented files that could be analyzed and that the instruction only had to be carried out practically. The problem is, of course, that we do not have discretionary powers, but that we do have arbitrary powers. If intermediaries are used which are not independent or impartial, then there is indeed a possibility of abuse. That needs to be addressed, so it is very good that the system of intermediaries is no longer common today. Madam Minister, my question is whether you will not join in the question of the left-wing opposition, which wants established criteria for humanitarian visas. My main concern is that it will thus become a right instead of a favor. It has to be an exception again. I would like some clarification from you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u17	Minister, I would like to thank you sincerely for the clarification and information you have provided. You started your presentation by saying you were surprised. You're really not the only one. Everyone was surprised, to different degrees, here, by the content of your report. What is most appealing to me is to see that a number of people and even a large number, you say, have been able to come. They're not being tried for intent. They're probably all good people, but we finally don't know. In other rooms, because we are in a context of terrorist threat, we have been working for hours and months to find ways to strengthen our internal security in relation to all those who transit or come to Belgium. Here, we realize that a whole group of people are passing through our territory and leaving it. You are telling us that a large number may have left the country without being registered. I'm very, very honest about this. Beyond that, I would like to share with you another astonishment. How is it possible that the administration was not at all aware of the operation of this selection system? How is it explained that the administration did not finally get wind of it and was not alerted to this issue? This remains a source of questioning for me because I still imagined that the administrations and the firms were talking and that the mechanics were working, perhaps not harmoniously but in good agreement. Here, we have the impression that there has been a complete partitioning with the administration. I'm surprised. What can you tell us? To make the simple observation that the administration was not aware of it, I take note of it, I accept it, but I am still surprised, except to consider that the administration and the firm were not talking at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u18	If there are no further questions, I will give the Minister the floor again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u19	There were a lot of questions. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you're asking me what the security checks were. It was the OCAM and the Sûreté de l'Etat that carried out the checks, but, as Mr Dallemagne said, the BNG was not consulted. There are security checks that are also worrying Mr. Pivin. But controls on the vulnerability criterion are also necessary and these have not been done, except for Aleppo and Sant'Egidio. Of course, there is also the follow-up that had to happen afterwards and that did not actually happen. People have disappeared. I was asked how I could find them. But we can't find them. We don't know who they are or where they are. Mr Dallemagne, I have communicated the figures and what has happened with the lists and people concerned. It's up to you to decide if it's aberrant. I didn't use that word. I'll leave you to the judge alone. It is true that the checks carried out were very limited. Nor was it ever asked to carry out more checks. More controls have never been requested. There is normally an additional check on the asylum application by the services. However, the administrative services, in particular the Commissioner-General, were not involved in advance. What is the consequence of this procedure? This stopped when Mr. Franken left office. Before that, I never used these methods, either, and I didn't know they had been used. I learned it on Twitter the night the report was broadcast on television. We used to know nothing about these methods, not at home, not at the firm. The services cooperate in the judicial investigation, which is independent of administrative investigations. As part of the judicial investigation, questions are asked by the investigators. I did not ask what questions were asked, but I asked my services to collaborate fully to provide the data they need. I have to tell you that judicial review is mainly focused on the Melikan Kucam case and not on the others. It is therefore useful to have launched the other administrative investigations. Several members asked how more transparency could be achieved. Mr De Vriendt and Mrs Lanjri, among others, have asked for this. I believe that any annual report by the Foreign Affairs Office can be discussed in committee. However, we must realise that such a debate requires more data than what we have found on the lists. There too, therefore, more accuracy will have to be demonstrated. Mr De vriend, the UN refugee organisation is indeed the privileged partner for us to work together. This used to be the case. I have also said that other reliable organisations can be called upon if the UN is not present in certain places. This will have to be decided by itself at the moment. Are there any protocols or agreements? In the case of Sant'Egidio, we know only from what we have heard from Mr De Volder that contracts are being drawn up. Mrs Lanjri confirms this. In any case, we know that the criterion 'vulnerability' was the main criterion there. A number of agreements were made in this area and the selection was made by persons on the spot. They have provided the necessary dossiers and transparency. Apart from Aleppo, as far as we can see, Sant'Egidio is also an exception. Then I come to the control of vulnerability. This must have happened for Aleppo. All the flashing lights were on red so people had to be evacuated quickly. It is therefore very strange that we can find more details of this than of the later operations in 2017 and 2018, when there was no longer a great urgency. As far as the mail traffic of the cabinet is concerned. The government in question no longer exists. The transfer took place, but we did not receive this data. So we have no knowledge of that. Only a limited number of e-mails have been recovered from the Foreign Office. These e-mails came from the cabinet and are very short. Those e-mails gave the order to issue humanitarian visas to a certain list of persons. The name of the intermediary was also mentioned in those e-mails. We had to reconstruct the whole story. After all, we only knew the name Melikan, but not the group Dibo, the group Gave Veste or the group Scherpenheuvel-Aalst. All these names were used in the e-mails. We have not found any element about the system in the transfer, so we have actually had to look blind in our administration. The cabinet in question did not exist at that time either. The future will be what the past was among me: the services will always be involved. The Commissioner-General will always be involved, DVZ will always have complete information. We want a case-by-case or family dossier for which humanitarian visas are requested. Safety checks must always be carried out. That is how we have always worked and, without knowing that there had been another system, we have started working directly with our former, better controlled system from day one. It is only in very urgent circumstances, of which Aleppo is the best example, that we can deviate from this, but it seems to me natural that the government should be informed about this. Follow-up has hardly happened, which makes it difficult for us to know what has happened to those people, especially those who have not applied for asylum. Normally Mr Degroote also asked for one year to apply for asylum. The group of Melikan Kucam came last, in September 2018. The other groups, such as Aleppo and others, have always made agreements so that they can be accompanied in their asylum applications in the foreseeable future, as soon as they have reached their peak, for example after one or two months. I believe that this is also a follow-up, but it has not happened here either. For example, in the Aleppo group, we saw that all those people applied for asylum very quickly, because their family reunifications were already in the course of 2016, which means that they had already received protection and could rely on it for family reunification. Mr De Vriendt, you said that there was a proposal. I understand that a number of proposals will be discussed next week. As far as the retention of discretionary powers is concerned, I have also said a number of times that I think this is also necessary. We must have the opportunity to continue doing this on a very individual basis for very individual reasons. I can tell you that in the three to four years in which I was responsible, 200 people were involved. There were never any questions about this, not a difficult one, or there was no debate on it. At some point I experienced an increase of 60 people, but that was explainable because we had done resettlement for a first group: they were in it. That is perfectly explained why one goes from 200 to 266 in a year, if there is a group with resettlement in it. We didn't have a problem with that. With clear criteria for vulnerability, I'm having a hard time. Mrs Pas asked a question about this. I have had debates on this with distant predecessors such as Mr Dewael and Mrs Turtelboom. Once clear criteria are laid down, the favour is lost. Applicants can then focus on that and that is not the intention. As far as cooperation with the UN and other recognised organisations are concerned, I think it is right that you should include this in your proposal. We don't really need a law for that, that was always the way to work. As you can see, this has now been deviated. As far as parliamentary control is concerned, I have proposed that a report be submitted once a year by the Foreign Office. Then we can ask questions about this to the person who will be responsible for it at that time. I hope I'll be gone by then. I have started this and will have to tell you who I have granted humanitarian visas to. In particular, the list was sent to DVZ, stating that it was a discretionary power of the State Secretary. No individual files were therefore drawn up. There were only names and dates of birth. Mr Vuye, you mentioned the e-mail sent from the cabinet to Mr Parmentier. You may have it, but we have not found it, but you have also said that you have been reasonably tenacious.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u20	I sent that e-mail around.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u21	I don't have it, but I'd like to look at it. In the lists we found, we saw that over the years their quality went down with the worst lists at Mr Kucam. There was no verification of the figures of the government's humanitarian regularization except for Aleppo. Foreign Affairs was involved and the government was informed. It was also the government's choice to be involved. The government wasn't aware of the rest. Mr Degroote, it is indeed a thorough administrative investigation, which has been very difficult because a lot of information had to be sought from the various administrations. I have said from day one that we are moving away from the ongoing judicial investigation. We have nothing to do with this, apart from the cooperation of the administrations. There was a question about the danger to public order. In one case, there was exclusion on grounds of public policy in the proceedings. That could have been avoided. There's a group that pisses off Mr. Pivin too, the one that never applied for asylum. There's a group of 121 people who weren't registered. 107 people belong to the Kucam list. You say that they still have time, but we could have avoided that by pointing out to them that they should apply for asylum within a few months. Now the question arises where these people are, who they are and on what grounds they have come here. One asks about the causal link between the system and possible fraud sensitivity. From what we have found out, you will see this in the report, at least we can say that it was a new and unprecedented system. In any case, it was not known to the members of the Chamber. Besides, it was a sloppy system. After all, it is remarkable how bad intermediaries can be found. The intermediaries are not always mentioned by name and name, only with their place of residence. We do not therefore know why such a sloppy system was put in place, when there was already a good system for this discretionary power. In the case of resolution, humanitarian visas are also issued on the basis of discretionary powers, but selection criteria apply and the Commissioner-General is involved in this on a number of occasions. Preparations are currently under way for a group of people. This is done on the basis of files examined two or three times by our services. Only then will the Commissioner-General give me a list he proposes. That list will then be passed on to the Foreign Affairs Office. I can only conclude that there has been a departure from that course of action. I am very much in favour of discretionary powers, but there must be sufficient control. There must be sufficient checks-and-balances. We must be sure that the control has taken place before opening a safe corridor to our country. In fact, it can be assumed from the selection that the people concerned will certainly ask for asylum and will almost certainly receive asylum. Mrs Lanjri, I have already answered some of your questions. You also ask who and where are the 121 people who are not registered. It's exactly a quiz here, but I don't know about that either. I wish I knew, because I'm not entirely comfortable with it either, like Mr Pivin and yourself, but we just don't know who these people are. We can make a call, but no one is likely to sign up. Next week there will indeed be a number of issues to discuss, for example the question of what information the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs to the Chamber should certainly contain. After all, the number does not say much: for example, in some years there is resolution and in others there is no resolution. The number also depends on ongoing conflicts in the world. The number is therefore a matter, but knowing where these people come from, who they are, where they ended up, who has applied for asylum and who has not, is more important. In most cases, in the past, except in the case of resolution, it was about individual cases and families or groups of people, but still more on an individual basis. It is actually the first time that this has been done on the basis of lists, where people do not know how these people have been brought together and why they have gone to certain cities alone. Mrs Pas, in a discretionary capacity one must indeed cooperate with the services. The security controls are part of the system that was originally set up, so it seems clear to me that we will continue to work in this way. If there is no control, there is always a certain danger and the choice is indeed more arbitrary, and one does not know on what basis a decision is taken. That remains the big question. Mr Pivin, like you, we do not know where these people are or why they did not apply for asylum. If they are refugees, they have every interest in applying for asylum. As soon as possible, they ask the question, as soon as possible, they will be in the system and will be recognized. Then there is the possibility, as for the people of Aleppo, of asking for family reunification as well. One can imagine, for example, that people at risk in Aleppo have not found all their family members, some of whom are already safer. I'll leave it to the committee to examine the tables. It is certainly strange that 107 of the people on the lists were not registered and 78 of the selected people never got the visa. So one may wonder what happened to those people. On what basis did they decide not to collect the visa they received? How did that happen? Did something go wrong with the intermediaries or were they no longer available? That is also a great question mark for us. I'm glad I asked for the administrative inquiry. I have already learned a number of lessons, especially that we are working better in the way we used to work and that the new way that was developed, perhaps in the aftermath of Aleppo, is not very transparent, either for Members of Parliament or for those involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u22	Madam Secretary, I am aware that we can only now make our statement. Our associate has been here all afternoon and has told me that it was an interesting presentation with rounds of questions. Unfortunately, I have to apologize to my colleague Monica De Coninck, who normally follows up on the subject. That's why I come in here so late. After hearing everything and having consulted with the employee who found this particularly interesting, I have only one very factual question. Madam Secretary, I don't know if you know; it might have been in the tables. How many persons whose visas have since expired have not applied for asylum? The answer seems interesting to us for a number of conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u23	Madam Secretary, I had you deliver the e-mail from the Francken cabinet, addressed to the Beirut consul, because you said you didn't have it yet. I had it in my documents and I gave you a copy of it. What interests me now is the sequel. On the one hand, there is our request to hear the former Secretary of State again here so that we can confront him with this report. That seems to me to be the logic itself. On the other hand, there is the question of whether there should be a legislative change or not. Madam Minister, you make it very clear that you will not make the mistakes made by your predecessor. Of course, you will not always be the competent Minister for Asylum and Migration. I do not know what your ambition is, but in any case you will not be the Minister of Asylum and Migration of this country until the end of the day. Our fear is that without a legislative amendment we cannot rule out this scenario repeating itself because the current law gives the minister too much freedom. It is therefore necessary to amend the law so that we can prevent this abuse in the future. This does not mean that we want to create an automatic right to humanitarian visas, because that would be unwise, but it does mean that we need more parliamentary control, we need to work with clearly recognised organisations and not cheating, no filières and not working with shady intermediates/N-VA party members, as your predecessor has done. Only a change of law will prevent what happened here. We have a few weeks left. This is indeed on the agenda next week, but I hope that we will be able to end this discussion with this House and that we will really finish it together, across party boundaries, to ensure that this kind of derailment will not be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for your further explanation. I hope that the policy will not be to close this door to the humanitarian visa. It is a very valuable tool for international protection. I was even a priori satisfied that the government is increasing the number of humanitarian visas that allow – in principle, if the procedures are well respected – to identify very vulnerable people and to avoid the very complicated and sometimes fatal passage of the Mediterranean. I am very much in favour of continuing to use this instrument of international protection but to do so in accordance with the rules you have recalled and to pay attention to situations of great vulnerability. There are people who still deserve our full attention and protection. I insist a lot on that. I know that other countries are using this instrument of international protection more often. I plead that we go in that direction, as long as we identify the people who truly deserve our protection. The second point concerns security. You recalled that there was no control of the BNG. Has this control taken place in the meantime at the BNG? There is also the safety of people that has probably been put at risk. When we see that 78 people have not gone to withdraw their visas, we can wonder what they have become. I don't know if you have any information about this, but some of the people who didn't withdraw their visas may have paid a lot of money. In the Melikan Kucam system, we paid for this visa. So it's paradoxical to pay a very expensive visa that we couldn't get back from our embassy. Do you have any additional information on the safety of these people? Are there any indications that they would have been prevented from doing so or that their safety would have been endangered? There has been both a danger to public safety and a danger to the safety of people through this system. Thirdly, I would like to join colleagues who have asked to hear Mr Franken again. I think that the very heavy information that has been given to us today would be worthy of confronting Theo Francken, since we have the feeling that he has told us very little about what has happened and what he knows about the whole system. Finally, you know that we have tabled a bill that fully respects the discretionary nature of these visas, which are granted but which, as you suggest, actually provides for a report to Parliament. In this bill are simply described elements that must be included in this report. We hope, since you seem to go quite in this direction, that we will soon have a constructive discussion aimed at not bureaucratizing the system, leaving it a great deal of room for manoeuvre, but allowing it to be transparent and to be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, which I think is very important in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u25	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you for this additional information. If you don't mind, I still have two questions about the table. I see we identify minors and adults. There is no male-female specificity. Did you have any data or did this not appear in the tables? I think this is an interesting data. In the table there are those who have not been removed from the visa, those who have not registered, and then there is a category "other" which includes 58 people. Can you tell me what this category corresponds to? I'm sorry if you said so, but there's been a lot of information. On the other hand, I join the request of the Groen colleagues and the CDH to rehearse Mr Franken, who nevertheless came, very valiant, a few weeks ago and who did not speak the truth, as we hear him today. Finally, minister, it is thought that there may still be other people, since we are not sure if we have found all the lists, even if I understand that you have done what is necessary. I'm worried about security, but I'm also worried about those 107 people. I hope they're not victims for the third time. That is why I asked the question of the gender relationship. Like my colleagues, I would like to point out that we too have tabled a text. We are obviously very attached to this discretion because, as you have said, it is extremely important in particular cases or in emergency situations. Like you, we believe that we need an annual report to Parliament. We also need answers. I can hear that there is criticism of parliamentary work, but I think that Mr Franken's questions about humanitarian visas and his policy have not failed. We have often lacked answers and, in any case, transparency. Without wishing to argue, I would say that, if Parliament's control of a member of the government is a truth, it is also a control of the government over one of its members. However, many of us have often called the alarm bell and have not been heard or even been somewhat scorned in the answers given to us, among other things by the Prime Minister on certain issues. I am pleased that the various texts can be debated. In view of what has been learned today, we need to regulate things. I am simply saying to my colleague from the N-VA that we were seeking a committee of inquiry; I am even more sorry today that it did not come into being. It was not a question of replacing justice but of trying to define Mr Franken's political responsibilities, which he had always escaped in recent years, sometimes with the support or support of the majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u26	Mr President, Minister, let us take a look at the future of these humanitarian visas. There is a very important distinction between individual use of that procedure and collective use. That when it comes to an individual procedure, the Secretary of State has a discretionary power, or possibly even DVD, as agent, I can understand that. Then there's an individual case, there's an individual file. On the other hand, however, when it comes to collective use, what has happened here with those lists, it is better not to place that decision-making power on one person. It would be much better if in future the government had to take a formal decision, as apparently has been the case with Aleppo. So there is a big difference between an individual procedure, one person with one file, and a collective procedure. That procedure is not really meant for this in origin either. It is better to have a system with more eyes to watch when this procedure is used collectively. Things like this, with a very sloppy and imprecise use of this procedure, can then be avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that next Wednesday afternoon the Minister will be coming back for the legislative proposals that we were unable to deal with yesterday because they were previously draft legislation and have been converted into a legislative proposal, and for the points relating to today's debate, concerning humanitarian visas and access to residence. These are the proposals made by Mrs De Coninck, Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Matz, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and Mr De Vriendt. Then there was also a question for Mr Francken to come here again, for a new hearing. We shall have to settle this with a regulation of the work. Then we must ask him if he is willing to come. Here and now, however, we cannot decide that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, we are looking for the answer to the question as to how many of the people with expired visas have not yet applied for asylum. We know how many have not yet applied for asylum, but we do not know how many of them have expired visas. That's what we're still sniffing up. Mr De Vriendt, you say that there has been too much freedom in the current system. The system that existed had much less freedom, you know that. It's just the system that's been set up here, that's had a huge freedom. In the case of discretionary powers, the balance between freedom and responsibility must always be respected, with the emphasis on responsibility. This also means that his services are involved in the checks and balances, the expertise of the Commissioner-General and of the Foreign Affairs Office. One can ask to look at something and whether it is eligible for a humanitarian visa, but one can also say: here are the names, give them. That is a difference in how services are handled. I shall leave that to the wisdom of this sitting next week. With the criteria, I think we're running two dangers. Firstly, there is the danger that Mrs Pas, that it will become a right and not a favour. Secondly, Mr Dallemagne raises the danger of excluding people who can only fall back on the discretionary competence for humanitarian visas. There are dangers on both sides. I think that what existed, but obviously with the necessary controls, was well balanced. Of the people who didn't come to withdraw their visa, we really don't have any data.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u29	Were some of them linked to the Melikan Kucam industry?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u30	There were some on all the lists. Those who did not come for visas, in Kucam's group, were 78. But there are also in the others. This is the first column, the table on page 6. Mrs Fernandez, you ask whether we know the number of adults and minors, the number of women and men. I think we have that information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u31	I would like to add to my question. Do you know if there are any families? I think it's interesting to know. I don't know if you have such information since the lists don't seem clear. I am not asking for an answer today, minister. I think it would be interesting to know the profile of the people who have arrived through this sector, depending on the different channels. Single women, single men, single minors, whole families...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u32	We will look into the information we have. You see, in the table on page 7, that there are also nine people on the Melikan Kucam list without a date of birth. We don't know how old they are. That's important to know. People in the "Other" category are people who are registered in the communes but do not qualify for subsidiary or international protection. Protection may have been denied. Some people hold an A card "Family, education, employment". Three died and three others were ordered to leave the territory. Finally, one person did not apply. It's in the table... Mr Vuye, it is interesting that you say that we should distinguish between how far the responsibility of the Secretary of State concerned goes in an individual case and how far it goes in the collective use of humanitarian visas. I believe that with regard to the Aleppo operation, and also with regard to the work of Sant'Egidio and possibly others, it was well reflected who the people involved were, how the selection had happened and so on. I think we should distinguish ourselves from what happened afterwards, with incomplete information and files that were not even made up. I'll be here next week. We will look further at the few missing information and forward it through the President. Next week I will be here for two laws containing various provisions and for the rest of the discussion of the proposals before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u33	Madam Minister, I think the debate on the future of humanitarian visas is extremely important. The point is that current legislation has allowed the Francken system. I believe that we must do everything we can to make that Francken system impossible in the future, under a future minister. Let me give you an example. Today there is general indignation that Theo Francken has worked with individual intermediaries who were not known to anyone, not even within the government. If we register in the law that collective humanitarian visas must be co-operated with either the United Nations or recognised organisations with which a protocol agreement is concluded, then the list comes to Parliament, so that the action takes place in full transparency, we are legally anchoring that the Francking system with individual intermediaries is no longer legal and can no longer be done. I believe that this is a piste, ladies and gentlemen, which is worth examining. Knowing what we know today and knowing the abuse that has been there in recent years. We can continue this discussion next week. That's obvious. Mr President, I would like to ask that our request to hear the former Secretary of State be added to the committee's work so that we can decide on this next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u34	We shall set the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u35	Mr De Vriendt, I have a small question for you: you said yesterday that the Francken system led to self-enrichment. I thought that was a very heavy word. You mean the person who's in prison? Do you have any clarification on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u36	Mr Degroote, your party colleague has set up a system that has opened the door to fraud, abuse and apparently even outright corruption when we talk about Melikan Kucam.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u37	When you speak of self-enrichment, do you speak only of him or do you have others in mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u38	It's about Melikan Kucam. That's bad enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u39	That's very bad, and the court has to figure it out to the bone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u40	Mr President, we wish to reiterate our support for the proposal of our colleague from Groen to hear Mr Franken. I don't understand why we can't decide today. I understand that Mr Franken will decide whether to come or not, he has no obligation. But I don't see why we have to wait another week. There are four weeks left of parliamentary work. Given what we have heard today, it would be very interesting to confront him with the administrative report. Why is the request not being made today? We shall proceed to the vote if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u41	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, the answer is very simple, we are not in number. The quorum requires that there be nine of us, and there are eight of us. Mr Dallemagne is not a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1056x.u42	Mr President, we can bring the power of attorney, if only that!
