ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u1	Madam President, Minister, justice is sorely underfunded. Many of my colleagues and I have already stressed this fact many times in this committee. This lack of resources illustrates once again. It appears that there is an eight-year delay in obtaining mandatory uniforms for prison officers. As a result, some officers find themselves having to go to work in civilian clothes. Minister, does this seem acceptable to you? How do you explain this waiting period? What measures do you envisage to remedy this, in the very short term? As this question is somewhat dated, it is of course possible that you have found solutions since then, and I would welcome it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u2	Madam Chair, Ms. Leroy, the backlog is about workwear – parkas, jackets, uniforms and intervention pants. The backlog dates back to 2013 and not 2011, but it does relate to the renewal of these garments for benefits made since 2011, which probably explains the confusion. There are various reasons for the creation of this backlog, the main one being the absence of a uniform supplier between 2014 and 2018. In 2013, the supplier of uniform pants of the time was put into liquidation. The procedure for the designation of a new supplier had to be implemented twice. The first contract launched for a public proceeding in 2014 could not be awarded because the two bidders had introduced a materially and technically irregular tender. At the beginning of 2016, the market could be launched towards a negotiated procedure which also did not succeed for technical reasons. Pending the designation of a new external partner for the manufacture and supply of uniforms, the Régie du travail corrections Cellmade was commissioned internally in 2017 to deliver approximately 23,100 intervention pants. What we do ourselves, we can do better. Cellmade collaborates with an external private company in the manufacture of intervention pants. The delivery of these pants is under way. It is expected that by 2020 all deliveries will have been made. In July 2018, a new supplier was designated for the supply of uniforms through a new public procurement procedure. In the first phase, the supply of 6,000 uniform pants and 1,000 parkas is still planned for 2019. In addition, an order will be placed again this year for the backlog of all the items provided for in this contract for the agents who gave their measurements, including approximately 12,200 intervention pants. Their delivery is scheduled for the first half of 2020. Mrs Leroy, I hope that the delivery of these 35,300 intervention pants within a relatively short period of time, which will partially reduce the backlog, will please you somewhat. I would have wanted to do better, but that was not possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u3	Minister, after all the unsatisfactory answers to the questions I have already asked here about prison conditions or working conditions, I finally get a positive answer. Indeed, it is very important for workers to be able to benefit from the most favourable working conditions possible. I'll be quick to relay the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I will ask you about the fight against trafficking in human beings. Today, I will specifically address the issue of field work. A future inquiry will allow me to revisit the criminal approach against smugglers. The 2019 edition of Myria's report, Migration in Figures and Rights, makes recommendations to better combat trafficking in human beings, with particular emphasis on the criminal approach of smugglers. Myria hopes that the police, magistrates and inspection services will have human and technical resources to combat human trafficking more effectively, in particular in order to develop research via the Internet and social networks. In addition, the Centre also noted that front-line services should be better trained to detect victims of human trafficking, especially when they are minors. So, Minister, what has been put in place or what do you intend to put in place to ensure the implementation of these Myria recommendations for a more effective fight against trafficking in human beings? How do you currently assess the criminal approach to trafficking in human beings? What are the positive and negative elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u5	Mr Kir, thank you for this question. Myria's recommendations are always taken seriously. The latter are included in a report published last month. So we didn't have time to start implementing them. In any event, I must point out that trafficking in human beings is one of the priorities of the National Security Plan. It is therefore already treated as a priority phenomenon, although, of course, more important means remain useful. The issue of training and awareness-raising of field actors addressed in the report is a key element and efforts have been made. Two training courses on the identification of minor victims were given in 2019, in the French Community, for youth support services. Similarly, in the Flemish Region, a working group is finalising a guide on Trafficking in Human Beings and Youth Assistance, which is to serve as a basis for future training. In addition, a working group has been set up within the Federal Police to update training on human trafficking and standardize it at provincial police schools. The criminal approach to trafficking and trafficking in human beings is the subject of a criminal policy circular on trafficking in human beings dated 2015 and a criminal policy circular on trafficking in human beings dated 2018. In each district and jurisdiction, judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office are appointed as reference magistrates in these matters. They form the so-called network of magistrates' expertise on trafficking and trafficking in human beings. In particular, they participate in awareness-raising and training activities organized by the various partners in the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The positive points raised abroad with regard to Belgian policy on trafficking and trafficking in human beings are the multidisciplinary approach and criminal policy put in place. Difficulties are, inter alia, linked to the diversity of the phenomenon and the constant effort to raise awareness of the problem among a large number of sectors or actors. Finally, the structural financing of reception centres is also a focus of the Myria report. In this connection, I can point out that I have personally invested in trying to find a solution to this question by drawing up a supplementary budget with my colleagues in charge of Equal Opportunities. However, the next government will have to take over and follow up on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u6	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response. You obviously have a little more time to further analyze Myria's recommendations. I see that all the tools are already well in place, even if they need to be improved: the guide for professionals, the training of front-line workers, the police and the circular which is still the legal basis with reference magistrates. I note that, on the issue of funding, you are referring to the future government. Mr Minister, thank you for these answers and I will come back with another inquiry on trafficking in human beings, in particular with regard to the accompaniment carried out by PAG-ASA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u7	Minister, the Circular on Research and Prosecution Policy on Discrimination and Hate Offences provides for the appointment of a reference police officer, in particular to inform officers of the contents of the circular. In practice, when appointed, these officials are not in direct contact with officials responsible for receiving victims of racism and discrimination. The control of this subject by the agents will, in many respects, depend on their personal involvement. According to the testimony received by the MRAX and included in its 2019 memorandum, the police officer replaces the magistrate by determining whether or not it is an offence. However, the circular requires that the minutes be transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office. Minister, are you aware of the issues raised by the MRAX Memorandum regarding the efficient monitoring of anti-discrimination offences? If so, what steps have you taken to ensure that the minutes are transmitted to a magistrate? What measures are being taken to ensure better follow-up of complaints and better prosecution of offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u8	Mr Kir, the comments made by the MRAX reflect the findings already made by Unia and by the Anti-Discrimination Legislation Evaluation Committee. Circular 13/2013, which sets out the criminal policy in this area, is very clear as to the requirement for a report to be drawn up for each event denounced. It also stipulates that the reference police officer shall take initiatives to publicize the circular to members of his or her service. The correct application of this circular, however, requires a good knowledge of the phenomenon of discrimination and recognition of the various forms it can take. These two aspects are sometimes lacking in practice. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the training of reference officials. Several initiatives that contribute to the awareness-raising effort and to the better implementation of the circular are already under way, both with regard to the police and the prosecutor's office. The implementation of this circular is the subject of an evaluation by the College of Attorneys General. Based on the findings of this evaluation, we will examine the extent to which adaptations will need to be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers. It will be necessary to await the conclusions of the evaluation work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u10	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, we all got to know the Mercurius project, developed by the Justice and Mobility FPS, via the press last September. Its aim is to allow police officers to check in real time, during a roadside check, whether a motorist is under the threat of a deprivation of his right to drive. Several databases are therefore cross-checked to provide this updated information. In 2017, the justice system imposed more than 115,000 disqualifications from driving rights. Many, but not all, of the convicts issued their permits on the fact that the police would see only fire in the event of roadside checks. So, what evaluation have you made of this project over the past two years? Is a development of the Mercurius database envisaged in the short to medium term? If so, within what time frame and under what conditions? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u11	Mr Kir, the objective of the Mercurius project is to improve the enforcement of sentences. The continuation and implementation of this project remains a priority for the Justice FPS. In this context, an analysis of interconnected systems is under way. On the justice side, all the technical adaptations have already been made with a view to making the data available to the integrated police, for example, the revocation of the right to drive, the life ban on driving, the prohibition on driving under conditions, etc. The police component is under development in the Federal Police. It is therefore very difficult to carry out an evaluation of the system. In recent months, the federal police have worked hard to develop the communication channel linked to the FPS Justice database. Soon, the first tests will be carried out in order to control the quality of the test. The fact that the police do not yet have access to the FPS Justice Mercurirus data is not due to a timely failure to plan the necessary investments. On the other hand, it is a consequence of the terrorist attacks in Belgium. It was therefore necessary to reserve the capacity of IT experts to concentrate first on the search for solutions contributing to the fight against terrorism. However, the project remains a priority for the Federal Police. In close consultation with the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice will ensure that the Mercurius project continues to be a priority for the Federal Police. The Commission indicated that the project would be finalized in the first half of 2020. All integrated police units will then have access to FPS Justice data.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u12	Minister, hearing this message is essential. Indeed, the police must feel supported by the authorities. There is still work to be done at the computer level. While the fight against terrorism remains a top priority, knowing that the project is not abandoned, that it is a priority and will be evaluated and supported in the coming months is extremely important. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u13	Minister, we have received several converging, disturbing signals over the past few weeks. First of all, there are statements by John Demers, US Deputy Minister of Justice, responsible for national security issues, who was present in Brussels on Friday 22 November to alert the Belgian media and politicians about attempts at industrial espionage but also and above all about the danger of the collaboration between Proximus, Orange and the Chinese company Huawei for the development of 5G. At home, on 30 October, the president of the Confucius Institute of the VUB was refused his eight-year residence permit in Belgium and in the rest of the Schengen area. He was accused of recruiting Chinese intelligence informants from Chinese student and business communities in Belgium. This accusation is probably not the only echo of the Chinese intelligence services in Belgium. In total, the number of Chinese spies in Brussels would be estimated at 250. Just a few days ago, the newspaper Libération still mentioned another example of Chinese interference in Belgium: the surveillance of members of the Uighur Muslim minority, who are refugees in Europe, including Belgium. These persons are the subject of appeals from the Chinese Embassy. They are sometimes even invited to visit the Chinese embassy for false reasons and without informing the Chinese authorities of their contacts. I would therefore like to ask you a number of clarification questions. We saw other countries and other governments making strong decisions a few days ago. Australia has established a government-level working group with the Prime Minister to combat Chinese espionage in Australia. In Taiwan, it's the same thing. Therefore, is our government also actively following China's interference and attempts at espionage on Belgian soil? Do you confirm the figure of 250 Chinese agents in Brussels? Is it wrong? Are we counting more? What is Belgium's position on this presence and the interference that the US minister tells us is massive in Belgium? I come to this departure and to this ban on stay in Belgium for the president of the Confucius Institute of the VUB, Xinning Song. Do we have any information on other institutions that could also be involved in the recruitment of Chinese spies in Belgium? What is the Belgian Government's response? I wonder whether, in this connection, the Chinese ambassador to Belgium has been summoned to report to our country. What measures are in place by our intelligence services to protect Uighur community citizens more actively? They are likely subject to intimidation and threats in Belgium. Finally, what has the federal government put in place about the accusations of the US government that have been relayed in the press lately? I am, of course, thinking in particular about the 5G project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u14	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the Sûreté de l'Etat, a civilian intelligence service, is, like its military counterpart, the SGRS, competent to monitor activities related to espionage and interference in Belgian territory. Some foreign states, including China, are active in our territory. China has a large number of structures that enable it to disseminate the Communist Party's policy and maintain a positive image for an external audience. The Confucius Institutes are part of it. Moreover, since the Confucius Institutes belong to the architecture of the Chinese State, it is not excluded that they can act as relays for intelligence-related activities. It is therefore important that Belgian actors are aware of the links between the Confucius Institutes and the Chinese Communist Party, and that cooperation with the Confucius Institutes in Belgium is understood with the necessary caution. Chinese activities, like those of other states on Belgian soil, are the focus of our intelligence services. They are responsible for detecting these activities and for analysing the threat to Belgium. The information collected is then transmitted to the administrative and political authorities which decide on the follow-up to be given. At present, there is no specific threat to members of the Uighur community justifying the taking of protective measures. A complaint to the police and judicial authorities is, of course, always possible if a person is threatened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u15	Minister, I am somewhat surprised at this particularly short answer. While we can only welcome the positive image given to China through the work of the Confucius Institute and the learning of foreign languages, there is still a world of difference between language learning and the positive image of a country. Indeed, we must not forget the espionage carried out in our territory and the threats of interference by a third State with our sovereign State. I am therefore surprised that, unlike other countries such as Australia very recently, no more active measures are being taken to protect Chinese minorities. I have quoted the Uighur Muslim community that, according to people from this community, is indeed being threatened and intimidated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u16	Minister, I tabled this question on 8 November. That Friday, the Turkish Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu stated that Turkey would start sending IS fighters back to their country of origin from the Monday after 11 November. This report was not a surprise, because the previous months and weeks had already threatened the Turkish Government on several occasions. In the meantime, reality has caught up with us again in this dossier. After all, my first question to you at the beginning of November was whether Belgium would also be affected by the Turkish plan to send back IS fighters. In the meantime, we know the answer to that is yes. Two women have already been sent back. In the light of these new developments, I think my next questions are all the more pertinent. How many Belgian nationals would Turkey be able to extradite to our country? What are the modalities? How will the Belgian Government respond in the future to a request for extradition from Turkey? Has our country changed its position in the meantime due to recent developments on the ground in Syria, Iraq's refusal to try IS fighters and the continued pressure from the US and Turkey to retrieve Belgian nationals? Finally, during the hearings on the fate of Belgian children in the camps in Syria, the experts unanimously considered that the children should be brought back while the situation still permits. The European Union's Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Gilles de Kerchove, also takes this view. Mr Minister, what is still preventing the Belgian Government, especially in view of the unanimity among experts, from bringing these Belgian children back at last?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u17	Mr Minister, my question was put a little later. In the meantime, information has come in that has inspired me to the question I would like to ask now. A leading security source............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The escaped Belgian IS women, the ones we know of, had or have ties with Sharia4Belgium. According to this security source, they must have contacts with smugglers in order to smuggle them across the border with Turkey and also with the necessary funding. Their family members would be involved. My introduction was much in the conditional sense, hence the following questions. Is it true that there are indications that the escaped FTFs are being helped to return from Belgium, for example by providing financial assistance? Is there a criminal investigation or is this being initiated against those responsible for the possible provision of such assistance? What policy does the prosecution have in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u18	Mr Minister, previous colleagues have already explained the facts, so I can confine myself to the questions. There was some criticism from federal prosecutor Van Leeuw about the maximum prison sentences after correction. In that interview, I think he ignored the legislative initiatives that you took last legislative term and in which the Constitutional Court intervened. Is it true that the new Criminal Code, which was prepared by your cabinet, provides for an adjustment by means of new correctional main sentences, which can again impose ceilings of up to ten years? To what extent were other initiatives taken to ensure a sufficiently severe punishment of Syrian fighters and IS women pending the adoption of the Criminal Code? What are the conditions under which women are in detention? To what extent can these women have contact with other inmates? The last question is very important to me, and I am sure some of my colleagues will agree with it. What is the content of the deradicalisation programme set up in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u19	Madam President, Mr Soors, Mr De Roover and Mr Verherstraeten, the various questions show that there are still some misunderstandings about Turkey's attitude towards the European foreign fighters under their control. This isn't about extradition. It's about expulsion. These expulsions are administrative procedures based on unilateral Turkish decisions. Moreover, the Turkish position is not new. For several years, Turkey has been pointing out European FTFs to their country of origin. For this reason, a hotspot procedure was set up to ensure that persons with a Turkish expulsion order return in a controlled manner. This procedure has been used several times in recent years. This is a procedure which Belgium has installed in Turkey. Since this is always a unilateral Turkish decision, I cannot say to whom an expulsion order will apply. There are currently five Belgian FTFs in the hands of the Turkish authorities, the majority of which have been in the hands of the Turkish authorities for a year or more. It is not right to say that Iraq is refusing to bring European FTFs to justice, but there are important obstacles for Iraq and for Europe to do so. The discussion is still ongoing. At the moment, the Belgian Government prefers to prosecute the Belgian FTFs in the region and we continue to monitor the situation there closely. With regard to the situation of children, the position of the government is well known. We are in favour of the repatriation of children under 10 years of age. For children over 10 years of age, case-by-case repatriation should be considered. Almost all children currently in Syria are under 10 years of age. All Belgian orphans and unaccompanied minors were repatriated from the camps last June. However, the Kurdish authorities did not want to allow the repatriation of children whose mother was also present in the camp. Given the separation of powers, I cannot provide information on ongoing judicial investigations or on whether or not to provide financial assistance to FTFs who wish to return. The federal court does allow me to remind you that it always starts investigating where useful. The arrest of 15 October 2019 in the framework of a Belgian-French investigation of two men suspected of fundraising within the framework of terrorist financing is an example of this. As far as actual prison sentences are concerned, I would remind you that the problem lies not in the size of the sentence or in the number of judges, but in the general story of the Court of Assists. No one can say that I did not try to find a solution to this, but opinions in this House were too divided. One of them didn't want a jury at all, the others always wanted a jury. I would also point out that, despite the criticism of the penalty level, the basic penalty for participating in a terrorist group has proved particularly appropriate in the prosecution of FTFs and allows judges to pronounce a sentence of up to five years, where some of our European partners cannot even start prosecutions or condemn similar acts. Finally, I repeat that the law on various provisions, which was adopted just before the end of the previous legislature, created a new crime for decision-making within a terrorist group. That crime can be punished by 15 years in prison or 10 years after correction. As far as the prison regime is concerned, both women have been placed under a special security measure, the main purpose of which is, on the one hand, to restrict contacts with fellow prisoners and visitors and, on the other hand, to facilitate the observation period during which longer-term detention conditions are to be adapted to their judicial situation and to their personality. The deradicalisation officials of the Flemish Community will, of course, contact both women and see how they can best be accompanied. Both ladies are only just in detention and it is therefore too early to get a look at this. Moreover, the Directorate-General of the Prison Service plays a facilitating role and the content of the programme will be developed and completed by the Flemish Community services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your clarifications. I would like to hear you say that it is not a new position, that things are unchanged and that the discussions are still ongoing. I simply note that the situation on the ground is changing every day and that this reality is catching up with us every time. About a month ago, I heard you and other members of the government say that it was unlikely that Belgians would cross the Turkish border, which was so well guarded. A few weeks later it was different and a few weeks later we already have some Belgians back in our country. It seems to me more than necessary that the discussions that are still going on, countries and that there is a plan of action. Minister, I hear you say that there is a procedure for these children. In practice, I find that the children in question were not helped by this procedure. The procedure may exist on paper, but it does not provide solutions in practice. Five children have already died this year. I therefore hope that in the near future we deserve our security if we are to be able to make a connection, an approach that combines reality and procedures, and that we can finally come up with answers that resolve both issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I've missed some clarifications. Of course, you cannot provide an insight into the course of events, but I think you can answer yes or no without specifying whether or not there is a judicial inquiry. I seem to have missed that in your answer. The answer to the question of the policy pursued by the public prosecutor was also unclear. However, I am not asking for a special case, but for the general approach. So I'm still a little bit in the dark in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u22	Thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply. You were right to point out the legislative initiatives on assists, which could have dealt with certain criticisms in the media if they had been able to land in Parliament. I agree with the position you are expressing on behalf of the government, giving priority to prosecution in the region where that is possible, provided that I also wish to add this, but I am sure you agree with me that respect for the rights of defence is guaranteed. As far as children are concerned, I would like to say in a personal capacity that I would prefer to see the age of ten higher. Children are not responsible for their parents' behaviour, but vice versa. Mr Soors, I am not insensitive to what you say. There are, of course, many objections between laws and practices. In any case, I think that we should try to resolve this in a humane way. Mr President, I hope that, in cooperation with the respective Communities, these two cases can give rise to a deradicalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, a few years ago, Turkey had not informed us about the El Bakraoui case. In any case, I am pleased that we were informed in these cases, which seems to me to be relevant to our internal security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u23	Madam President, Minister, by notification of 6 November, the municipalities of Ganshoren, Koekelberg and Berchem-Sainte-Agathe have become aware of the fact that the future justice of peace of Ganshoren, created by royal decree of 7 April 2019, will be located in Laeken, specifically at 89 Fransman Street in Laeken. If the division of the canton of Jette should enable a faster and more efficient justice service to be offered to the citizens of the three municipalities concerned, the location of the new justice of peace called Ganshoren seems inappropriate. Indeed, justice of the peace offers a service of proximity that must be accessible to citizens. It concerns, in the light of articles 590 and 591 of the Judicial Code, essentially small-scale disputes, matters of lease, condominium, all of which are eminently humane matters where the proximity aspect is essential to a proper resolution of the dispute. Similarly, it is aimed at sometimes less affluent audiences whose difficulties of access to justice are already known today. However, the displacement of the justice system in Laeken leads, with it, to an extension of the distances to be travelled and to a break in public transport charges, which then do not exist, as many elements which do not contribute to the objective of a justice system of proximity and therefore more accessible. Moreover, in Brussels, this would be the only justice of the peace that would not be physically located in the territory of the communes with which it has to deal. That would be a first! Finally, in addition to these location issues, the issue of information is essential. Proper information is needed for the population, in order to avoid systematically presenting themselves at the registry of the justice of peace in Jette before being sent back, since last Monday, to another place with the risks of renunciation that this entails. Therefore, Minister, I ask you the following questions. How did you decide to set up Ganshoren's future Peace Justice in Laeken? Is the location of Fransman Street temporary or permanent? Has the Régie des Bâtiments carried out any search for more suitable locations in the territory of one of the three communes? Why not first contact the municipalities concerned to determine whether office space was available to accommodate such infrastructure? Is information to the public planned or has it already taken place? If so, by which channel? What about the cases brought before the Jette justice system which have not yet been the subject of an initial fixing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u24	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, for your full information, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the bill on the reform of the judicial cantons, amending the law of 15 June 1935 on the use of languages in judicial matters, which led to the law of 25 December 2017, did not provide for the establishment of the judicial canton of Ganshoren. In the project submitted, the communes of Ganshoren, Jette and Koekelberg were indeed part of the justice of peace of Jette, as was already the case in the past. Parliamentary debates led to the creation of Ganshoren Township, composed of the municipalities of Ganshoren, Koekelberg and Berchem-Sainte-Agathe. The justification for this amendment was as follows: Jette is the most important canton and the distribution of the workload must in the first place relieve those who are overburdened. The entry into force of the provisions of the Act of 25 December 2017 has been fixed by several royal decrees. The Royal Decree of 7 April 2019 fixes this entry into force for the canton of Ganshoren on 1 December 2019. The Royal Decree of 23 October 2019 provisionally moves, from 1 December 2019, the seat of the justice of peace in the canton of Ganshoren to the seat of the third canton of Brussels, namely in Laeken. The Belgian Moniteur constitutes, for Ganshoren's justice of peace as for the other cantons, the normal channel through which the reform is published. The reform of the Brussels peace justice needs to be further finalized. The idea is to work in the future via poles where the cantons will be preserved, but which will allow the transplants to cooperate. In the meantime, a realistic solution has been sought. In a short period of time, it was decided to temporarily house the justice of peace in Laeken, pending a final decision on another site. The choice of Laeken was made in consultation with the competent heads of the Brussels Peace Justice Corps, and is based on the fact that Laeken is the best provisional accommodation solution and offers good accessibility for litigants. With regard to your last question, I can confirm that the law of 25 December 2017 contains a series of transitional provisions on this subject. Cases initiated before 1 December 2019 within the Jette justice system continue to depend on it, even if the place that established territorial jurisdiction is now within the jurisdiction of another jurisdiction. With regard to these cases, the justice of the peace may carry out all the necessary acts, even if he must, in order to do so, go to the jurisdiction of another jurisdiction. I hope I have given you a satisfactory insight into this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. It was for this reason that I considered that the division of the canton of Jette was something positive, given the workload. I hear this unfortunate move is temporary. A solution could have been found with the assistance of the three municipalities concerned so that one of them could accommodate the premises. Thus, when the justice of peace in the third canton of Brussels, which is itself located on Rue Fransman, had to be renovated, premises were also found in the territory of Laeken to temporarily re-establish it. In addition, fears arose as a result of rumours that the final implantation would be even further away, since it would be on the side of Neder-over-Hembeek. I had hoped for an answer to that, but you remained silent. For the rest, you are entirely correct with regard to the cases already under consideration. However, my question was not about these, but about those that were simply introduced. Let us admit that a request was submitted last Friday, but without having been the subject of a first fixation. What fate will be reserved for him? This issue is not resolved by the provisional provisions of the Act. This is why one may wonder whether these cases are being prosecuted in Jette or whether they are automatically transferred to Ganshoren Township. I have not heard an answer on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u26	Madam President, I have a practical question. The questions are grouped together on the subject and, given the title, I understand the mistake, but my second question also relates to the problems of IS mothers and children. I should have just responded a little faster, but I would like to know if colleagues can live with me asking that question in line with the previous package?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u27	In principle, that question is indeed part of that. If my fellow Members have no objection, I should like to put that question to you now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u28	Minister, the law on youth protection allows parents to be partially or completely deprived of parental authority if they endanger the health, safety or morality of the child through poor treatment, abuse of authority, apparently bad behaviour or serious negligence. That is what Article 32 of the Youth Protection Act states. Disappointment is pronounced by the juvenile court at the request of the prosecution. I suspect that the transfer of children to an area where there is a violent conflict and where a terrorist organisation is setting up an Islamic caliphate, with all the relevant rules that go directly against human rights, can be qualified, without being too creative, as putting the child at risk. First of all, is the Public Prosecutor investigating the way in which IS fighters can be removed from their parental authority, so that their children can be taken care of in Belgium without the parents being able to claim a residence allowance in Belgium through their parental authority? Secondly, how many children could this slope apply? Thirdly, has there been any consultation or consultation with the College of Attorneys General to examine the possibilities of that thought trail and to develop a policy around it? Finally, some children of IS fighters have already returned and are currently in Belgium. Are steps being taken to secure them and to see if their parents can be relieved of parental authority if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u29	Mr De Roover, first of all, I would like to stress that the procedure of expulsion from parental authority, laid down in the Youth Protection Act of 1965, is a measure of protection against minor children, which is pronounced by the Juvenile Court. It is not an additional penalty or measure against parents who have been convicted of crimes. The procedure can therefore only serve the best interests of the child and serve no other finality. There are currently no general directives of protection policy for the public prosecutors concerning the initiation or non-starting of the parental deprivation procedure in the context outlined. Each case is examined separately by the competent youth parquet, using the best interests of the child as an essential criterion. If it is appropriate to initiate such a procedure, a social inquiry will first and foremost be ordered. The College of Attorneys General informed me that at present it has no knowledge of any specific procedures of expulsion from parental authority in that context.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u30	Minister, I fully agree with the first part of your reply. The procedure is aimed at protecting children. That's just the essence. It is difficult to say that these children are given the protection they deserve because of their parents' behaviour. It seems to me that we are talking here about a situation in which Article 32 of the Youth Protection Act provides. Can I say how surprised I am that there are no procedures in progress? You will agree with me that, at the moment, parents are undoubtedly being evicted from their parental authority in situations which may be less dangerous to the child than those I am talking about. I think it is high time that the prosecution gave more priority to this, indeed in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u31	Minister, for the first time, casinos are making more money from their online activities than from their casinos themselves. According to the spokesperson of the Gaming Commission, there is no royal decision that contains the rules for online gambling, which means that there are no checks on the authorised online sites and therefore no fines can be imposed on infringements. Is it true, Minister, that the Gaming Commission cannot exercise control or impose fines? If so, what measures will you take to ensure that the Gaming Commission can take action in the event of infringements? If not, what measures will you take to ensure that checks can be carried out and administrative penalties imposed? What tools does the Gaming Commission currently have in its hands to take action against infringements pending a KB?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u32	The implementation of controls requires a regulated framework within which the exploitation of games of chance must take place. Until recently, that framework was non-existent for the licensed gambling sites. It is only by taking the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 on the conditions for the exploitation of games of chance and betting through information society instruments that we were able to partially change this. Some articles in the KB require additional initiatives from the Gaming Commission in order to achieve their practical impact. The budgetary dossiers for launching these initiatives were submitted. They obtained the green light from the Finance Inspector and were already partially approved by the Council of Ministers of 8 November 2019. The concrete impact is planned for the first half of 2020. The Staff Plan of the Gaming Commission provides for the recruitment of some specialised profiles. The recruitment procedures for this are ongoing. The Gaming Commission controls the administrative obligations imposed on operators. A server visit, prior to the granting of the licence, allows verification of compliance with the minimum technical requirements already imposed. Operators who do not comply with the obligations cannot obtain an additional licence. All this applies only to licensed gambling sites. In the last five years, the Gaming Commission has also made 96 findings of prohibited websites.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. If I understand correctly, there is a KB, but it is up to the Gaming Commission to take further action and work it out. Her statement that there is no KB would be strange. It is particularly important that checks and sanctions are carried out for online gambling sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u34	Minister, once again I have a number of questions about games of chance, because it remains topical. In a judgment of 2017 and two judgments of 2018, the Constitutional Court ruled that there is a difference in treatment between the offer of games of chance and bets in the real world and the offer in the online world, which is contrary to the principle of equality laid down in Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. In particular, the Court held that, in so far as it does not prohibit the cumulation of different additional licences of different classes for the exploitation of games of chance and betting by one and the same domain name and the associated URLs, the law of 7 May 1999 infringes Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. Against Betway, the sponsor of the Belgian Cup, a procedure was initiated at the beginning of January this year, partly because the company accumulated permits. According to the newspaper De Tijd, the Council of State in August also decided that Betway's permits should be destroyed. However, at the end of October, the Gaming Commission again granted a licence to Betway. I have the following questions, Minister. What was the outcome of the sanction procedure against Betway? On what basis did the Gaming Commission decide to grant another permit to Betway? How does Betway's new licence relate to the Council of State's recent ruling? The Constitutional Court has repeatedly ruled that the cumulation is prohibited. However, almost all operators continue to combine different licenses online. What is your view on the legality of the cumulation of licences in the light of the various rulings of the Constitutional Court on this matter? Following the rulings of the Constitutional Court, has the Gaming Commission acted against websites that violate the rules on cumulation? If so, how often and with what effect? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u35	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, the Gaming Commission launched a sanction procedure against Betway for Class E licence on 23 January 2019. That procedure is still ongoing. The Gaming Commission has been waiting for investigations from the public prosecutor, the CFI and the Specialised Financial Fraud Service of the FPS Finance, but these investigations have yielded nothing. The state of Betway will be reviewed when the new casino permit for the city of Brussels is granted, at the latest next year. The Gaming Commission decided to grant another license A+ and FA+ to Casinos Austria International Belgium SA. The MAH E, Prima Networks Spain PLC, shall provide support services for the operation of the additional authorisations. Since there are now two different URLs for the two additional licenses, in particular a separate URL for casino games and a URL for bets, the Gaming Commission ruled that there is no longer an online accumulation. From the judgment of the Court of Justice 129/2017 and No. 108/2018 of the Constitutional Court shows that it is not pertinent to allow the cumulation of permits of different classes on the same website using a unique domain name and associated unique URL. This would run counter to the legislator's objective of creating a threshold for the player through the prohibition of such cumulation and thus dissuade the player from playing. The Constitutional Court, in its judgment No. 108/2018 clearly indicated what is the result of the modulated destruction pronounced there. The Gaming Commission cannot grant different additional licences of different classes, such as A+, B+ and F1+, for the exploitation of games of chance and of betting via one and the same domain name and the associated URLs. In the present case, there are two URLs, which means that the Gaming Commission could grant the licence. The Gaming Commission is currently examining the dossiers which are the subject of proceedings before the Council of State. It ensures that the case law of the Constitutional Court is respected and that several authorisations can only be granted when the domain names and URLs are different.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for that very quick answer. I think it is indeed important for the Gaming Commission to comply with rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Council of State, which should be done in a sound manner. In the past we have sometimes seen some problems in this area. You have now given the explanation and argumentation. In any case, I will follow up on this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u37	Minister, I have some disturbing reports about the operation of the prevention service of the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions. There are only four prevention advisors active on the Dutch language side today. It goes without saying that this creates an additional workload for these employees, while the service needs to be reduced and the prevention service cannot function properly. Moreover, there are serious problems with the payment of travel allowances. Although prevention advisers have to serve more and more prisons, the government is unable to pay the relocation fees. All this does not improve the workings and reputation of the Justice Department, while valuable staff do not feel appreciated. Firstly, today there are only four consultants at the prevention service. This creates additional workload and reduced service provision. Do you want to take action to remedy that situation? If so, what is the action and by when do you want to do so? If not, why not? Secondly, several prevention advisers have been waiting for months to pay the travel allowances. What's the reason for this? When will the fees be paid? How do you intend to ensure that the fees are paid correctly and in good time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u38	Mr Van Hecke, six prevention advisers are currently employed on the Dutch-speaking side. Two of them are unfortunately on long-term sick leave. So there's four left. This year, a pre-retirement prevention consultant has taken leave and another is now working as a prevention consultant in the State Safety Department. At the moment, the tasks of the two ill prevention advisers are distributed among the available prevention advisers. On the French side there are seven prevention advisers. Two measures were taken. Firstly, the internal service for prevention and protection at work is being restructured by bringing together the prevention advisers of DG EPI, DG RO and the central administration within certain geographical areas. In this way, a better redistribution of work among colleagues is possible. The reorganisation is ongoing and is accompanied by an upgrade of the function. The second action concerns the recruitment of new prevention advisers internally to the Justice Department. A first call in February 2019 resulted in two laureates, but they refused their proposed post. A second call was launched in July 2019, but was temporarily suspended in order to clarify, inter alia, the posts to be filled in and the career. The procedure will be continued shortly. Colleagues, to all the whining about the lack of staff, which I am used to hearing, it is important to stress that this is usually not due to the fact that we are not looking for the staff, but to the fact that we are not finding them. This is a real problem for the Kingdom of Belgium, with which the next Minister of Justice will also have to deal. We're doing everything we can. At least one quarter to one third of all vacancies must be republished. With regard to mileage allowances, an application for an mileage quota shall be made at the beginning of each year, based on the movements of the previous year. This application is often not fully validated, so an additional demand has to be addressed to the Treasury Inspectorate in the course of the year in order to increase the quota. That will cause a certain delay. The payment of the fees is always delayed by a few months at the beginning of the year. I asked my administration to avoid that. She has assured me that the late payments are all in order now. I also asked my administration to better motivate the application for the quota and to speed up the follow-up of payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u39	Mr. Secretary, I'm not asking questions to complain. In any case, I understand that there is a problem. It may happen that there are insufficient candidates for the vacancies and that the vacancies cannot be filled. Then we must try to make the best of it. In any case, there are problems on the ground. The workload is high for a small number of people. We need to be aware of this and we need to do what is necessary. These are people who need to take on additional tasks, who need to do much more prisons, who need to make longer journeys, because they are working for colleagues. If that is combined with late payments, which they sometimes have to wait for months, then that is not motivating either. You said you insisted on correct and punctual payment. If that could happen as soon as possible, it would eliminate some resentment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u40	Minister, by law of 5 May 2019 laying down various provisions, many provisions were adapted to legal experts, sworn translators and interpreters. Articles 28 and 29 of the Law of 10 April 2014 were also extended. They now require all experts, translators and interpreters who comply with the transitional arrangements to take the oath within six months of its entry into force. This means that by 27 December at the latest more than two thousand translators and interpreters and more experts will have to take the oath. They will then receive an official provisional ID card. However, it seems that the necessary implementing decisions have not yet been published, so it is far from certain that this can be done carefully. In addition, there are potential risks to safety arising from an extension. Already in 2018, the professional association sued that those who were provisionally included were not or not recently screened for safety. It is unclear whether this will happen with this enlargement. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the necessary implementing decisions? What implementing decisions are still to be taken? How come they haven't been published yet? By when will this happen? Secondly, in the past, the professional association has been suing all the safety risks of a lack of screening. Will experts, translators and interpreters who receive a provisional ID card be screened for security prior to their oath? Will they be subject to a moral inquiry? Will it be checked if they are known for criminal offences in the National Police Database? If these tests are not carried out, how do you guarantee safety? Thirdly, will all these dossiers be examined by the Acceptance Committee before 28 December 2019? If so, how do you guarantee that this is done with due care? If not, what are the consequences and when will this happen? Finally, on 1 January, the Law of 29 March 2019 will enter into force, allowing police and inspection services to make progress for experts, translators and interpreters. However, the police cannot consult the national register for the time being and would not even have access to the register that now exists within the FPS Justice Department. How can this be consistent with appointments by the police forces? How and by when do you intend to solve that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u41	Mr Van Hecke, the necessary implementing decisions for the ID cards, permanent training, public access to the register and the anonymous identification number are in full preparation. Requests for opinions are ongoing and consultations are being held with the representatives of the sector. The decisions will be finalised in the first trimester of 2020. For all persons applying for registration in the register after the entry into force on 29 June 2019 of the Law of 5 May 2019, a morality inquiry was requested. Persons already entered in the provisional register before the entry into force of the new law may take the oath if they comply with Article 555/8, 1°, 2° and 3° of the Civil Code and therefore have no convictions in accordance with Article 558/8, 2°. As Article 555/7 applies only to the definitive registration and not to the provisional registration of those persons, the last sentence of the third paragraph of Article 28, as introduced by Article 66 of the Law of 5 May 2019, should be read as applicable only to a final registration as such. Those persons shall comply with all the conditions for final registration, including the morality review, by 1 December 2021 at the latest. As indicated, the implementing decision for the ID card has not yet been finalised. The persons who take the oath before the end of December will therefore not receive this card. The provisional entry in the national register shall not be subject to the intervention of the acceptance committee. In addition to the complaints, it will only deal with final applications for registration in the register and their renewal. Already, the Committee's opinion on new applications for registration of persons who were not working before December 2016 is being called upon. Article 555/9 of the Code provides that sworn translators, interpreters and translators are at the disposal of the authorities, including the police. The ICT services of the Justice and Police Department are working hard on a technical solution, ensuring both access to the register and access management of police officers, and the possibility of conducting a targeted search with the desired language and regional availability. This access should be operational throughout the country by the end of March 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u42	Minister, it is of course very nice for the House to be able to say at the end of the legislative term how many draft laws and proposals have been adopted, but they still need to be put into effect. I have the impression that this is a bit disappointing in a number of areas. This is also an example of this. The implementing acts necessary are not ready. That'll be before the first trimester. The link needed by the police will also be by spring 2020. It is important not only for the laws to be passed, but also for the necessary energy to be invested in the timely implementation through royal or ministerial decisions. I'll follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u43	Mr Van Hecke, I am counting on you to follow this up in the next parliamentary term, and I have no doubt of that, in whatever capacity. This morning, the Royal Decree on Minimum Services appeared. We've been negotiating the whole vacation. You hear how hard it is to get this digested on the premises.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u44	Minister, a few weeks ago, the Gaming Commission published its annual report. This shows that the Gaming Commission has not imposed fines on players or operators online in recent years. In De Standaard the Gaming Commission responded that there is no KB that quotes "the rules for online gambling" and that explains why there are no controls. However, rules do exist for online gambling. In addition, the annual report contains a number of other notable figures and statements. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. The Gaming Commission writes that changes were made to the allocation of domain names and URLs from gambling websites following judgments of the Constitutional Court. How does the Gaming Commission interpret those judgments of the Constitutional Court? Is online cumulation of permits allowed according to the Gaming Commission? What are the adjustments and does the Gaming Commission monitor compliance with them? The list of excluded players shows significant increases in voluntary exclusions, exclusions at the request of a third party and judicial decisions. What are the reasons for this increase? What is the response of the Gaming Commission to the rise? The SOS GAMES helpline received 4,390 calls in 2018. How does that relate to the number of calls made in recent years? What action is being taken on these calls? Since 2015, the number of administrative sanctions has fallen dramatically. In 2015, 177 administrative fines were imposed, in 2016 85 and in 2018 only 15. Is the reduction in the number of administrative fines related to a decrease in the number of controls or is it a policy choice? What's the reason for that? According to the Gaming Commission, there is no regulation for online gambling. However, a KB on online gambling was adopted on 25 October 2018 and the legislation on gambling also applies to online gambling. What is your view of the Gaming Commission's position on this matter? How do you intend to ensure that existing legislation is enforced? According to the report, since 2015, there have been no D training courses for gaming equipment personnel. How is it ensured that staff in gaming facilities have the right competences? According to the annual report, there was a large increase in income from bingo machines from 2016 to 2017, from 141 million euros to 221 million euros. What's the cause of that? In view of this increase, are bingo devices subject to better and stricter controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u45	Mr Van Hecke, the exact scope of the judgment is not clearly defined, since the Court itself has defined the situation to be assessed in different ways. However, the Gaming Commission imposed an additional permit condition on all additional licence holders whose URLs are linked to the same domain name. The Gaming Commission shall be entitled to initiate a sanction procedure for administrative infringements of the Gaming Act if the additional permit conditions are not implemented. Following the destruction of additional permits by the Council of State this year, the licence holders concerned submitted new applications with separate URLs. The Gaming Commission notes that both problem players and stakeholders of problem players become more familiar with the exclusion system. In addition, it has recently been reported on the website that exclusions can also be transmitted electronically. In 2017, there was an information day for directors, informing them that they can apply for exclusion from the Gaming Commission themselves. Many directors were not aware of this, which subsequently led to an increase in the number of judicial decisions. In 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, calls were received by the Helpline 3.741, 3.882, 4.269 and 4.390 respectively. So the number is increasing. The calls are answered 24 hours a day and 7 days a week by a bilingual call centre. That call centre provides useful information on exclusion applications and aid associations. The reduction in the number of administrative fines is not a policy choice and does not say anything about the number of controls. One control file may give rise to multiple sanction files, including in the operation of illegal gambling, in which both the operator and the affected players are subject to a sanction dossier. The large number of administrative fines in 2015, for example, should be interpreted accordingly. In 2015, 162 players who participated in gambling on one illegal website received an administrative fine. As far as the staff of the Gaming Commission is concerned, I can tell you that new people have recently been recruited and that different recruitment procedures are still ongoing. A number of articles from the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 require additional initiatives in order to realise their practical impact. The concrete impact is planned in the first half of 2020. At present, the Gaming Commission no longer organises physical training with a view to obtaining a permit D. The former e-learning system remains open to everyone as a guest. In the meantime, the criminal record of the applicant is still being checked. In 2018, for example, three licence applications were refused. Income was previously established on the basis of statements. Since several operators did not answer the questions, the necessary information was retrieved from the data sent daily to the computer servers of the Game Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u46	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the detailed answer. The reduction in administrative sanctions remains remarkable. You explain that in 2015 of the 177 findings 162 were related to one specific dossier. That could be an explanation. Nevertheless, it seems different. In 2016, there were 85 findings. In 2018 there were again 15. So there seems to be a decrease. You probably did not answer the last question about the large increase in income from bingo machines from EUR 141 million to EUR 221 million. Did you receive an answer from the Gaming Commission to that question? [[No.]] In that case, I will repeat that question at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u47	Mrs. Farih is absent and hasn't said a word. Her question No. 55001659C therefore lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u48	Minister, in 2018, African swine fever was detected in wild boars in the south of the country. This forced a large number of livestock farms within a defined infected zone to slaughter pigs with a view to reducing potential infections and to preventing them. The problem still exists, which means that many companies face an export ban, including those which are not in the infected zone. An interesting fact is that African swine fever was also found in Eastern Europe and that Belgium in Western Europe is a lonely exception, except Sardinia, which, however, is a separate fireplace. Therefore, the suspicion was already expressed that Belgian infections would originate from illegal imports of Eastern European wild boars. That seems to be a matter for the Justice Department to investigate, even if only to know who the affected farms can claim the damage. Has there been a criminal investigation into the origin or source of African swine fever in Belgium? Why is that, or why not? If an investigation is already carried out, which court is carrying out the investigation? What's the status? Was contact with Eastern European countries established as part of the investigation? Do you intend to use your right of insertion to still order a criminal investigation, if no investigation is ongoing? Why is that, or why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u49	Mrs Gijbels, the Attorney General of Liège confirmed to me that a judicial inquiry was opened at the end of 2018 after the facts in the district of Luxembourg. Given the secret of the ongoing investigation, no further information could be communicated to me. Since criminal proceedings have already been instituted, a positive injunction of mine is without subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u50	Minister, it is reassuring that there is an effective investigation going on. We must not forget that it does indeed have a very large impact, including the export ban, especially on the Flemish pig farmers. I asked Minister Ducarme a question last week about the impact of the export ban, which would be about half a billion. We must therefore keep a close eye on the issue and ensure that we learn from it. If we know the cause, we will be able to prevent such facts from repeating themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u51	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55001748C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u52	Minister, in his latest report, the Federal Ombudsman is devastating for the practice of nude search in our prisons. There are rules for nude search by different judgments, but they are systematically violated. In all establishments nude searches seem to still take place systematically. In addition, there are certain practices which involve nude searches, but which are not qualified, and sometimes the decision to fouille is not taken by the management, despite the directives. Moreover, a decision on nude foam must always be served on the prisoner. That too is not consistent. Finally, most of those decisions are stereotyped. In short, everything is manifestly illegal and involves a risk of abuse and humiliation of the prisoner. Firstly, were you aware of the existing illegal practices in our prisons? If so, why didn't you take action against it? If not, since when have you been informed and what have you been doing since then? Secondly, the Ombudsman asks that all systematic nude searches stop immediately. Can you guarantee that? Thirdly, how do you intend to ensure that nude searches take place in the future in a legal way? What measures will you take and when will you take? How will you monitor compliance with these legal provisions? Fourthly and finally, the Ombudsman makes a number of recommendations in his report. What is your view on these recommendations? What recommendations do you want or do not want to have implemented and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u53	Minister, on November 25, 2019, we were receiving a disturbing investigation report from the Federal Ombudsman into the way detainees are searched naked in Belgian prisons. All prisons carry out systematic strip searches, which are prohibited by law. A large number of nude searches are carried out without any prior authorization. Poorly experienced by detainees, as humiliating, these searches also increase the risk of tensions in prison. Prisons do not consider whether these searches are really necessary and do not take into account the profile of inmates. Systematic nude searches expose inmates to a real risk of degrading treatment and sometimes reach an intolerable degree of humiliation. For example, in some prisons, inmates in the workplace undergo several nude searches per day. These findings amount to serious violations of article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is imperative that an inmate's naked search remains an exception. In its response, the Directorate-General of Prisons does not question the findings of the Federal Ombudsman. It is also clear that guards and workers cannot be held responsible for deficiencies in protocols. The 35 prisons are part of the General Directorate of Penitentiaries of the FPS Justice under your authority. For these reasons, may I ask you, Minister, when is the meeting between the regional directorates scheduled to assess and revise the excavation plans of the establishments within their jurisdiction? Will you attend personally? What monitoring and monitoring tools do you think are in place? What agenda has been planned to enable each regional directorate to identify the obstacles to the abandonment of systematic nude excavations such as inadequacies in infrastructure, and to follow up on these situations, in particular with the Régie des Bâtiments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u54	Mrs. Rohonyi is on her way. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u55	Colleagues, Article 108 (2) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 empowers the Director to have a detainee search the body under certain conditions. In accordance with Paragraph 3, the search must not be pitiful and must respect the dignity of the prisoner. In practice, the prison director who imposes a search on the body is confronted with three important aspects. The decision to search the body should usually be made within a particularly short period of time. The need for search on the body should be adequately justified. Furthermore, not all prisons have the ideal infrastructure to carry out this search in all discretion. The Federal Ombudsman's report is based on research data from 2016. Only the information from the Aarlen prison dates back to 2017. The Directorate-General of the Prison Service has been in contact with the Ombudsman since 2016 and has since taken initiatives to further individualise the motivation of the search on the body. It also monitors the correct execution of the search in all prisons. From a more general point of view, workshops were also held with the prison directorates on the conformity of their decisions with the law on the basis of the case law relating to those within their sphere of competence. With regard to the execution of the searches and respect for the dignity of the detainees subject to them, appropriate instructions were further communicated to prisons in 2017. They are mainly based on the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court and contain an annex dealing specifically with the individual motivation for excluding systematic searches. As early as 2016, therefore, the concerns of the federal Ombudsman were immediately addressed. Together with my administration, I continue to focus on a legally-compliant execution of the prison sentence. Additional initiatives, based inter alia on the provisions of the Law of 23 March 2019 on the organisation of penitentiary services and the status of penitentiary staff, are currently being prepared. I also refer to the establishment of an inspection service and the drafting of a code of ethics in the penitentiary context. The recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman to delegate the decision to allow searches on the body to certain prison staff is difficult for me. There is a fear that delegation might increase the number of complaints and that the Director will go even further after the facts, which the Ombudsman is trying to avoid. From this point of view, I find this recommendation somewhat contradictory to the Ombudsman's comment on body searches in general. The other recommendations can be accepted and the penitentiary administration will therefore develop a strategy to translate them into practice. Amendments to the law of principles do not appear to be immediately necessary, as collective letter No. 141 of 30 January 2017, entitled "Flood search - body search - search of the residence area", contains instructions sufficiently clear to control the way in which searches are to be carried out. The individualized motivations of the decision to conduct one are already included in the law. To this end, Article 108(3), which explicitly refers to individual instructions, and Article 8(1), which imposes a general obligation to give reasons for all decisions taken under this Law, must be read together. With regard to the importance of training, I would like to stress the crucial role given to this in various provisions of the Act of 23 March 2019 concerning the organisation of prison services and the status of prison staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that new initiatives have been taken in the meantime, both in the field and in legislation. I hope that these initiatives will quickly translate into results. I understand the difficult context in which decisions have to be taken, for example the short-term. One argument I often hear on the premises is the importance of keeping drugs outside the prison walls. I hope that a reconciled practice can be found, both to improve conditions and to prevent degrading treatment of prisoners and to improve the credibility of our penitentiary system. That's the bet. The credibility will determine whether a prisoner leaves the prison walls better or worse. I will therefore continue to follow this up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. We believe that, for both prison officers and detainees, it is essential to establish a prison system that does not violate the most basic rights of every human being. If I understand your answer correctly, you think that the existing texts and the training that is being delivered are sufficient. However, since this incident, I have asked you what steps have been taken in practice to remedy this situation. Perhaps I misheard or misunderstood, but I did not hear anything concrete about it. If your answer is limited to considering that existing legislation and training are sufficient, then I wonder how such abuses can occur. I therefore find it unsatisfactory with regard to the question I have put to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u58	Mrs Rohonyi, I give you the floor for your reply. I don't know if you've heard the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u59	Madam President, this morning I asked the committee secretary to warn me when this point was being raised. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. So I'm pretty disappointed. Minister, thank you for your answer. For what I have heard, I note that some recommendations will be followed. I don't know anything about those who wouldn't. The 2019 law provided for certain things with regard to training. There is no doubt that there is a need to assess the application of this law. It is recent and it seems to me that we have not had time to provide training. The overwhelming report of the federal mediator attests to this. Enforcement is a problem. As well as the progress of the search in our prisons. I insisted in my question that you received about the need for an audit as the Ombudsman's report is based on a survey conducted on the basis of the situation of twelve establishments. It would be interesting to see what is happening in all of our institutions. The law also provides that the body search may only take place in a closed space and must be carried out by at least two staff members of the same sex as the detainee. In fact, that is not the case. We need to be able to think in a global way. It had been discussed in the context of the pot-pourri IV law, on the simple avoidance of this search naked. We can arrange a search first at the bottom, then at the top of the body. To do so would be less intrusive to privacy and less humiliating. Minister, we will have to ask you again about this issue because in terms of respect for physical integrity, the question remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u60	Madam President, on the agenda. I still have 18 questions to answer. Members are present in large numbers. Since I have a meeting with a UN Ambassador on trafficking in human beings at 5 p.m., I must leave Parliament at 4.50 p.m. We have three possibilities. Either you read as fast as I do, or you turn some of the questions into written questions, or I don't answer some of the questions and we postpone them to next week. I will continue with a high rhythm, but you may choose other solutions if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u61	Madam President, I would like to be in favour of the Minister's agenda. My questions may be translated into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u62	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55001857C, 5500187C, 5500193C, 5500193C and 5500193C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u63	Madam President, I will keep my questions. I would like to take this opportunity to make my plea once again, and I will continue to do so. We use a lot of the Minister's time to read out our questions. Otherwise, they won't get in the report. We must do something about this so that we do not abuse the Minister's agenda and still get a detailed reply from the Minister, as it should be. Half the time goes by. I will repeat this on every occasion. I am opting for the Minister's last option, which is to finish the agenda in a reasonable way and move the rest to next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u64	Mr Crombez, as I have already said, only what is spoken orally in the report comes. You can always bring this up in the Conference of Presidents and then you will have to amend the Rules of Procedure. I can now only do what is prescribed at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u65	At the end of November, Minister, the press reported on the illegal activities of the Rwandan intelligence services on our territory. You stated earlier in the Committee on Justice on 16 October that you are aware of this. These are threats, intimidation, pressure and hacking of all those who are considered to be opponents of the regime. A ministerial directive has been in place since 2016 which regulates the contacts of our intelligence services, the ADIV and State Security, with foreign services. Among other things, the nature of the regime and its democratic content would be criteria. I have two questions on this, Minister. Is there a cooperation agreement between State Security or ADIV and an Rwandan intelligence service? Can you make the content of the ministerial directive governing such contacts public? If not, why not? Can the ministerial directive be made available to Parliament on a confidential basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u66	Minister, I will not challenge you to repeat the same question translated into French. I will also confine myself to trying to understand whether there is a cooperation agreement between the Sûreté de l'Etat, the SGRS or other security or intelligence services in Belgium, and an intelligence service in Rwanda. On 16 October, you confirmed here in the Justice Committee that Rwandan intelligence was active in our territory and was trying mainly to weaken what was perceived as a potential political threat from the Rwandan opposition in Belgium. I would add to what my colleague Wouter De Vriendt has already said that the Rwandan embassy has not really denied. On the contrary, it attempted to justify, through a press release, the threat posed by certain dissidents and opponents of Paul Kagame's government from Belgium. I wonder if there is a cooperation agreement between the Belgian and Rwandan intelligence services. I also wonder whether these agreements are signed with other countries. If so, what constraints does Belgium have to comply with in order to be able to sign this type of agreement in the field of intelligence? I am thinking, for example, of respect for human rights and respect for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u67	Unfortunately, I am not in a position to answer all your questions. The nature of the Sûreté's relations with specific foreign services and the existence of possible cooperation agreements are classified information. The same applies to the circular governing this type of contact. It cannot therefore be made public or made available to Parliament. The purpose of the directive in question is to implement the law on intelligence services and to define the international relations of Belgian intelligence services with homologous foreign services, both in their policies and in their management. The procedure and methodology and the directive that determine them were adopted by the National Security Council on 30 September 2016. The Directive also responds to the recommendations of the Committee I. The Directive defines the mechanism used by the State Security and ADIV, civil and military security, to object in a structured manner to the choice of international partners, to determine the degree of cooperation and to evaluate cooperation on a regular basis. The Security of the State shall not conclude agreements which could restrict the exercise of its legal powers or impede their implementation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u68	Minister, apart from the fact that a lot of information seems to have been classified, I would like to ask you how the government deals with the conclusion of cooperation agreements with countries where there is a problem with democracy and respect for human rights. To what extent do we allow foreign intelligence services on our territory and to what extent do we cooperate with them when there is a problem of democracy or human rights? Perhaps you could say something about that in general terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u69	Minister, thank you for that answer. I can understand, of course, that the information that there is a cooperation agreement between the Belgian and Rwandan intelligence services is, in itself, classified. Where I have less understanding, it is for the classified nature of the government directive that governs this type of agreement. It would seem to me legitimate for such a directive to be accessible to Parliament. I understand, of course, that Belgium and our Belgian intelligence services can sign cooperation agreements with countries such as France, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Now that is something else, when it comes to judicial proceedings against certain diplomats from foreign countries and when it comes to intimidation, espionage, interference by foreign forces. In this case, in the question of Rwanda, these intimidations have been confirmed by you here in this House. I would therefore like to ask my question in a different way. Is it excluded for the Belgian intelligence services to enter into cooperation agreements with foreign intelligence services which carry out intimidation against political dissidents, opponents or refugees in our territory?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Freilich (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Freilich on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u71	Minister, a Father Salesian who was already convicted of child abuse in 2012 would have committed similar acts in the Central African Republic while working for Caritas in a refugee camp there. The fact that he worked in that refugee camp raises a lot of questions. The man in question was convicted of child abuse and was banned from contact with minors until 2022. It's now 2019. A year after the conviction, he would have been sent to the refugee camp in accordance with the justice assistant and the probation committee. As you know, in a refugee camp there are often very vulnerable minors. He would be controlled there by the Belgian bishop in Kaga-Bandoro, but in the meantime CNN has collected several testimonies, which would show that the Father has abused a number of children. Complaints were also reported, after which the salesmen called him back to Belgium. The study will have to clarify this and determine whether there has been effective child abuse, but there are a number of questions apart. Firstly, were the judicial assistant and the probation committee effectively aware of the fact that the convicted Father would be employed in a refugee camp? Did they agree to that? How did one think to reconcile a refugee camp in Africa with a restraining order with minors? He'd been sentenced to parole. Was one of the conditions perhaps that he should stay in Belgium? What are the consequences of non-compliance with the conditions? Has there been any contact with Justice and the Bishop in Kaga-Bandoro? Have any prior agreements been made on control? How was this reported? Apparently he was placed there under the supervision of a bishop, rather than under the supervision of a judicial assistant or a probation committee. My main question is what measures we can take to ensure that such matters can no longer arise in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u72	Mrs De Wit, your questions concern an individual criminal case which is still under investigation by the judicial authorities. I have asked the College of Attorney General for information, and I can tell you the following. On 14 November 2012, the person concerned was sentenced by the correctional court to 18 months, with probation delay, for the assault of the honorability of two minors. The trial period was three years and the conditions consisted, inter alia, of further monitoring of the sexual problem, including under the supervision of the judicial assistant and the Probation Commission. There was no ban on going abroad. The correctional court also imposed, in accordance with Article 382a of the Criminal Code, the additional penalty of a ban on dealing with minors in the context of education and of associations mainly engaged in activities aimed at minors. A ban was also imposed on the exercise of a relationship of trust or authority with regard to minors. In 2013, the person concerned applied to work in the Central African Republic, in a purely administrative-co-ordinated role, at the central office of an NGO. That request was examined at the request of the Probation Committee and discussed in a team meeting with the therapists and psychiatrists. It was considered that a useful commitment in the field of work, without, of course, contacting children, is very important for the person concerned for the prevention of relapse. Under these strict conditions and prohibitions, the Probation Committee decided that the person concerned could work in the Central African Republic for two months. After these two months, the person concerned had to be available again for the continuation of therapeutic guidance. The judicial assistant communicated these data orally and in writing to the Flemish and Dutch Brotherhood, who further provided the data to the bishop of Kaga-Bandoro. The subsequent reports of the Probation Assistants mentioned the purely administrative work and the good continuation of counseling in therapy after his several bimonthly returns to Belgium. No problems or new facts were reported. The probation period expired on 14 November 2015 and was assessed as positive. There is now a judicial investigation to determine whether the person concerned has committed new facts and whether he has violated the conditions of the trial period and the prohibition of dealing with minors. In the event of breach of the conditions, the sentence of 18 months with delay becomes effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I realize it's an individual file. One can never think of a watertight system, but if someone is allowed to go abroad, to a refugee camp, even if it is supposedly about carrying out administrative tasks, one knows in advance that there may be contacts. They're almost impossible to rule out. I believe that we need to be much more careful in this regard. It is time, for all authorities, at all levels, to learn from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u74	Madam President, Minister, you have just spoken about minimum services and the royal decision. This morning, the minimum service in prisons also came into the news because of a strike announcement for next week by the trade unions, since according to the unions there is still a malaise regarding the staff framework and minimum service provision. It took some time, but last spring, on 14 March, we adopted the long-awaited law in the Chamber which includes the guaranteed service for prisons. That law came into force on 1 July. In the meantime, we have been for many months since the adoption and entry into force, but there are still some decisions to be made. Some matters within the functioning of the prison must at least remain guaranteed during a strike. I heard a union man explain this morning that 90% still has to work. Some matters need to be settled by royal decree, such as a plan that sets out performance and measures. I understand that you have been negotiating on this for a long time. This should also be discussed in the consultation committee. The operational plans for each prison had to be laid down before 1 October, but we are now past that date. The impact of a strike on the prison system is enormous, not only for the prisoners, but also for the police staff who have to take over the operation and therefore cannot carry out other tasks. That is why I would like to ask for a state of affairs. Since when is the operational plan model available? How many prisons did you receive an operational plan on 1 October? Which prisons did you receive an operational plan for and which prisons did not? Have operational plans been submitted since 1 October and today? If so, for which prisons? If not, when can we expect them? Have you taken the initiative to discuss your operational plan in the relevant prison consultation committees for which nothing has yet been laid down? In the meantime, are there any prisons where the guaranteed service is or can be applied, as provided for in the law? What is the status of the Royal Decree determining the possible administrative sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u75	Madam President, Ms De Wit, the Royal Decree of 4 August 2019 implementing Article 19 of the Law of 23 March 2019 on the organisation of penitentiary services and the statute of penitentiary staff was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 7 August 2019. That royal decision shall establish the model of operational plan. Operational plans have been drawn up for all prisons. They have been submitted to the basic consultation committee of each prison for consultation with the local delegates of each representative union. No agreement was reached in these basic consultation committees because most trade unions were absent from these consultations. The law requires that in such a case the Minister determines the performance and measures, after consultation within the relevant consultation committee. This high-level consultation committee was launched and currently calls on the social mediator for the public sector of the FOD WASO to complete this consultation. The aim is to give this consultation every opportunity, which means that the target date of 1 January 2020 for having a negotiated operational plan for strikes in each prison is likely to have to be postponed. There are therefore no approved operational plans yet, but the law obliges the head of establishment to take immediately the necessary measures to ensure the service in the event of a strike. The Royal Decree implementing Articles 15 and 16 of the Law of 23 March 2019 on the organisation of penitentiary services and the status of penitentiary staff was signed by the King on 19 November. It was announced today in the Belgian Official Journal. This Royal Decree shall enter into force 10 days after its publication.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have heard this morning the trade unionist who said that it must be far too soon, that the discussion per plan can only last ten minutes and that it is still asking far too much. I wish you every success in conciliation, because it will not be obvious. I also understand the concerns of the trade unionists. We must respond to each other in this and it must remain reasonable. I really hope that you will find a solution, because a strike wave will make no one better at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u77	Question No 55001828C by Mrs Soors is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u78	Minister, this question arises from Parliament's wide-ranging plea following a number of hearings involving sexual violence and crimes, in order to facilitate the collection and maintenance of the burden of proof with a view to resolving cases and reducing the number of unpunished offenders. After all, that percentage is huge. At that time, however, one of the experts found that forensic evidence is already being collected for serious crimes, so that they can be kept up to date, without even pressing charges. Hence my next question, which I put slightly differently than in the written version. The problem is that victims very often hesitate to make a complaint and even more hesitate to undergo far-reaching investigations. To collect forensic evidence using the Sexual Aggression Set (SAS), which may be an important tool to reduce the number of unpunished offenders, protocols must be concluded between hospitals and judicial authorities. How many cooperation protocols have been effectively concluded since the circular letter on this subject? I'd like to get the data by arrondissement and jurisdiction, if possible. On the website of the FPS Public Health it says that for taking samples for legal evidence from a mature and willing patient who wishes to file a complaint and consents to the use of the SAS set, one must contact the prosecutor, who determines who should make the purchase. When the patient is of age, willingly and refuses to submit a complaint, the possibility of taking samples and keeping them for one year is proposed. What is the difference between the samples by the SAS method and the samples taken if the victim does not wish to lodge a complaint for the time being? Are protocols also concluded between the King's Attorney and the hospitals of his arrondissement for the collection of samples when the victim does not wish to lodge a complaint? If not, why not? If so, how many protocols were concluded? I would also like to get the figures for each district and jurisdiction. The samples are now stored for a year, but that is very short. Is it an idea to extend that deadline? My main question is whether the protocols will be concluded effectively so that the burden of proof against perpetrators of sexual abuse can be collected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u79	Mr Crombez, for the reduction of the Sexual Aggression Set in victims of sexual violence, please refer to the reworked Ministerial Directive of 8 February 2017. It is in application of that directive that the King's Attorney concludes cooperation protocols with hospitals for referral by the judicial authorities of victims of sexual violence. In this context, therefore, there is a complaint from the victim or a report of the crime committed and we are in the criminal investigation procedure. Within the scope of the current oral question, I could not receive figures from the number of protocols concluded in this area. It does not provide for the taking of samples from victims who do not wish to submit a complaint to a hospital outside the police or the public prosecutor, but who do not yet wish to lodge a complaint. That was one of the gaps that the government made during the previous legislature decide to set up Care Centres after Sexual Violence. For the time being, there are such care centres in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. The roll-out across the country is further prepared by fellow Minister Muylle. A co-operation protocol between the hospital, the police zone and the competent parquet is also concluded after sexual violence, with the aim of ensuring smooth cooperation. So three cooperation protocols are currently under discussion. For each victim who presents, trace material shall be collected in accordance with a forensic roadmap, which shall provide for an adapted procedure. That roadmap is therefore the same for each victim, regardless of whether he or she wishes to lodge a complaint, if the victim agrees. If a victim does not yet wish to lodge a complaint, the recovered trace material shall be kept for a period of six months and the victim shall be informed before the expiry of that period so that he or she can still lodge a complaint. A longer retention period can be considered, but will require additional resources. The impact of a longer retention period is rather low, as most victims who do not immediately file a complaint do so during the first month following registration with the Care Centre after Sexual Violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I keep focusing on cases where the victims haven't filed a complaint. We must break the spiral in which victims, immediately after the facts, find it difficult to file a complaint for various reasons or not to take evidence and still take that view in the short period thereafter, because they know that few cases are being resolved. I am pleased with the letter from 2017. I am very pleased that it exists. However, I would strongly urge that much broader and more accessible measures be taken to ensure that victims are able to collect evidence without a complaint. It would drive the resolution rate and the number of convictions of offenders to a high level. Of course, we need resources for that. In the same hearing, experts calculated that the costs per year due to sexual crimes, including for the treatment of victims, amount to EUR 2.8 billion. That is because, unfortunately, we are still recording a huge percentage of sexual offences and sexual abuse for which the level of resolution is very low. That is why I am drawing attention to this. I am also grateful for your answer. There is a slight discrepancy between the explanations of the experts in the hearing and your answer. They were talking about a one-year retention period, while you are talking about six months. It is very good that victims are informed of this possibility, but they were talked about in a year's time. My spontaneous reaction is that a year is too short... you also gave an opinion on this, because either a complaint is filed very shortly after the facts or you have evidence collected, or after a very long period of time. We often see the second situation, which is why we have discussed the statute of limitations. Sometimes one still lodges a complaint, for example when one's own children have reached the age of the victim at the time of the abuse. It will cost money, it will, but that is also the case now: EUR 2.8 billion a year is a lot of money. Therefore, it is worth considering working out the method very widely and making it clear to victims that there is indeed a greater chance of a perpetrator being caught, even after a long time. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u81	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, there has been a major reform of the centralization of the criminal record at the level of justice. The municipalities had been involved. Today, however, there is a breakdown in the service rendered by the federal government to the communes. I have become aware by my administration that the services for the issuance of criminal records have experienced, from Monday 11 to Friday 15 November, problems of connection with a few brief moments of operation during the questioning of the Central Judicial Case. It should be noted that in these cases the municipal services are no longer able to provide the inhabitants of Saint-Josse with an extract of their criminal record. In general, these individuals come at the request of potential employers who require job applicants to have a blank criminal record. We conducted our investigation to determine whether these disturbances were isolated cases in a municipality. This has shown that other municipalities in Brussels have the same problem. These include Jette, Evere and Schaerbeek. Therefore, my questions are as follows. Have you been aware of these problems? If so, what are the solutions to prevent these situations from happening again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u82	Madam President, Mr Kir, I have indeed been informed by my services of the situation. Since 1 January 2018, the Central Judicial Case application has been used by all municipalities in Belgium to replace communal criminal records. This application is regularly updated to add features. On Tuesday, November 12 at the end of the day, a new version of this application was released. This new version had been previously tested and validated by the ICT service on different environments. On 13 November, treatment slowdowns and a first blockage were observed. The ICT service immediately took actions to restart the service. A correction version has been installed but does not provide a satisfactory solution. Finally, on Friday, November 15 at the end of the afternoon, the old version was re-installed after various checks. The consequences were identical in all the municipalities of Belgium. The latter faced slowdowns or blockages in requests for excerpts between November 13 at 12:00 p.m. and November 15 at 6:00 p.m. During these disturbances, the application continued to issue extracts from criminal records, but in smaller amounts. After re-establishment, a resumption of applications was noted. I understand the frustrations that communal agents may feel in the face of technical problems while citizens are waiting for their extract from the criminal record. I am also aware of the implications that this can have for citizens. CPS Justice's ICT service is still trying to limit impacts during these operations. In the future, it will have to redouble its vigilance. ICT teams are working on a solution to install the new version of the application. In particular, additional measures to test laden climbs have been put in place. The Central Judicial Case application allows you to request extracts from the criminal record, either via a website or through the communal software offered by different suppliers. Several emails were sent to software providers and a warning was given on the website to inform them before installation, during problem solving and after problem solving. The ICT service confirms to me that it is not necessarily obvious to effectively contact all the municipalities. The use of new communication channels to warn municipalities in such a situation is envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u83	Minister, the question makes sense if the problem has arisen across the country, and therefore the 589 communes. Slowing down, blocking the delivery of these essential documents for those seeking employment. It is our will to support them all. My question is twofold. First of all, I think that the municipalities can be warned quite simply. An e-mail may be sent to the municipal secretary and the mayor, or to the civil registrar. There could be this information directly. Then why would we want to put a new version of this application, minister? What is the added value of the new version?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u84	Mr Kir, I will answer you in writing in order to be precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u85	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u86	Minister, in 2015, Unia called on you to request the deletion of the word 'discovery' in article 759 of the Judicial Code, a provision currently used by judges to exclude persons wearing headscarves whose change would therefore prevent this kind of unfair and discriminatory situation from happening again. In vain. On 18 September 2018, the European Court of Human Rights issued the Lachiri judgment, condemning Belgium following a judge's ban on the presence of a person at a hearing because of the wearing of his scarf in June 2007. In fact, the complainant had to be heard at the hearing of the Indictments Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal as a witness in a case in which she had taken civil action with other members of her family. The European Court of Human Rights limits its examination of whether this measure was justified by the maintenance of order. However, it does not appear from the facts of the case that the manner in which the applicant behaved at the time of its entry into the hearing was disrespectful or constituted or risked a threat to the proper conduct of the hearing. In its judgment, the Court held that "infringement of the applicant's right to freedom to manifest her religion was not justified in a democratic society" and found that it violated Article 9 of the Convention guaranteeing freedom of thought, conscience and religion. On March 14, 2019, the College of Courts and Courts testifies to its full adherence to the judgment. On 26 March 2019, we learned that the Belgian Government currently considers that "the general enforcement measures taken under the judgment are likely to prevent similar violations of the Convention". As long as section 759 of the Judicial Code is unchanged, I would like to know, Minister, what these general enforcement measures are. What is your position on these attacks? Do you intend to take an interpretative circular? If so, what is the deadline? If not, do you think it would be useless? Can you explain?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u87	Mr Boukili, as you indicate, a request was made on 14 March 2019 by the President of the College of Courts and Courts, to the Management Committee for the dissemination to all magistrates of the seat of accession to the judgment. The College of Courts has indeed communicated its position that, in the long term, an amendment of the law in the sense of the Court's judgment is desirable. I understand this position, but a legislative amendment had become difficult given the end of the legislature and the current business period. There was no urgency since Article 759 was not incompatible with the Court's judgment. It can and must be applied and interpreted in the light of it. An interpretative circular does not seem to me to be appropriate. That being said, we are now in a new legislature and I do not think there is any point in re-evaluating the issue of the adaptation of section 759 of the Judicial Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I just hope that all the measures put in place to avoid such discriminatory situations and to ensure that our citizens, regardless of their origin or belief, enjoy the same rights as everyone else. We must not find ourselves in situations where European judgments have to be taken in order to remind us of order and to tell us that our functioning is not good at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u89	Madam President, Minister, in recent years, various government measures have made access to justice more expensive, significantly reducing its accessibility. Over a period of five years, the impact of these various measures is considerable. Since January 2014, VAT has to be paid on the services of lawyers. In 2016, the introduction of a financial contribution called user ticket for access to second-line legal aid required the payment of EUR 20 per lawyer and EUR 30 per procedure. Since 2016, the concept of professional income has been replaced by the concept of livelihood. As a result, income, as well as capital and other resources, must be taken into account in determining whether a person is entitled to free legal assistance. This means that the incomes of all people living under one roof are taken into account whether they are pensioners, disabled or unemployed. In 2017, the budget fund for second-line legal aid was established, to which the complainant, in the context of a civil dispute, must contribute up to twenty euros. Since 15 August 2018, the introduction of the computerization of justice obliges lawyers to pay fees to the bar whenever they wish to transmit their findings, procedural documents and other documents digitally to the courts, the public prosecutor's office, or to transmit them to their clerk. It takes six to nine euros per e-filing, then invoiced to the defendant. Since 1 February 2019, the registry fees, also referred to as set-aside, which constitute the fee claimed by the justifiable person who brings an action before a court, have been reformed and increased, ranging from 50 to 650 euros. Minister, this November 28th, you said in plenary session: "The state must pay more for legal aid." This may be surprising in view of what has been done previously. So how do you explain the various measures taken during the past legislature, in view of your desire to ensure equal access to justice for all? Do you confirm that people below the poverty line do not have access to second-line legal aid, totally free of charge? What are the numbers? How many people does it represent?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u90	Madam President, Mr Boukili, before I answer your questions, I would like to clarify the measures to which you refer. VAT must actually be paid on the services of lawyers since 2014. We were the only European country that did not tax the services of lawyers. I also refer you to the judgment of the Court of Justice of 28 July 2016, which held that there was no obstacle to access to justice. The introduction of a financial contribution called a moderator ticket has been cancelled by the Constitutional Court. This is the only measure of the 2016 reform that was annulled by the Court. The concept of livelihoods has replaced that of income or resources. It did not replace that of professional income. This is an important clarification because before 2016, the income of the legal aid applicant was assessed in terms of both labour income and income from capital or other resources available to the applicant. For this category of applicants, the resources of all persons living under the same roof were also taken into account. The 2016 reform therefore did not change anything in this respect. A second-line legal aid fund has been established. The plaintiff must, of course, pay 20 euros, but it is possible to recover them if he wins the trial. There are also many exceptions. Registry fees have been increased. However, the rates for duty-to-role remain at a lower level than those in other Member States. Persons receiving legal aid may also be exempted in whole or in part from the right of appointment. It should also be noted that these rights are now due to the end of the adversarial proceedings. At the plenary session on 28 November, I did not talk about ensuring equal access to justice for all. There is no question of providing legal aid to all citizens. I said that the State must provide more funding for legal aid, particularly in order to better guarantee access to justice for those in need. It is clear that those who have the resources to access justice through traditional channels should not be involved in the provision of legal aid. As for your second question, I cannot confirm the number of people living below the poverty line who do not have access to legal aid, because I have no official figures on this. The increase in the thresholds for access to legal aid is, in any event, a matter for the discretion and discretion of the legislator. In this connection, I would remind you that two legislative proposals aimed at raising the legal aid thresholds are currently under discussion in this committee and await the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u91	Minister, thank you for your answer. To clarify my point, when I speak of the right of all to justice, it means that those who do not have sufficient means, if not at all, can have a right of access to justice – which must not be reserved for those who manage to pay for it. For the rest, I thank you for your clarification. However, we are the last country to place VAT on the services of lawyers and, for this reason, their costs are constantly increasing. On the other hand, I would have liked to have received some figures so that we could discuss this issue on a material basis. If I understood you correctly, it is unfortunately impossible to obtain them, because they remain at the discretion of the legislator. This therefore prevents us from clearly examining the situation and, consequently, from providing adequate answers. With regard to bills, we will obviously support them with a view to making justice accessible to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u92	Minister, gambling addiction seems to be becoming more and more widespread among Belgians. It is my responsibility that the regulator, the gambling committee, does not function as planned, to the detriment of consumer protection and with dramatic consequences for a large section of the population already weakened. There are many who come to our communes and CPAS. You know the vicious circle: over-indebtedness, loss of housing, loss of employment, mental health problems, alcoholism, suicide are all unfortunate findings that could be reduced if regulation did take place. Recent laws set a maximum amount that a person could play every week. This weekly limit could be increased provided, inter alia, that the player is not included in the National Bank's list of overindebted persons. This is a good point because the intention is commendable. However, in fact it is up to me that the Commission does not have access to the list of the National Bank for lack of will and/or resources. This means that the law is not respected and that everyone can wager the craziest sums and blow up both his budget and his life in a thousand bursts. Before the opening of the private market in 2013, there were the National Lottery, some casinos and some bingoes in the cafes. This is still the case in many European countries. But in Belgium, the market has been opened exponentially and the problem of addiction has become a societal problem. What worries me particularly is online games. The accessibility of the game, the high redistribution rate, the feeling of mastering the outcome of the game, the lack of social control and the dematerialization of money on the net only reinforce the dependency. At the end of the night, in front of his computer, without moderator, how much will he have lost? Is it true, Minister, that the gambling commission did not have access to the list of the National Bank? If so, why? How do you intend to enforce the law? In the Scandinavian countries, the sector has been renationalized. In France, for example, online casino games are prohibited. Why not consider it for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u93	Mrs Dedonder, indeed, the gambling committee has not yet had access to this register. The computer system is being developed and the budget was approved by the Council of Ministers on 8 and 20 November 2019. Concrete development is planned for 2020. The recent amendment to the Play of Chance Act has given the King the power to lay down rules under which the Play of Chance Commission may request information from the National Bank. This competence to take such a royal order was inserted by the new article 55/1 of the Act on games of chance. When drawing up the royal decree, we knew that the technical adaptations would be significant within the National Bank and the gambling commission. Therefore, we have taken into account possible delays and the King has been given the opportunity to postpone the entry into force of this article. Enforcement will be ensured by checking whether operators have effectively prevented players from charging their player account when the amount added exceeds their deposit limit. If this is not the case, operators commit a punishable offence. In recent years, there has been a debate in the Scandinavian countries about the liberalisation of the gambling market or not. There is both liberalization towards an authorised system, as in Sweden, and a strengthening of the state monopoly, as in Norway. France has also been liberalised towards an authorised system with control by a regulator. The market for online slot machines has remained closed since their operation is prohibited. Before 2011, online gambling was also banned in Belgium, but an illegal market developed in which age control was no longer applicable, allowing game-dependent people and minors to play without difficulty. In 2010, the legislator opted for regulation, as was also the case in the recent legislative amendment. A possible renationalisation must be the subject of a governmental agreement and must be carried out in consultation with the Regions, which are responsible for tax matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u94	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that the computer system will be in place in 2020. It's about time. I hope that will be the case. For the rest, I wanted to get your opinion on online games. I guess we'll need a lot of focus groups. The main thing is that we can enforce the law that you voted for and that this ceiling can be controlled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic064x.u95	We must end our meeting now. The remaining questions will be postponed until next week.
