ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u1	Good morning, everyone. Sorry I'm late. First of all, Mrs Van Hoof has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u2	Madam Minister, on 31 May 2018, my bill on the approach to genital mutilation was adopted in plenary. The Act entered into force on 1 September 2019 and consists of two elements. Firstly, genital mutilation is mentioned in the medical record. When a woman or girl underwent a form of genital mutilation, it must be well documented in the medical record. Information on the type of genital mutilation and on the country and region of origin of the woman concerned should be included and any re-infibulation demand recorded. Secondly, the right of medical reporting was extended. When doctors establish genital mutilation, they are no longer bound by professional secrecy in the Criminal Code. In the meantime, there is a demand from hospitals for guidelines on the registration of genital mutilation. Firstly, what have you already done in this respect? Secondly, can you send a letter of instruction or a circular letter to hospitals with guidelines on the registration of genital mutilation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u3	Ms Van Hoof, following the entry into force of the Law of 18 June 2018, the patient's medical records kept in the hospital, as provided for in the amended Article 2 (1) of the Royal Decree of 3 May 1999, should contain a number of elements, including the identity of the patient, the family and personal backgrounds, the current history of disease, the data of prior consultations and any hospitalisations, all data related to the results of clinical, radiological, biological, functional and histopathological examinations, plus the advice of the consulted doctors, the preliminary and final diagnosis. If a woman or girl, regardless of her age, has undergone any form of genital mutilation, it shall be well documented in the medical record, including the type of genital mutilation. The country and region of origin of the woman or her family concerned shall also be mentioned. If a question is asked about re-infibulation, this shall also be documented in the medical file. The government thus determines which elements the medical record should contain at least, but not how the doctor should fill them in. For none of the elements listed in Article 2 (1) of the Royal Decree of 3 May 1999, the way in which they are to be interpreted was made explicit by letter of circular. I would also remind you that the FPS administration has no access to the medical records. The Act entered into force on 1 September 2019. I have not yet received any questions from hospitals about problems with this or specific directives to comply with the legislative amendment. If that is the case, this can be investigated. As far as the extension of the right to report on doctors is concerned, a code of conduct has been available since March last year and has been developed by the Order of Doctors in cooperation with the government. It is intended for doctors and hospitals and should help them to act carefully when confronted with female genital mutilation. In recent years, there has rightly been a growing focus on preventing female genital mutilation. It is recommended that a subsequent government also evaluate the impact of the various measures in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u4	Madam Minister, we must indeed be able to evaluate; that is important. The entry in the medical record should allow us to identify the regions from which the maimed women originate and which type of genital mutilation is the biggest problem in our country. After all, today we have absolutely no idea of this, which makes prevention much more difficult. Hospitals had already informed me that they could themselves give details of the way in which they are registered, but it is good that we can eventually compare and examine the data in this area, in order to improve prevention and guidance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, as every year, Belfius published, a few weeks ago, the financial situation of our hospitals through his study MAHA (Model for Automatic Hospital Analyses). If the study shows a slight improvement over 2017, it cannot be said that the situation is comforting. Thus, three observations are highlighted: First, almost one in three hospitals is in the red. While hospital revenues continue to grow, 32% of hospitals closed 2018 with red accounts. Secondly, between 2014 and 2018, it appears that the number of admissions increased by 0.5% per year. On the other hand, the number of days has fallen by 0.8% per year. Tertio, in 2018, while staff remuneration increased by around 3%, Belgium remains a country where the number of patients per nurse is too high, with about 10.7 patients compared to a European average of 9. Minister, the situation remains a matter of concern and we must address it as soon as possible. The budgetary context in which our hospitals have evolved in recent years is not foreign to them. I am thinking of the 1.5% growth standard in Belgium under your government, while the Plan Bureau estimates that it should be at least 2.5%. I am also thinking of the significant savings that have been made in health care, which are in the order of EUR 2 billion. Minister, the reform of the hospital landscape is on the way, and that is so much better. It will probably be more efficient and I hope that we will build networks for the benefit of the patient, but it will not address all the difficulties the hospital sector is facing today. A reform of hospital funding was also on the agenda. Where are we? If I am not mistaken, except for a project on low variability care, nothing has been submitted to this assembly under the previous legislature. Hospitals, on the other hand, have lived with a very difficult budget framework. So what are the next steps in this reform that is essential to ensure the sustainability of our system, its quality and its effectiveness for the patient? Finally, one of the elements highlighted by the Belfius study is the glaring lack of nursing supervision. We've already talked about it over and over again. Where are we? Do you confirm the situation? Are you considering reviewing these standards with the impact they will have on the budget? Nor should we forget the need to reform nomenclatures, as has been announced for several years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u6	Mr Rigot, the MAHA study carried out annually by Belfius in recent years, sums up once again the financial situation of hospitals, this time on the basis of figures from 2018. The overall figures remain the same, although they show a very modest improvement. It is not surprising that we are not seeing any major changes yet, because the fundamental reforms of the sector, after many consultations, studies and preparations, have only begun during the previous legislature. I have never claimed that we could achieve such a reform in its entirety, in the space of a legislature, let alone perceive the results. I presented the reform on 28 April 2015. I said then that the reform would last beyond this legislature. But the reform is under way in the area of hospital networks, where a first obstacle has been overcome. In the coming years, it will also be necessary to work to build trust between hospitals within the networks. Locoregional clinical networks are an instrument and not an end in itself. The profound change in the hospital landscape will only be a reality when the provision of locoregional care is less fragmented and public funds are invested in a less fragmented and therefore more efficient way. While networks continue to provide access to basic health care, they must stop the competitive overbidding between hospitals. I agree with you that the locoregional clinical networks would have more room for manoeuvre if, in other areas, both federal and federal, the relevant legislation were aligned in this direction. But we must remain realistic. The macro-economic context will no longer allow for an increase in health care budgets as was the case before the 2008 crisis. It is only by optimizing health care that we can maintain their quality and accessibility. Federal entities – for accreditation standards and the infrastructure funding – and federal authorities – through programming, standard setting and funding – have their role to play. Innovation should be encouraged financially. In this regard, I will cite as an example the continuation of the conversion of conventional hospitalizations into day hospitalizations. This is also essential in order to be able to improve the number of nurses compared to the number of patients in Belgium. Hospital funding needs to be made more transparent and simpler. Here, too, we have not been able, as planned, to reach the end of the previous legislature. But with the introduction of funding for low variability care, we have given a strong boost by providing the same funding for the same patients in all hospitals in our country. You saw yesterday that it was still necessary. It is strange that the price varies. It's not normal. This is especially the case in Wallonia. You've seen that the most expensive hospitals are located in Wallonia. That's a fact. I'm not happy about that. Not at all! For the moment, it's only for fees. But in the coming years, this will also be the case for drugs, implants and budgets. We are preparing this. We're working on it. That will be our legacy. During the previous legislature, the partners of the organs of INAMI launched a reform of the whole nomenclature. This issue has been discussed for more than 30 years. I've been here for 20 years, but it's been 30 years. During the previous legislature, work really began. We await the conclusions of the working group. Like you, we hope that the reforms will take place. The challenges are now identified. We share the concern to keep our country at the top level in health care. On the growth rate, I would like to listen to you when you say you need more than 1.5%. I still have problems when I see the hole in front of us. I hear in the field that it will be the minimum minimorum. But it is possible that this is even less. You've seen the paintings, which have been proposed by someone you know well. It won't be easy. That will not be obvious.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u7	Minister, thank you for this clear and detailed answer. I want to assure you that I am aware of the long-term work you are doing, which aims to empower the entire sector in order to achieve effective management, with respect for all patients. Beyond all economic logic, which could also come from the hospital community, we must be careful to maintain our hospitals and to prevent them from cutting in the way, to the detriment of the staff who are at the bedside of the patients. For my part, I am an alderman of a city of 15,000 inhabitants. We are fortunate to have two high-quality hospitals, of which I know the importance for the inhabitants of the basin where we live. There is no question that one of them is paying for a purely economic underfunding or logic that is not yours, Madam Minister, but that could be that of the hospital community. This is why these future dangers need to be addressed. Finally, I would like to remind you of the absolute need for the optimal funding of the White Blouse Fund, which we voted for a few weeks ago. 2020 is already tomorrow. It is therefore important to work hard on it. In fact, the patient must be able to be assisted by medical staff, whether he is a doctor, a nurse or a caregiver. Benefiting from high-quality health care is the key issue in our fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u8	Madame Minister, on 16 July 2019 the FAGG published circular No. 648. The letter provides some clarifications in relation to the Royal Decree of 11 June 2015 on the regulation of products containing one or more tetrahydrocannabinols as regards raw materials for magistral preparations. The letter allows pharmacists to make majestic preparations based on cannabidiol, if the presence of THC is less than 1 microgram per kilogram of body weight per day. If a raw material is not authorised, which is the case with substances from the plant cannabis sativa, a pharmacist can only use them in majestic preparations and if there is an analytical certificate, delivered by an approved laboratory. Delivering cannabidiol based preparations can only be made as a majestic preparation, i.e. on prescription. Official free-selling preparations are prohibited. The circular rightly states that training is necessary in order to acquire the necessary competences to carry out CBD-based preparations correctly. Firstly, could you clarify the impact of the letter in practice? Will patients soon be able to obtain customized majestic preparations based on CBD on prescription? Secondly, what kind of preparations will become available? Is it about oils, sprays or pill-shaped drugs? For which pathologies will doctors be able to prescribe CBD-based preparations? Thirdly, what are the risks and benefits associated with this? Is there sufficient knowledge in both doctors and pharmacists about the risks associated with medicinal products containing the cannabis plant as a raw material?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u9	Mrs Van Hoof, due to the relevant letter, the raw material CBD is available to pharmacists. Patients can indeed be treated with this if prescribed. However, the maximum daily exposure to tetrahydrocannabinol should be taken into account and the dosage of CBD should be adjusted on the basis of the THC content specified in the analytical certificate. Different forms of manufacturing are possible. The most common is the solution in oil. It is the doctor who decides for which pathologies he wishes to prescribe CBD. The existing evidence for the medical properties of CBD is currently limited and also fragmented. The existing literature describes, among other things, use in certain forms of epilepsy, such as the syndrome of Dravet and Lennox-Gastaut. CBD has no psychoactive activity. The risk of addiction is therefore limited. Like any medicine, CBD has natural side effects. Moreover, the long-term effects have not yet been properly studied or mapped. Physicians and pharmacists treating patients with it should therefore adequately raise their scientific knowledge of that raw material and medicinal cannabis or cannabinoids-based medicinal products. A specific advantage of making CBD available as a raw material is that doctors who identify a therapeutic need to treat their patients with CBD can prescribe that and can also rely on the correct delivery of a preparation via the official pharmacists. This contrasts with cannabis oil, which is made illegal on the basis of coffeeshop cannabis, whose quality and purity are not guaranteed. In particular, it concerns the THC content and also the possible presence of heavy metals; insecticides have even been detected. In the case of cannabis oil, the user also risks seizure or a positive drug test in traffic. There is therefore still a need for knowledge so that the doctor knows what he prescribes, as the doctor is always responsible for the prescription, as the pharmacist is responsible for the correct delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u10	Madam Minister, earlier this year we adopted legislation on the recognition of the cannabis agency. Companies can now produce plants, allowing them to make raw materials available to universities and pharmacists. I think we should follow that evolution very closely. It is true that the supply on the market is large today. For example, there are CBD shops, but control indeed shows that the THC level is in many cases far too high. That's why I'm an advocate, along with you, for this to be controlled, under surveillance. The necessary training must indeed be organized, as I fear that neither doctors nor pharmacists have sufficient knowledge at present. In that sense, I am in favour of the royal decision. We must ensure that the product is properly placed on the market. Due to a lack of knowledge, the correct medicines may not be prescribed, so patients still purchase in the Netherlands. That is why, even in the future, follow-up is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u11	Minister, Esophagus cancer reaches about 1,400 Belgians every year. Two treatments are generally offered in this context. In the face of a small cancer, it will be surgery. In the face of advanced cancer, doctors will direct the patient to chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. However, it is my responsibility that chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy sessions are only reimbursed in the context of phase 4 oesophageal cancer. Minister, could you tell me what are the indications for which chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy sessions are recommended as part of the treatment of the oesophagus? Do you confirm that only stage 4 patients are currently eligible for reimbursement for these sessions? If so, why? If necessary, could a broader refund be considered in the future? What would be the cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u12	Mr Rigot, as regards the reimbursement of chemotherapy for patients with oesophagus cancer, you do not mention any products or names of medicines. Therefore, my response is based on a few common medications used in the chemotherapy regimen for oesophagus cancer. In alphabetical order, for example, cisplatin, epirubicin, 5-fluorouracil, and paclitaxel. These drugs are unconditionally refundable. In other words, to answer your question, precipitated chemotherapy is reimbursed for all patients, not only those at stage 4, but also patients at another stage. Treatment is not expected until the patient reaches stage 4 and treatment is started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u13	It's perfect, thank you for your clear answer that relieves me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u14	Madam Minister, we have discussed Avastin before, but unfortunately I have to come back to it again. In a hearing on 21 October, we heard from the RIZIV that the draft royal decree for the refund of Avastin was written at the RIZIV in mid-2015. At the meeting on 9 October, you stated that the royal decree was written on your cabinet. I quote you literally: "The texts for the design of the royal decree came not from the FAGG and the RIZIV, but from us. They were talking about the texts of the RIZIV, but those were our texts." Madam Secretary, there are many uncertainties in that file for me. We would like to be clear about the way things have gone? Why is your version different from that of Mr De Cock?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u15	Mrs Jiroflée, you are once again asking a question on the subject. I'm sure it's about the heart of the matter. There is no difference whatsoever between what Mr De Cock and myself have said. As always, the KB was prepared in consultation with the RIZIV or with the Public Health Office. We do not each set our own course by writing a royal decision separately. The formatting is done in consultation. Mr De Cock is present almost as often in my cabinet as I am, you will not get a pin in that. I do not see how your question has to do with what it is about, the use of off-label. The use of off-label is not without risk to the patient. For me, that is the main reason for acting on the file. Cases of serious complications have been reported following injection of that product into the eye. The product must indeed be injected into the eye. The responsibility is always with the doctor who prescribes and administers that medicine, but in the event of complications the consequences are for the patient. We must be attentive to that. The Royal Decree was prepared together with the RIZIV and then submitted to the FAGG. The FAGG expressed two alarming comments in a response. Firstly, on the scientific package leaflet, the manufacturer mentions side effects of using Avastin for eye disorders, which are still on it. During repacking, there is a second risk of contamination of the product, resulting in a disturbed effect of the medicine. There was therefore no absolute certainty that the medicine Avastin was as safe against age blindness as Lucentis treatment. I submitted the FAGG's detailed report to the committee on this matter. In view of those comments and the need for absolute patient safety, a negotiation was initiated to obtain a lower price for Lucentis. The general principles have been followed. This means that the government wants a correct price for the medicines, a price that takes into account possible alternatives. For a medicinal product for which there is another treatment, the government pays a similar price, if its effect is similar. This is what the government applies to Article 81 contracts. I hope to give you some clarity on this. You can also put the question to Mr De Cock.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u16	I certainly will, Madam Secretary. I do not want to put any hair between you and Mr De Cock. That's not what we're here to do. It's our job to do the patient. Let's get that straight. The reason I come back to this is the quote I just gave you. You said very clearly that the texts did not come from the RIZIV and the FAGG. I thought I should come back to that aspect. You will understand that we continue to be amazed and do not let go of the matter immediately. We continue to be surprised that, after the negotiations, the price would have fallen to the extent that we see now. We continue to believe that something is not quite right or that we do not know all the elements. We'll keep following the file. Thank you, at least, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u17	Minister, as you know, since January 1, 2019, a new regulation has come into force and introduced a lump-sum hospital treatment based on the "low variability" criterion. The aim of this reform is, as is well known, to avoid the inappropriate use of the means available. However, a little less than a year ago, in this respect, the professional associations of paediatricians had raised some concerns about the impact of this operation for paediatric care in newborn care and for semi-intensive neonatal care after delivery in hospitals. In fact, three points of attention were addressed in the demands made at the time by paediatricians: the timing of childbirth and the sometimes necessary presence of a paediatrician, post-natal maternity care and semi-intensive neonatal care, logically less expensive than intensive care. So, specifically with regard to newborn care, could you tell us whether an initial evaluation has been carried out by your services and the services of INAMI at this level? How many births have been registered since January 1, 2019? Of these, how many have experienced follow-ups requiring a distinction of billing, thus moving from lump-sum to individual bills, for care related to complications in the newborn? Are these situations mainly related to premature births? Finally, have you seen more newborns entering intensive neonatal care since January 1, 2019, compared to previous years? Has this situation, given the availability of these centres, increased the number of newborns moving from the original hospital centre - from maternity to another centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u18	Taquin, the introduction of the new funding for low variability care took place on January 1, 2019. This caused a lot of agitation, especially among paediatricians, but also among other doctors. Paediatric examination of the newborn immediately after delivery is charged in the same way as before, therefore by delivery, and it is not part of the care with low variability. It should not be forgotten that administrations are also actively working to ensure a separate bill for the mother and the newborn. The separate billing will come into effect on January 1, 2021. To this end, work is under way on the following aspects. First of all, it is necessary to be able to communicate the national registry number of the newborn to the hospitals very quickly. A new website has been developed for this purpose and this service uses the e-Health platform. Second, the newborn must immediately be affiliated with a mutuality. Arrangements have been made for this and appropriate ICT tools are being finalized. In a later phase, these tools will have to be integrated by hospitals into billing procedures. Finally, clinical experts will consider whether the conditions for low variability care are met for newborns. For a real audit of the consequences of this new funding, it is still too early. Therefore, I am not in a position to answer your specific questions; the analysis you are asking must be done on the basis of the registration of the minimum hospital summary (MHR) on the one hand, and on the basis of billing on the other. For these two elements, hospitals need a little time and the RHM registration for the first half of 2019 is not yet available. We'll have it by the end of the year. Once all hospitals have entered this data, the analysis may take place. Therefore, we will conduct this analysis, but we do not yet have all the necessary data. Similarly, billing is still incomplete. The first observations concerning the year 2019 can only be made in a few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u19	Thank you, Madam Minister. I note, however, that there is work being done in the follow-up to decisions taken. The measures will be activated on 1 January 2021. I am satisfied with this and will be attentive to the work currently under way, which will continue with a view to taking into account the newborn child who, according to the paediatricians, was discriminated against because he was not recognized as an individual in his own right, as is the mother. I have heard the efforts made and the follow-up carried out. Thank you for that. I understand that we have to wait for the hospital summary and the billing. This is a little premature at the moment, indeed, for the analyses. I'll come back to you on this. Thanks in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u20	Minister, we know that the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products is increasingly strengthening its role, particularly in the light of the increase in drug unavailability and the national procedures for innovative drugs. The AFMPS plays an essential role in the protection of public health by, inter alia, ensuring compliance with the rules on the design, quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products and raw materials intended for their production. Control actions against infringements and non-compliance are certainly essential, alongside its scientific, administrative and information activities. In addition, since 2014, the Agency has been managing mandatory notifications of unavailability by pharmaceutical companies. Therefore, can you indicate how the AFMPS teams have evolved over the past five years? Since 2014, has AFMPS staff been increased? How many people have been hired in the last five years? On the basis of what criteria is the Agency's staff framework determined? How many checks are carried out each year by the AFMPS? Which service manages the information mission related to unavailability notifications (information, recommendations, market release, accessibility of alternatives, etc.).( )? Are decisions on the overall framework of Agency staff being developed and specific engagement procedures considering certain issues, such as unavailability, decided or envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u21	Ms.Taquin, since 2014, 144 officers have been recruited from AFMPS. As of January 2014, the Agency had 417 staff members. Today, the Agency consists of 472 staff members. The staff framework is based on a needs analysis based on the volume estimates of approved files and projects. The AFMPS carries out various inspections in the legal drug system, namely inspections of manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies, hospital pharmacies and publicly available pharmacies, inspections in the field of clinical trials and pharmacovigilance, as well as inspections in blood establishments and human body equipment banks. The total figures for the last five years are 1037 in 2018, 926 in 2017, 998 in 2016, 1260 in 2015 and 993 in 2014. I have a painting here. I'll hand it over to the president. The Good Use service, part of DG POST authorization, provides for the encoding in the AFMPS database of notifications made by marketing authorisation holders concerning unavailability, market returns, extensions, availability, and start and end of marketing. The same service is responsible for the analysis of criticism and unavailability with the help of the decision tree, the verification of the availability of alternatives and the possibilities to compensate for the unavailability and the organisation of task forces if necessary and the dissemination of recommendations. All in close cooperation with the inspection services responsible for checks and the granting of exemptions for the importation of foreign consignments by firms. The Good Use Service is also responsible for coordinating the working group on unavailability, monitoring of the task force on availability of authorised medicines and on the SPOC pilot of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), as well as the "pharma-statut" project, the new online platform for the exchange of information on unavailability with patients but also with doctors and pharmacists. For all of these activities, a full-time A1 equivalent was engaged at the end of 2018 at the Good Use service. In fact, many people in the service are involved in these matters because a full-time equivalent is not sufficient to carry out all of these tasks. In the 2019 personal plan, the commitment of a second A1 was provided to the Good Use service to deal with the significant increase in the number of unavailabilitys notified to the AFMPS and to expand all related activities, such as the use of the decision tree to assess marketing stops, the unavailability of veterinary medicinal products or the monitoring of the availability of raw materials. The 2020 personnel plan is still under development. It should be noted that AFMPS is an administration like any other. During this legislature, it was very strict for all our administrations. It was hard for the people who were working there and we didn't have the opportunity to replace the people who were leaving. There have also been significant staff restrictions. We have therefore reduced the number of staff. No one's been replaced. The number of staff remained generally the same as in 2014. When you have more work, you obviously need more staff. The framework was strengthened, but it was not easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the clarifications. At the level of the budget of the AFMPS, could you please explain to me the origin of its financing and precisely, what part of this budget is taken over by the pharmaceutical sector and how it has evolved in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u23	That is a supplementary question. I'll send you the answer. This is a very specific staffing. This is decided in the Council of Ministers. I can search for the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u24	Could you just tell me if the trend has been evolutionary or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u25	As I said to you, staff have been strengthened, so obviously the cost of staff is important in the overall budget. I'll give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u26	I understand that one of your combined questions came back here from another committee. Actually, it's one question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u27	Mr President, that is correct. Madam Minister, in the 2018 Book on Social Security of the Court of Auditors, I read that the Medical Evaluation and Control Service has established that 15 hospitals for an amount of 14.8 million euros have been unfairly billed for non-approved NMR devices. I have the following questions for you. How many NMR recordings were made illegally? Has this amount been fully recovered by the government? Was the brake money, if there was, returned to the patients as well?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u28	Ms Gijbels, the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV, after examination, selected a total of 96,683 MRI treatments carried out with 18 non-approved devices in 15 hospitals. Completed EUR 7.8 million was voluntarily reimbursed for 15 MRI devices in 12 hospitals. Additional 3 administrative procedures are launched for 3 MRI devices in 3 hospitals, amounting to 1.9 million euros. The Medical Evaluation and Control Service is only competent for the financial damage suffered in respect of the part paid by the sickness insurance scheme, according to Article 142 (1) second paragraph of the GVU Act. In this specific case, the patient himself suffered no financial damage from the health care provider's charge. The MRI was effectively performed and the patient paid the brake fee for the care he received. The costs were only wrongly invoiced to the RIZIV. Therefore, that amount had to be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It is certainly a good thing that the MRIs begin to take over the indications of the CT scan where possible, because MRIs do not cause radiation stress. M.R.I.s are expensive devices, so the temptation may be to make them fully render. It is therefore a good thing that this is monitored. We just need to be careful. The MRI distributions may not have been wrongly carried out in patients, but we must be careful that they are only carried out for the right indications. In this respect, directives and proper supervision are very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u30	That's not possible anymore. The incentive's dropping. After all, we know where the black MRIs are. So it's impossible. They have a kind of 'chassis number', a number on which the date of the examination and the patient's data must be provided in order to submit it to the RIZIV. The RIZIV sees, for example, directly if a performance of an NMR for scientific research is used curatively. That is why we have done so, namely to remove the black NMRs. There can be no programming if the NMRs rise everywhere like mushrooms. That's how it happened. Once again, even before the fall of the government, an agreement has been reached through the Inter-Ministerial Conference to install 18 additional NMR devices in our country. They are now designated by the Länder. So that change is in progress. However, too many CT scans are still being requested. There is also a lot of double use. In the past, an NMR device, which is indeed a very expensive device, could easily be installed. The idea lived that there were a few black planes, but it was four times as many black planes in our country. They were all involved and the RIZIV could not distinguish between a device with and a device without permission. Now we can see that and our services can act. As a result, there is also no incentive to use the black devices for real investigations, because they will never be refunded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u31	Mr President, Minister, for the record, I fully agree that the issue needs to be properly monitored and that there must be a restriction. My question, however, was, in particular, whether or not it had been recovered. I understand that recovery has already largely taken place. We need to focus more on MRIs if we want to stay away from the head of the platoon on medical radiation stress. This is where we still take the lead in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u32	Minister, the press reported on a survey conducted by Sciensano that as many as 87% of Belgians would be in favour of using the non-invasive prenatal test to detect more genetic diseases in the fetus. The survey also found that 70 per cent of respondents were interested in knowing before birth to what extent their child would be at risk of hereditary diseases. Sciensano announces the submission of the findings of this survey to your firm for March 2020. The investigation actually runs from October 15th to February 7th. Since the investigation has already been relayed in the press, you have already had the opportunity to be questioned about it and you would have claimed that the use of genetic data could also have the effect of significantly improving the quality and adequacy of the care given. Therefore, minister, can you let me know if you are waiting for Sciensano's final and complete conclusions before any proactive steps are taken in this debate and in particular in the DNA debate? Have the competent departments of the various medical faculties of the country's universities been notified of the initial results of the survey? Will they be associated with a more comprehensive reflection on the use of the non-invasive prenatal test? Does the Bioethics Advisory Board also intend to give an opinion on this issue? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u33	Ms. Rohonyi, a sensitive theme such as the use of genomic information in health care requires a survey of the opinions and values of the population before any proactive approach is taken. That's why I first asked Sciensano, in early 2018, to organise a citizen's forum on the ethical, legal and societal issues of this topic. The online DNA debate is the responsibility of the citizen lab "my DNA" led by the King Baudouin Foundation in cooperation with the Sciensano Institute. Indeed, we want to develop a deliberative policy that considers citizens, patients and other stakeholders as partners in order to maintain their trust. As regards the involvement of the academic services and specialist doctors concerned in a reflection on the use of the non-invasive prenatal test, the Higher Council for Health has already expressed itself in Opinion No 8912 on the implementation of the non-invasive prenatal genetic screening of trisomy 21 in the practice of health care in Belgium. In addition, the same Council produced Opinion No. 9240, "Generalized genetic testing in the context of reproduction. Towards responsible implementation in the health care system", in collaboration with university genetics centres. As I have already said, I strongly defend the involvement of citizens in discussions on such important societal issues. From the moment it becomes clear that there is a relevant demand within our company for such tests to be available, I will naturally take this into account. However, I do not wish to consider this request in such a short time, which leaves no room for citizen reflection, because the ethical consequences of such a decision are very serious. The Bioethics Advisory Committee also expressed its views on the issue of the NIPT test in its Opinion No. 66. This was not the first time that the Committee had issued opinions on the use of genetic diagnosis, for example Opinion No 32 on the free disposition of genetic testing. As for the refund, the NIPT test in Belgium has been refunded since July 2017, with a user ticket of €8.6. Currently, there is no reimbursement for generalized genetic testing in a reproductive setting. A reimbursement scheme for this test would fall within the competence of a body such as the Medical Technical Council within INAMI. The NIPT is reimbursed everywhere, in all hospitals and laboratories. But for the time being, wider screenings are only being carried out in reference centres, because counselling is needed. I am told that it is not always easy to interpret such tests. These are difficult discussions. It is also difficult to inform future parents of anything that can be found in their baby's DNA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. You have indeed answered each of my questions. I hear the difficulty of deciding on an ethical subject like this. It must be recognized that this test has advantages that do not exist in other tests. I am thinking of amniocentesis, false positives, the risk of miscarriage, etc. This test also has the advantage of being able to be performed during the first weeks of pregnancy. But it is true that it is sometimes difficult to interpret the results. In my view, we can only congratulate you on your approach, as you have ensured that Sciensano, as well as other bodies, can verify that support is actually provided by citizens, but also by experts, in order to promote or expand this test. Thank you for the approach that has been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Royal Academy of Medicine has given an opinion at the request of the former Flemish Minister of Health, according to which pharmacists may be asked to increase the rate of vaccination in a high-risk population, mainly aimed at vaccination against influenza. This recommendation of both the French- and Dutch-speaking wings of the Academy is based on international experience, with pharmacists allowed to practice influenza vaccination in France, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Portugal, the United States and Canada. According to several scientific reports, this practice is positive. This is why the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association recommended in its latest memorandum the study of the positive contribution that vaccination in pharmacies (by the official pharmacist or another person) could make to vaccination against influenza and other vaccine-preventable infections. The Union Générale des Infirmaires de Belgique (UGIB) points out that the administration of a vaccine by a nurse constitutes a technical service of the nursing art subject to a medical prescription (...), which has sufficient training and knowledge, in particular concerning the management of side effects and the administration of first aid in the event of anaphylactic shock. The UGIB is therefore concerned that the authorization of the practice of vaccination by pharmacists does not confer all guarantees in terms of quality of care, the safety of patients, apart from the fact that the doctor must prescribe the vaccine. Therefore, minister, what follow-up do you intend to give to the Academy's opinion? Have pharmacists been consulted for this opinion? If this opinion is followed, will pharmacists be able to refuse to vaccinate if their clients request it? Will they be trained for this purpose? How long should they monitor the patient after the vaccine is injected? What answer do you give to nurses who fear that their actions will be increasingly distributed to pharmacists? How much would a pharmacist pay for a vaccination? Could nurses be included in this process? Would it not be useful to revalue this benefit for nurses?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u36	Madam Minister, in the Committee for Welfare of the Flemish Parliament of 5 November 2019 Flemish MEP Immanuel De Reuse of the Flemish Interest pointed the Minister to the positive opinion of the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium, which stated that flu vaccinations by pharmacists add value to society. One of the arguments cited is that the current system is far from ideal and often leads to double costs for the patient. After all, they have to go to the doctor for a prescription, then pick up the vaccine from the pharmacist and finally come back to the doctor for the proverbial but also literal shot. Another argument is that in this way the risk groups that are not currently being reached can be better achieved. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about the administration of vaccines by pharmacists? Does your attitude change according to the type of vaccine? In other words, do you believe that certain vaccines cannot and cannot be administered by a pharmacist? Have you been in contact with the professional associations concerned in this connection? Are you planning initiatives to create a legal framework in this area and to give pharmacists the legal opportunity to vaccinate if they have received the necessary training?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u37	Thank you for your questions. I have indeed read the recent joint opinion issued by the two Royal Academies of Medicine on the expansion of the authorization to administer vaccines and the vaccination against influenza by pharmacists. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this opinion was delivered at the request of the previous Flemish Minister responsible for welfare and health, Mr Jo Vandeurzen. I believe that this request was made in the context of the vaccination policy to be carried out and for which the federated entities are competent, because I have learned that professional unions, such as the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA) and the Flemish pharmacists' network, are seeking to play a role in the vaccination of the population. I note that the Act on the Exercise of the Health Care Professions, coordinated on 10 May 2015, provides in its article 3 that vaccination is part of the exercise of the medical art reserved for doctors. They must meet all the legal requirements for medical practice. In the same law, pharmaceutical art does not include the administration of vaccines, nor does it refer to the delegation of powers by doctors to the benefit of pharmacists. To date, in addition to physicians, nursing practitioners can also administer a vaccine on prescription from a physician, since the amendment in 2016 of the Royal Decree of June 18, 1990, which regulates the technical acts of delivery of the nursing art. Nurses are allowed to administer the vaccine without the presence of a doctor. They are supposed to organize themselves so that they can reach a doctor in case of complication and in any case be able to provide first aid. I can inform you that with regard to this nursing act and its remuneration, I do not intend to change it. We changed the scheme in 2016 and that is fine. The FPS Public Health is currently investigating whether it is possible to optimise the vaccination coverage of the population by extending the administration of vaccines to providers other than doctors and nurses. This research is carried out independently of professional interests, including nurses. I intend to seek advice from the Supreme Court of Doctors-Specialists and GPs on this matter. I also note that the Pharmacists' Council, established by law of 22 April 2019, has still not been established. Once that has been done, it seems clear to me that he is also expressing his opinion on the subject that the medical profession is prepared to deal with. I believe that there is still a number of opinions to be drawn up on this subject and, above all, that doctors and pharmacists should also be consulted, because I see all kinds of points of view now. This will have to be cleared up. We already have a lot of information, but not everything. You ask me if I will issue legislation in this area. I don't know how much longer I'm here, but drafting new legislation is not one of the tasks of a government in current affairs. Get some advice, that's okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you. I understand that the competence for health prevention and therefore for vaccination falls within the purview of the federated entities, but this is still a federal jurisdiction, since it is a question of an INAMI nomenclature. The message I wanted to address to you on the margins of this question was that it was legitimate and necessary to create a White Blouse Fund, but that it is just as important, besides, not to devalue the nursing profession by expanding certain aspects of the profession – much less hasty and much less by not working with them. The message that comes back to me very often is that there is a lack of staff in the pharmacy. The question is how we can attract more pharmacists without being able to provide them with guarantees in relation to new tasks that would be asked of them. We must pay attention to this point. I hear your willingness to have a consultation with the Higher Health Council, doctors and pharmacists. This is an approach that I fully encourage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u39	Thank you for your interesting answers, Madam Secretary. My colleague has just listed a number of countries in the introduction to her question, but she has forgotten Brazil. Of course, the comparison does not go one-on-one, but in any case the vaccinations are administered by pharmacists. People are laughed at when they go to a doctor for vaccination, which undoubtedly has to do with other cultural historical backgrounds. Smaller things, such as measuring blood pressure or small sutures, are also done by a pharmacist. This has undoubtedly also to do with the coverage of pharmacists and doctors there. It is likely that everyone agrees that there are advantages to the expansion of the group that can vaccinate. For example, the coverage is increased and two visits to the doctor are no longer required. I am therefore pleased to hear that you are investigating what is possible. I understand that you are waiting for some advice, but I will not fail to follow it up. If I have understood you correctly, you will not shoot everything and you will be open to the suggestion of enlargement in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u40	Question No 55001348C by Mr. Ben Achour is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u41	Madam Minister, the report of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre, published on 29 October 2019, shows that healthcare for asylum seekers in Belgium is unevenly organised. Access to health care depends on the status and whereabouts of the asylum seeker. There are about 20 to 25,000 people each year. People staying in a shelter managed by Fedasil receive free primary care. Others are staying in local reception initiatives managed by local OCMWs themselves responsible for financing, for example, children's glasses and painkillers. For unaccompanied minors there is another system where the guardian has an obligation to register the minor in a health insurance scheme. The coexistence of these parallel systems is a complex maze, both for asylum seekers and for caregivers. On the basis of the research, the KCE proposes harmonising the systems and providing a single general envelope. The KCE estimates that this harmonisation is financially feasible because it concerns a relatively limited group. What is your response to the analysis of the KCE report? Do you intend to discuss the report and recommendations with stakeholders and relevant ministers? What measures have you taken in the past legislature to organise health care for asylum seekers less complex and more harmonised? How do you estimate the impact of this? What steps will you take to organise access to healthcare for asylum seekers in a harmonised way? What means will you make available for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u42	Mrs Merckx, I have taken note of the contents of the KCE report to which you refer. It sets out various possible scenarios, such as all reports of the KCE, to ensure more equitable access to healthcare for applicants for international protection, as they now call asylum seekers. A unified system is indeed in the interests of both asylum seekers and care providers. The care providers must have a transparent system and, above all, they must know which care will be reimbursed and how and to whom they will have to bill. For Fedasil there is also a need for more administrative and financial simplification, so that they could deal primarily with their core tasks. My services analyse the different slopes proposed by the KCE. Something's gonna be formed out of that. If legal and regulatory adjustments are needed to implement this simplified system in the future, we are, of course, currently limited in our competence by the current cases. This will then result in a proposal that can be made to the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I remain somewhat hungry, but I do understand that it is difficult in current cases to find definitive solutions. From my own practice, I want to testify that it is not easy to find out what people are entitled to when they come to consult. There must be a whole administrative process in order to be paid if necessary. As a result, I often see these people on a voluntary basis during my consultations. There is also a lack of harmonisation. Some OCMWs pay back certain items that other OCMWs do not repay. So there is also inequality in this area. Harmonisation would be a clearer and simpler policy and would be better for the health of those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u44	Madam Secretary, mental health care is a hot topic, because mental well-being is under pressure from many of our fellow human beings. There is certainly still an unmet need for mental health care, we think. There are gaps in care. In your answer to the previous question, I have already heard you say that you read the reports of the Knowledge Centre with attention, so I assume you have also read the report of the Belgian Federal Health Knowledge Centre on the organisation of mental health care for adults.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u45	Absolutely, I do that at night between 2:00 and 3:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u46	In that case, I'm a little ahead of you, because I'm reading between 1:00 and 2:00. You have no doubt read that the main conclusion is that there is little data available to carry out an in-depth investigation. It is unclear whether or not the available care meets the needs, whether there is overlap or where there are shortcomings. However, we should know that, because our guts indicate that there are shortcomings and unmet needs. The report contains some recommendations. The KCE highlights the need to optimise data collection and data registration at the three levels of mental health care. These three levels do not concern the political levels, but rather the use, needs and supply. The KCE calls for a legislative initiative to this end. There is a need for a single online information point where everyone can access the various forms of mental health care services. For sp.a, accessible and affordable care has always been a focus. Help in mental health must be accessible and as close to the people as possible. Madam Minister, will you cooperate with the Health Care Knowledge Centre by creating a federal legislative framework for data collection and registration of mental health needs? Or, better yet, is that exercise already going on? The Knowledge Centre also explicitly asks for the first line in mental health care to be affordable, accessible and close to the people. That question keeps turning. Have you made an evaluation of the reimbursement of primary care, the psychologist? Is there any possibility of an extension of primary care in mental health care?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u47	Minister, my colleague has just mentioned the subject, and I am not going to read my question again. In the KCE report, there are shortcomings in the ability to know whether the provision of care meets the needs, on the data, on the accessibility of care – there is the cost side and sufficient information, easily accessible to people with mental health problems. Madam Minister, you have certainly read this report. These are such important issues that, even in day-to-day business, we can move forward without disrupting things. There is a need to improve the existing system and improve the flow of information between federal and federated entities. Could there be reasonable progress on effective mental health encoding systems to provide a snapshot of needs and supply? Could progress be made on clarifying and improving the coordination of access to care? Could we move forward on a single online portal as well as on different existing structures? Beyond the jurisdiction of the federal government, it seems to me important that these KCE recommendations can be discussed at an interdepartmental Health conference. It is known that Belgium has the highest suicide rate in Europe, especially among young people. This finding is chilling and must mobilize us. This KCE report on such issues brings added value and must be able to be taken in full hands by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u48	Madam Minister, in 2016 the Belgian government, together with the Communities and Regions, took a step in mental health care. The aim was to focus even more on community-oriented care, in which the person is treated in his own environment. In this context, the KCE was asked to map the organisation of mental health care for adults. That report was recently published. The KCE analysed the scientific literature, databases, websites and annual reports. In addition, it organised focus groups and a very extensive survey of representatives of all players in mental health care. Firstly, there appears to be no reliable data on the needs of our country, which makes it impossible to determine whether there is adequate and appropriate care at present. It is impossible to determine how performant the current organization of mental health care is due to a lack of data. When will the section on the mental health care of Sciensano be published? Secondly, the participants in the research of the KCE indicated that, in their opinion, there is little trust between the field and the governments. They also indicated that the current powers for the organisation of mental health care are too fragmented and that more centralisation would be needed for a performing organisation. What measures could you take in this regard? Thirdly, the mobile teams were considered by the participants as crucial for the care continuity. There were several concerns, including about the large regions, with unclear boundaries; about the scarcity of staff and financial resources, which could not guarantee the presence of a full-time psychiatrist; about the lack of a real hierarchy, because multiple caregivers in mobile teams work for different employers; and about the lack of clarity when they can be deployed. What measures are you going to take, in addition to the additional eight mobile teams you have set up, to meet the shortage of staff and resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u49	Mrs Fonck, Mrs Merckx, this report was indeed requested from the Knowledge Centre because the organization of mental health care was always treated fairly stepmotherly. As regards the recommendation on data collection and registration of mental health care, on 21 March 2016, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health approved the protocol agreement on the collection of the global minimum data, with a view to a common registration of all active mental health care facilities. This approval means that all levels of government undertake to include in their respective regulations the mandatory launch of a common survey of all mental health care facilities. Although the minimum data set was defined, it was never agreed how they would be recorded. One of the starting points was that for a common record, data should be removed as far as possible from existing databases already used in the health sector. Patients should also be able to be followed along their journey of care. However, this implies the use of a unique identification key. It was also agreed that the Flemish government would investigate to what extent RAI-Mental Health and RAI-Community Mental Health were useful to complete the minimum dataset in full or in part. The finding was that this instrument is useful for long-term chronic care, but unsuitable for short stays and outpatient care. An alternative was to look at the invoicing data at the FOD, the RIZIV, the InterMutualist Agency and data from the electronic patient file, but nothing concrete came out of it. The search for a full alternative should be put back on the political agenda of the Inter-Ministerial Conference. A comprehensive scientific study is planned to thoroughly analyse the reimbursement of first-line psychological care by clinical psychologists or orthopedagogues and the possibilities of evolution and adaptation. The steps for the award of the contract will be completed in the coming weeks. As regards the point of access to care and information for users and their entourage, this is certainly an interesting practice. It should be noted that some mental health reform networks have already developed such a system. The part of mental health care that has been investigated by the health survey will be delivered to us in the short term, mid-January. That is what we are waiting for. We are convinced that this will produce important figures, not least because children and young people were involved for the first time, a group on which epidemiological data have so far been limited. Mr Bertels, we have already discussed possible enlargements. I believe that it is essential to use even more on the first line. The same networks should also provide psychological care in the first line to 60+. No other networks need to be created for this. Those people need to be able to stay inside these networks, even after they're 60 years old. Strengthening the outreach teams was a good thing. It was about almost 400 full-time equivalents. They seem to be working well. There's a lot of need on site. People are also confronted with care that is needed at night, at weekends, on public holidays and so on. If one wants to have a permanence where at least one person is always present, then one must have six full-time equivalents in service. That's true for surveillance, and that's true in the centers, that's true for outreach teams too. I believe that the outreach teams need to be strengthened, or there needs to be more. After all, there are those who need to serve a large region. So we certainly need to invest further in mental health care. There must also be better cooperation with the Communities with a view to sensitisation and prevention. We must continue to work on this. Major steps have already been taken, but we are far from there. Emergency's rising all the time. Mr Bertels, I will be pleased to tell you that there are four more reports from the Knowledge Centre on their way to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u50	As far as the latter is concerned, we will soon know what we have done, Madam Minister. All madness on a stick, the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care is an important research institution in our country. That has an absolute added value. As far as we are concerned, the reports of the Knowledge Centre also have added value. We must therefore take up these reports. And I understand you want to do the same, Madam Secretary. After all, the data collection and registration, as agreed in the 2016 protocol agreement to which you referred, did not work properly in practice. I'll express myself very diplomatically. In some areas this has not even happened. We must take that up and ensure that there is proper data collection and registration. Madam Minister, the need for a unique online information point is also great. There are several information points, but they are somewhat diversified. A unique online information point for users is also an absolute necessity. As you know, we support the strengthening of mental health care, that is absolutely necessary. Maximum deployment is required on the first line. It needs to be extended to the sixty-five-plussers. The permanence must also be strengthened. That is absolutely necessary. After all, there are still areas in our country, and that is unacceptable, where there is no care available on weekends and nights because there is simply no offer. Some health care services and security services, for example, the police, are there with their hands in their hair when they need mental health care at that critical time. Madam Secretary, I hope we can get there quickly. You will find in our supporters to strengthen mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u51	Mr President, I will not tell the minister that nothing has been done. Progress has been made, but there are still major gaps in relation to the challenges and findings that need to be addressed. These are important mental health issues and problems. Whether it's about coverage, proximity, financial accessibility, but not just the maze in which patients and families find themselves too often not knowing very well who to turn to, all these aspects must clearly be able to be put on the table to provide very concrete answers between federal and federated entities. I want to say that it is together that the most effective responses to needs must be found, regardless of the levels of power. That must be our priority. Mental health in this maze appears to be a striking element. I hope that, through the interministerial conference, you will still be able to make certain points with the federated entities in the coming weeks, even if we are still in business. Beyond that, with regard to the future government, mental health will have to be a central concern of health policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. If we can be proud of our Belgian health system in general, then there is still a great deal to be done in the field of mental health care if we compare ourselves with other countries. In Germany, for example, a psychologist can be visited for two years with a full reimbursement by health insurance. On the other hand, we have seen in recent years, as part of the savings logic in hospitals, that fewer and fewer beds are available for psychiatry. The first-line assistance provided on site is effective, but it certainly is not sufficient to meet demand. Where many patients could previously be treated in hospitals, this is no longer possible. They're actually in a no-man's-land without care. You also mentioned the problems with the data collection. That is, of course, sad and it is of course wheat on my mill. Because I am opposed to this split-up in our country. It is time to re-federalise certain issues. You probably also heard yesterday about the savings made by the Flemish Government. Mr Beke finally came back to the savings on the suicide line, but there is still a cut in the budget of the Flemish Expertise Centre Suicide Prevention. That is an outrageous measure, and I would have liked to hear your reaction to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u53	I do not want to respond to decisions taken by my Flemish colleague; I would say that each one is miserable. Minister Beke will have to find a solution to that and we'll see how he does it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u54	On the other hand, if you know the number of suicides in Belgium, saving in that sector is really bad for our patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u55	You said it already, shredding health care is not good. Less prevention means more people will be affected by diseases and diseases. Apart from the costs that will be much higher, the misery they face could also be partially avoided. You don't have to convince me, I was the first to say that fragmentation is not good for health care. Anyway, there's gonna be other voices too. It seems that we are going to be able to remedy this with even more fragmentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u56	Minister, since 2018, Questran, used in particular in the treatment of hypercholesterolaemia, is regularly out of stock. This unavailability is not without consequences for the health of patients who really need it. Recently, I have again received the testimony of a family, deprived of the medicine for one of its children who has an orphan disease. Lack of treatment causes severe pain in the child and the parents feel destitute. Minister, what is the current situation in terms of the availability of the Questran? Is a structural solution envisaged or possible? If so, within what time frame? In the meantime, how to meet the immediate needs of these patients at no extra cost? What can you advise affected patients who are far from isolated cases? What therapeutic alternatives are available to cover patients' needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u57	Mrs Tillieux, thank you for your question. The AFMPS was informed by Cheplapharm Arzneimittel that the Questran would be unavailable from August 14 to December 25, 2019. The possibility of a derogation for the importation of a foreign consignment by the firm was checked with the company concerned, but this is not possible because there is a problem of availability of the active substance: cholestyramine. The Questran will be unavailable in almost all European countries. For some indications, however, there are a series of alternatives such as statins and cholecystitis. In this context, patients are advised to consult their doctor. Only the latter can offer another treatment. If treatment adjustment is not possible, the pharmacist may, on the basis of a doctor's prescription and statement, import a medicine based on Cholextyramine. As you know, a bill has been introduced to allow the additional costs of these types of imports to be borne by companies responsible for the unavailability, so that neither the patient nor the health insurance must pay for the addition. In addition, new regulations will make it possible to import drugs for individual patients in a simplified and efficient manner, through the dispatcher wholesaler. Currently, it is the official pharmacist who takes care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u58	Madam Minister, thank you. It is a shame to have to find this unavailability in the long term, because of the unavailability of the basic active substance and which is reflected in other countries. Most European countries question what is the patient's vision. When a drug is on the market, it is still very complicated to hear that the active substance is no longer available and that you will have to stay for six months without treatment. This kind of situation is unacceptable. I hear there are alternatives. I will therefore inform the people concerned of your proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u59	Mr President, Minister, a while ago we read that you are working with eight other European countries to monitor the development of new and expensive medicines and to enforce better prices. I understand that through a central database all possible information on medicines and medicines can be shared under development. In this way, the various governments hope that better prices can be enforced in the negotiations with the pharmaceutical sector. Madam Minister, I simply have a question for a state of affairs and for the practical development of cooperation. Firstly, how should we imagine cooperation? Will it be done through some kind of monitoring system? Can you explain more about how this will be done in practice? Secondly, when is the effective start of cooperation or is it already underway? Thirdly, I have a very factual question. I may be mistaken, but I think I have seen that it concerns Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Ireland, Portugal, Lithuania, Denmark, Switzerland and Norway. I do not see Austria appearing in that list, with which you have an agreement or cooperation with the Benelux countries. Why is that? Is it correct what I saw?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, I very much welcome the creation of the International Horizon Scanning Initiative of IHSI, which is a good thing. It originated from the BeNeLuxA initiative. It is a new step towards international cooperation in the field of medication, together we will explore the drug horizon in search of potentially important developments and trends. These may be expensive medicines that put a great strain on the pharmaceutical budget, or very innovative medicines, which have a strong impact on the provision of health care. Mr Bertels, the design and methodology of the joint system of horizon scanning IHSI is also based on the KCE study Horizon scanning for pharmaceutical products: proposal for the BeNeLuxA collaboration. We have proposed this to nineteen countries at the hotel Bloom. Mrs Irina Cleemput of the Knowledge Centre has proposed the plan there. The IHSI will lead to the creation of a database bringing together all publicly available information on medicinal products in the pipeline. After filtering the products in the database based on predefined variables, so-called high-impact reports will be prepared and an analysis will be provided for treatments with potentially significant impact. These high-impact reports can be used by national policy makers to better anticipate innovative treatments, for example to prioritise drug spending, to take into account the emergence of new alternatives when evaluating existing resources, to identify the place of new treatments in the existing directives, to set up specialised centres and to train health professionals, to identify areas for which there are insufficient treatments, such as unmedical needs and others. The output of IHSI will also allow to identify products that may be the subject of a specific BeNeLuxA project for joint reimbursement negotiations. By beating our hands together, we are stronger when it comes to price negotiations and can certainly be negotiated a better price for social security. Also in the field of evaluation, the health technology assessment of these new medicines, existing expertise can be shared and savings can be made in duplicate. When we talk about genetic medicine, the number of experts is not so high. We share the efforts there, because with more people we always know more. It is an independent body, established as an international non-profit association and financed only by its members, i.e. the countries that are members. Founding an international non-profit association has had a lot of legal problems. I invite you to do the same. The first official meeting of IHSI took place on 29 October with Denmark, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden and Switzerland alongside Belgium. Now that the establishment is official, the tender of the database will be further developed. The call for tender is expected to take place at the beginning of 2020 and the decision will be taken on which organisation will develop the database for IHSI. We hope to have this at our disposal six months after the contract for the database has been awarded, and that a first high-impact report will follow soon. Austria is indeed not part of IHSI, although it remains part of the BeNeLuxA cooperation. However, it is a spin-off of BeNeLuxA. In fact, there is no compulsory participation for the countries that belong to BeNeLuxA: they were allowed to decide that themselves. The current official absence of Austria has everything to do with the erratic political situation there, although we do not have to say much about it. Austria remains committed to joining IHSI. There's been extensive conversations and there's still going on. The Austrians have also provided technical support to IHSI. The country is therefore cooperating, but is not yet an official partner as a result of the political situation there. From many corners of the world, the partnership is followed with great interest. There are also talks going on with other interested countries. The partnership already has nine members. Austria is actually a partner, but not officially. That brings the number to ten. If a few more countries join, we will be able to work on a truly large scale. Then the burden of carrying becomes less, too. We must also find funding for this. In any case, it was not easy to put the link together legally. There is also a whole governance associated with the process. I've been working on the foundation. Now there are meetings and I've appointed a cabinet officer to follow that file closely. It's a nice job.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u61	It is indeed a fine work, which is an excellent starting point. The sp.a has the impression that Sciensano always does a good job and found it an attractive project. What you say strengthens me in that conviction. Let us hope that the project can indeed be launched as quickly as you indicate and that it also provides the basis for better and closer cooperation with several countries in direct negotiations. Thank you, at least, for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u62	Mrs Depoorter has been prevented from attending another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u63	Mr President, I have just met Mrs Depoorter. She will translate her question into a written question, but I would like to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u64	Mr President, according to the Rules of Procedure, can this be done?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u65	Actually, I think the question will lapse. I told Mrs Gijbels that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u66	If a Member is here, he or she has the right to ask the question, but I never knew that the questioner could turn it into a written question. That's going through a different circuit with us. Mrs. Fonck, you've been here a long time, too. We've never been through this. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u67	I told Mrs Gijbels the same way. If the question has been asked, she's gonna end up here. In this case, Mrs Depoorter's question lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u68	Thank you. So my memory doesn't leave me yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u69	Mr President, at least I told Mrs Depoorter that I would ask my question, so I think she can agree with that. Madam Secretary, I'm talking about a cure for cardiac arrhythmia that's been around for 40 years, mexiletine. This also appears to work well in rare muscle disease non-dystrophic mytonia. In the Netherlands, the medicine has been reimbursed for this application since 2014. However, last year the medicine for this application was registered by manufacturer Lupin as an orphan medicine under the new name NaMuscla. Lupin can now set a new price and our northern neighbors fear that this will be a multiple of the old price. In the meantime, we know the system. The old medicine cost the patient about 4,000 euros a year. In the United Kingdom the new medicine has already been marketed and the cost for the patient there is 80 000 euros per year. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what treatment is there in Belgium on the market for non-dystrophic myotonia? Are these patients also treated with mexilectin? Secondly, are there any plans to put this new medicine on the market with us? Is there a request for recognition for NaMuscla in Belgium? Thirdly, has this been discussed at European level? With what results?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u70	Mr President, Mrs Jiroflée, NaMuscla was authorised by the European Medicines Agency on 18 December 2018 with the status of orphan medicinal product. This means that NaMuscla has been authorised as an orphan medicine in every Member State of the European Union, including Belgium. It is the only medicine with the active ingredient mexiletin authorised in Belgium. However, the medicine is not commercialised in Belgium. This means that the company has not yet applied to the FPS Economy for a price determination. You know the circuit. If there is no price determination, no application can be submitted to the CTG for reimbursement. So it's only the firm that can take that initiative. Mexiletin is now also used in Belgium for the treatment of non-dystrophic mytonia. The medicine is imported by the pharmacist from abroad, on prescription and with a doctor's certificate, and thus prepared for the patient. That may continue to happen for the time being, but probably we are not interesting enough to make that application. They could have done it for a year, but they didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u71	That is why I asked if it had already happened at European level. Has it been commercialised in other European countries? Or only in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u72	We only know that we have never received an application and that no requests have been made. Apparently that has happened in the Netherlands. We do not know about other countries, but they have had time for a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. We'll follow up on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u74	Madam Secretary, is it true that you have to leave at 4:30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u75	Mr President, that is correct. I have an appointment for the Warmest Week in Antwerp, which was brought forward. So I'll have to leave sooner than agreed, for which I apologize. Unfortunately, there's only one Warmest Week. I'd say it's a "warm year." I couldn't choose the day either. Excuse me. It's the first time this has happened in all these years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u76	No problem. You're excused.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u77	Mr President, since a number of questions have been asked a long time ago and we will not see each other again until 14 January, I wondered if certain preparations could be communicated in writing so that there would not be another 50 additional questions in January? If I now turn my questions into written questions, but I have to wait another month before I get an answer, and then there are two more vacation weeks... I just wondered if there are any possible preparations that we can share. I'm just trying to be constructive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u78	It's always possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u79	Yeah?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u81	Mrs Creemers asks whether the answer is ready and can be delivered fairly quickly, or whether it will take another month. I assume that this depends on the question in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u82	We must also have the answer translated, because now it is only in the language of the questioner, while the answer to a written question must be given in the two national languages. I'm sorry, but the records are all closed between Christmas and New Year. So it will happen, but I can't dress up like Santa Claus and sit behind those people and tell them what to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u83	That's not the point. Then I'll just leave them as a written question. I just wish that...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u84	Okay, but you have an answer to your question. I suggest that we continue to work for the 15 minutes that we have left, and then you must decide whether you like it or not. If the minister agrees, we are going directly to question 67, because there is a certain urgency that Mrs Fonck will explain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u85	Yes, because there is a certain urgency in relation to the young people concerned. Are you following me, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u86	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u87	Yes, but that question is on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u88	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u89	Yes, but it's a very important question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u90	Mr President, I do not have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u91	These are young medical assistants specialists (MACS) who are expected to leave, for some, as early as January. They have a scheduled internship, and a ministerial decree that you took in 2016 excludes this possibility for certain specializations: the type of level 3, nephrology, hematoclinic, nuclear medicine, neonatal medicine etc. What are we doing with these young people? Will they be told that things are still not settled legally, and that they cannot leave when they have that in their internship? It's very important, Minister. If you tell me that this matter is settled, even if the ministerial decree says something else, but it can be changed, including retroactively for those who have already left the last two years, I will satisfy myself. You will send this to me in writing. It is such an urgent problem that I do not want to wait until the end of January to clarify things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u92	We'll send you the answer. Indeed, the adviser who deals with this matter is not in the firm today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u93	If it's only in Dutch, it suits me very well. I don't need the translation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u94	It's not difficult, but you have to contact him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u95	You also had a question on the same subject, Mrs. Gijbels?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u96	Mr President, I have here a summary of the text of my question, but I would like to make it clear that the subject is urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u97	Do we have to understand that you are turning it into a written question or do we have to wait until January 14 to deal with it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u98	We'll send the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u99	Mr President, if the minister does not have the answer today, we obviously cannot deal with it now. Minister, I imagine you share my concern. I don't know how many young people wrote to me. It's the same for universities that organize internships for them. We must therefore provide a concrete response, including to those who have already left. If they leave abroad for a few months, they cannot be told that this programme is not legally concrete. We will not receive the answer today. It's a little disappointing, but I can hear it. If it is sent to us within 48 hours, Mr President, I would like to remain constructive in thinking above all about these young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u100	I agree, Mr President. Can the answer be delivered to me, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u101	Questions Nos 55001452C and 55001459C by Ms Catherine Fonck and questions Nos 55002029C by Ms Catherine Fonck and 55002045C by Ms Frieda Gijbels are transformed into written questions. Question No 55001468C by Mrs Els Van Hoof is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u102	Madam Minister, dentists who want to work in Belgium need, as you know, a visa to exercise their profession. According to the Royal Decree of 1 June 1934, dental diagnosis or treatment plans are part of dental practice. A Belgian visa is therefore legally necessary for this purpose. However, there have recently been practices of foreign dentists who receive, investigate and draw up a treatment plan without such a visa. Their intention is to recruit patients to have the treatment carried out in the country of origin of the dentist without a visa. Apparently, it is not so obvious to find out about this practice. The Provincial Medical Commission (PGC) has only limited possibilities and can usually only occur when there is a notification. When the file is delivered to the court, it often takes a long time before the practice can actually be stopped. In addition, those who made the notification will not be informed of the outcome of the action. How many files have been reported to the court by the Provincial Medical Commission and when? How many and what statements have been made in these files? What initiatives have you already taken to improve the detection and reporting of the illegal practice of dentistry? Is it possible to consider the reporter of the illegal practice as an interested party and thus also to inform about the progress of the files at the PGC and/or the public prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u103	Thank you for your question. My services, and in particular the medical committees, are aware of the illegal practice of dentistry, including the diagnosis of patients. This practice is fairly recent and especially situated in Flanders. In 2019, two files were reported to the parquet in the province of Antwerp, one file in Limburg and one file in Flemish Brabant. No complaint was registered on the French-speaking side and no file on the illegal exercise of dentistry was transmitted to the public prosecutor. Despite the close cooperation with the prosecutors in the prosecution, the Provincial Medical Committees are not informed of the progress of these cases. These practices are very discreet and very focused outside any administrative framework, outside the framework of RIZIV and outside any hospital framework, and are extremely difficult to reveal. My services can only investigate on the basis of complaints. My administration has already worked to improve the visibility of the register of healthcare professionals, which is accessible to all patients, and in which the patient can check whether the healthcare professional to whom he or she turns has the necessary competences and permissions. Furthermore, thanks to the law on quality practice, a legal basis for a register of healthcare practices has been established. Article 42 of that law provides, inter alia, that a healthcare professional shall communicate to the Directorate-General for Health the following information: a general definition of the healthcare he provides, whether or not that healthcare is provided in the context of cooperation with other healthcare professionals, and the location where he provides the intended healthcare. This register will also be open for consultation by the public and will be available from July 2021. Those who register an unlawful practice with the Provincial Medical Commission will only be involved if they can demonstrate a particular interest. The parquets also do so only in the context of a bourgeois party stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u104	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The work on that land register is indeed a good thing. It is also essential to be able to plan the exact number of dentists and dental specialists needed so that they can be adjusted in time. In addition, it is problematic that there is no order of dentists where dentists have to register. An order of dentists may supervise those who are or are not lawfully employed. It is good that patients are sensitized, but if the register is available from July, I think this can help a lot on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u105	Madam Secretary, centres that offer teeth whitening are shooting like mushrooms out of the ground. You have probably already seen them in different cities and municipalities. They recommend teeth whitening, often in combination with cosmetic treatments. In these centres there are usually no dentists working, but people without a diploma in dentistry or oral care. However, several judgments consider teeth whitening as a dental treatment. Recently, the dental character of bleachen was confirmed by the KB concerning the profession of dental hygienist. It confirms that the bleaching of vital teeth by external techniques may only be performed by dental or dental hygienists to whom this action was entrusted by a dental. In the bleaching centres, not only dentistry are practised illegally, there are also violations of cosmetics regulations. For example, the Cosmetics Regulation contains a restriction on the authorised amount of hydrogen peroxide and a ban on the use of CMR substances, including different boron derivatives, which are considered to be reproductive toxic. Analysis shows that bleaching gels sometimes contain more than 0,1% of hydrogen peroxide, which is more than legally permitted, and/or that they also contain reproductive toxic boron derivatives. Despite the fact that the FPS Health and the FAGG were informed of this some time ago, it is not clear whether action has been taken in the meantime. Are you aware of the practice of tooth palening by non-dentalists and non-mouth hygienists? What action is being taken against these illegal practices? Does the Public Health Office actively take steps against these practices? What other actions may be taken? Does the Public Health Office check the products offered in these salons? Are you considering launching preventive actions to inform the public about these illegal practices and the dangers they pose?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic076x.u106	Mrs Gijbels, tooth bleaching is indeed an act belonging to dentistry. This is therefore reserved for healthcare professionals entitled to do so, in particular dentists and dental hygienists. The Provincial Medical Committees are aware that in some cases tooth bleaching is done by other people. If these activities are taken into account, this shall be reported immediately to the public prosecutor. At present, the Provincial Medical Commission only deals with complaints. In the context of the introduction of the centralised control committee provided for in the law on quality practice, risk studies will be carried out so that a more proactive policy can be pursued that can, if necessary, focus on illegal bleaching practices. A specific information campaign on this issue is not on the agenda, but could be part of the means of action against dangerous practices in health care identified in the context of risk analyses to be carried out by the future control committee. At present, therefore, complaints are only dealt with. If there are no complaints, there is now very little that can be done proactively.
