ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u1	Minister, in 2008 it was promised neither to save costs nor resources to investigate whether the Fortis top people had committed crimes. In 2013, the court was finalized, so that the courtroom could refer the defendants to the correctional court. In the end, additional research was requested. That additional investigation was completed in 2016. Next, nothing has happened in the criminal record for two years and the court now states that there will be no further prosecution, because some of the charges are not subject to sufficient objections and another part of the charges are in danger of being brought to an end. That is absolutely unacceptable. First of all, why have they been sitting still for two years since 2016? Can you just do that? Who's responsible for that? Secondly, to what extent is there really a threat of a statute of limitations? What statute of limitations are we talking about? Thirdly, if the statute of limitations is imminent, why did we not use the friendly settlement in criminal matters? Fourthly, are you considering using your positive right to intrude in order to oblige the court to prosecute the defendants?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u2	Minister, it is always difficult to comment on court decisions, but I can't help but question some of them. In this case, this is the Fortis case, one of the financial cases that cost the community a few billion euros as a result of the financial crisis. I have interrogated you on several occasions on this case, asking you to find ways to allow a judicial truth at some point. What we learned in December is what we feared. In this case, as in too many other cases related to financial crime, a dismissal was ordered in the absence of a decision within a reasonable period of time with the abandonment of the proceedings for fear of statute of limitations. That's not satisfactory. I wanted to ask you in a general way about the means that are available in our justice system in the fight against financial crime. It must be noted that, in too many cases, we are unable to reach a judicial decision. What are the means that you, as Minister of Justice, intend to find on the basis of this finding? In relation to the particular case, do you intend to use your right to a positive injunction to request that the prosecutor's office waive the abandonment of the prosecution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u3	Minister: Mijnheer de voorzitter, mevrouw Lambrecht, Mr Gilkinet, as regards the content and progress of the case, I refer you to the press release issued by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. It corresponds to the report sent to me by the Prosecutor General of Brussels. If you wish, I have copies of the press release with me. Furthermore, I cannot react to the content, in order to avoid interference or to exert pressure on the decisions taken by the judiciary in charge of the current case. So, what's the next move? I would like to stress that the procedure and the prosecution have not yet been stopped. A final action by the court is not a final decision, a final result or a final result on the criminal case. She merely expresses the public prosecutor's view at the end of the judicial investigation, which was led by the investigating judge. It is up to the council chamber, i.e. the judiciary, to take a judicial decision on the referral of the case to the correctional court, on the offense or on the lapse of the criminal proceedings by, for example, the limitation period. During the council chamber there is not only the court that explains his claim. The investigating judge, as leader of the investigation, also reports on the investigation and communicates his findings. The bourgeois parties shall also be given the floor as regards the objections relating to the guilt of the suspected party concerned. On the basis of the dossier, the debates as I have just described here and, of course, the defence by the suspects, the council chamber will decide whether or not to prosecute. A judgment of the Board of Appeal giving a decision to dismiss and/or to revoke the criminal proceedings, in whole or in part, may be appealed to the Board of Appeal, which shall then decide by judgment. In the case of a referral, it is ultimately the judge on the merits, being the correctional court or the court of appeal, who decides on the guilt and the degree of punishment. With regard to the application of the right of positive injunction, I should like to inform you that this competence of the Minister of Justice is no longer applicable at this stage of public action and procedure. Article 151 (1) of the Constitution provides that the public prosecutor is independent in the individual investigation and prosecution, without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order the prosecution and to lay down the binding guidelines of criminal law policy, including the guidelines of investigation and prosecution policy. Parliamentary preparations relating to Article 151 of the Constitution show that under that provision, the Minister of Justice has the primacy of prosecution policy. The College of Attorneys General is under his authority. It shall take the necessary measures to ensure the application of its criminal policy directives if the College does not reach a consensus on the matter, without, of course, being able to pursue the criminal proceedings itself. Parliament's preparations also show that, firstly, independence means that no power can forbid the prosecution or investigation. So there's no negative injunction right. However, that is not the issue here. The Minister can, through his right of insertion, order facts to be investigated and prosecuted. In the present case, however, the case is under investigation and proceedings are under way. It is also important that independence presupposes that the members of the public prosecutor's office have an appreciation margin in the individual investigation and prosecution of a case at the hearing of a court itself. Furthermore, during the parliamentary preparations, it was also explicitly stressed that the prosecutors are completely free to assess individual dossiers. The right of injunction therefore does not apply to any interference in the facts of the proceedings, to the use of remedies, to the taking of actions or to the determination of the content of the motions during the sittings in individual cases. With regard to your question on the means of the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, I can inform you that seven posts are currently vacant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the very technical explanation. However, I have not received an answer to my question as to whether there is a limitation period and what the deadline is. If there is such a threat of limitation, why did we not use the procedure of amicable settlement in criminal matters here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u5	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your answer. As I said, it is always difficult to question the Minister of Justice on an ongoing case. Indeed, it systematically refers to the principle of the separation of powers, which we accept. Minister, let me note with you, however, that from a societal point of view, the situation is not satisfactory. The Public Prosecutor's Office is the representative of the general interest. It is symptomatic of the state of our justice, particularly with regard to the fight against financial crime, that we have not had enough resources and time to try to arrive at a judicial truth in such important cases. I urge you, as I have done on several occasions, even if the government is in the business today, to consider that the fight against this type of financial crime, given the suspicions that have been raised against the leaders of Fortis, must be a priority for our judiciary and for the Minister of Justice that you are. If not, there is a risk of despairing our fellow citizens about the ability of justice to act to protect the weakest and punish those who must be, and who have sometimes cost the community a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u6	Joined Questions No 28144 by Mr Marco Van Hees and No 28145 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u7	Minister, on the occasion of a football match between the Bruges and Anderlecht teams last August, supporters have chanted anti-Semitic songs. Without lingering on the unworthy and unspeakable words – which can only provoke disgust and reprobation – I would like above all to take note of the follow-up of this issue by the public authorities. The Bruges club wanted to react to this incident and I quote one of its press releases: "A few days after the meeting, the Bruges Club was notified of these facts by its own supporters and stewards. The Club managed to identify these people and excluded them from their stadium before initiating legal proceedings against them." De facto, it would appear that a number of perpetrators have been clearly identified and could therefore be prosecuted. Minister, can you confirm that this matter has been dealt with by the judicial services? Notwithstanding the secrecy of the investigation and the strict respect for the separation of powers, what can you communicate to us on this file? Have any alleged perpetrators been identified and questioned by the courts? What measures have been taken to strengthen collaborations with football clubs to combat all forms of racism and anti-Semitism in forums?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u8	Mr. Minister, in December 2018, the website of La Dernière Heure published images of supporters of Club Bruges after the game against Anderlecht of 26 August. There some supporters used anti-Semitic songs. They sang among others: "My father was in command; my mother was in the SS, and they burned Jews together, because Jews burn best." On the announcement of stewards Club Bruges had already identified people who sang along and imposed a civil stadium ban on them on the day after the match. In addition, in a reaction to the facts, the court informed the police that they were waiting for the police report. Such facts are not an isolated case. Examples of anti-Semitic songs during football matches can be found both at home and abroad. During a match between Antwerp and Beerschot-Wilrijk in April last year, spokesmen were heard against the Jewish community and there was also a banner with an anti-Jewish message. In the Netherlands there have been problems in 2017 as a result of the match between AZ Alkmaar and Ajax, in which supporters of AZ sang the same anti-Semitic songs that could be heard after the competition Club Bruges-Anderlecht. Supporters of English Chelsea sang anti-Semitic songs last month during the European match against the Hungarian Vidi. An administrative sanction procedure, also known as the football law, was adopted at the end of 1998 in order to speed up the sanctioning of wrong supporters. That law provides for the possibility of condemning anyone who leads to beatings and injuries, hatred or anger in relation to one or more persons either alone or in group in the stadium or even beyond. In addition, the football club or the football association can always act and impose a civil stadium ban, as was done by Club Bruges. Finally, it can, of course, still prosecute persons on the basis of criminal law. This can even be done in parallel with an administrative sanction based on the football law. The football law and the police are powers of the Minister of the Interior and I have therefore also asked Minister De Crem a question. However, I have the following questions for you, Minister. Does the court already have a report on the cited incidents after the Club Bruges-Anderlecht match? If so, can you tell us what action the public prosecutor has taken on this, bearing in mind, of course, the separation of powers? How often has the public prosecutor's office decided to prosecute before, during or after football matches? Are there any trends in those numbers that you can explain? In how many cases were the supporters effectively punished? Has the court in the past been prosecuting specifically for anti-Semitic behaviour in connection with a football match?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u9	Mr President, Mr Calomne, Mr Vermeulen, the Prosecutor's Office authorizes me to inform you that judicial information has been open since 20 December 2018, when the Bruges police area drew up a report on the basis of a previous administrative report. Until then, the facts of the game against the Royal Sporting Club Anderlecht were not known to the police. Individual data subjects have not yet been identified for the facts of 26 August 2018 and therefore have not yet been questioned. In any case, KV Club Bruges has pledged its full cooperation to identify. Regarding measures to strengthen cooperation with football clubs, a meeting is planned on 4 February 2019 between the Public Prosecutor's Office and representatives of Unia, in order to include these facts in a positive football project aimed at combating racism. Many issues have already been resolved and other initiatives are under way. I refer first of all to the 2006 circular of the Minister of the Interior, which aims to raise awareness among all partners on the ground and to encourage them to take preventive action, but also to combat these phenomena effectively. In 2018, the Pro League presented an action plan on offensive and discriminatory slogans, and is currently working on the creation of a toolbox for coaching and diversity training in sports clubs. A federal grant for equal opportunities was granted for this project. In conclusion, I would also like to mention the Jo Vanhecke Fund, created with the support of the Football Cell of the Federal Internal Public Service, the Football Union and the Pro League, which supports projects aimed at improving the safety and social functioning of football. Finally, unfortunately, the College of Attorneys General cannot provide me with the statistical data requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u10	Minister, I thank you for the various elements communicated, including the football match that has been discussed, but also for the measures that you are telling us, including this meeting to be held on February 4, 2019. It is important that the public authorities become aware of this and step up their efforts at this level, as the younger generation follows sport, football in particular. As a result, we would like to further promote the values of team spirit, fair play rather than seeing this type of behaviour that promotes racism or anti-Semitism. Minister, thank you for these points of answer. We will remain attentive to the development of the situation because the construction site is certainly not finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I find it very strange that Club Brugge can identify his own supporters, even though it doesn't even succeed after so many weeks. It's like there are two different worlds of identification where the weakest-equipped can best identify. It is also regrettable that no figures can be given by the College of Attorney General. Perhaps more attention could be paid to this in the future with a view to better policy work. With regard to racism, and more specifically anti-Semitism, I would like to point out that a large study from 2013 showed that nine out of ten people questioned believed that anti-Semitism had increased significantly over the last five years. Recently, in December 2018, a similar study took place in which 16 400 Jewish people were interviewed throughout Europe. After those first five years, nine out of ten respondents now say that they are seeing a further degree of anti-Semitism. Well, I think we should come to the point where neither local authorities, nor organizers of events, nor Home Affairs, nor Justice, are allowed to accept anti-Semitism in any form. In my opinion, anti-Semitism policy is also best integrated into the future Integrated Security Framework Paper and into the National Security Plan. In the shorter term, it is best to issue a letter clarifying criminal policy, which better addresses the facts of negationism and anti-Semitism. To this end, together with my colleagues Metsu and Klaps, I once tabled a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u12	Question No 28153 by Mrs Matz is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u13	Mr President, I think Mrs Lambrecht has another supplementary question. Of course, I am not the one who sets the agenda, but out of courtesy to my colleague, I would like to quote this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u14	Mr President, Minister, I would like to point out that I have not just received any answers to my third question on Fortis. The answer may also be that you do not want to answer, but perhaps you have seen about it. My question was why they did not call for an amicable settlement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u15	Mrs Lambrecht, your question just now was double, and you also informed us about the statute of limitations. I referred you to the press release on page 3: "After a further thorough analysis of all the documents in the criminal record, it is now not possible, according to the public prosecutor's opinion, to establish with sufficient certainty that all the necessary constitutional elements for a crime of fraud can be demonstrated in annual accounts. In doing so, account was taken of the criminal definition of the charge, legal and economic data of the case and of previous court decisions at home and abroad. According to the Brussels Office, the removal of this charge has meant that the other facts are timebarred. At least the limitation period shall take effect in the short term." That's what the press release says. In connection with the friendly settlement, the Minister does not intervene in the motives why the court is considering a friendly settlement. The public prosecutor has not provided me with any information on this matter, and I cannot therefore reply to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u16	Mr President, Minister, my first question was a written question which was converted into an oral question because the deadline had expired. This one's about the chargers. My second question I submitted afterwards and is about the amnesty. Together with the new obligation to authorise ammunition loaders, a transitional regime was also announced for the licensing obligation. It would be easy and free. However, in practice things do not turn out so smoothly. In order to get a full picture of this, I would have liked to have had a number of questions answered. How many applications have been made for authorisation and approval of loaders since the new law was announced? Can you tell me how many professions have been filed and how many of them have been treated positively or not? My second question is more general about the outcome of the amnesty. The amnesty period, introduced by law of 7 January 2018, ended at the end of last year. In the middle of September, you gave an update on the matter. At that time, the number of reports of illegal weapons was rather disappointing. It was about 8 687 illegal chargers, weapons and ammunition. This is only a small fraction of the large number of weapons that circulate in our country, at least 200 000 illegal weapons. Can you give me the complete results of this action? How many illegal weapons, ammunition and chargers were handed off? How many applications for authorisation and approval of loaders have you received? Can you also explain to me more about the professions, as mentioned in the first question? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u17	Mr De Groote, as far as the statistics for the previous reporting period - for firearms, chargers and ammunition - are concerned, the answer remains to be found. The relevant implementing act requires the governors to report to the Minister of Justice. In their turn, they must first process all the declarations of the local police forces. It'll take some time. The number of administrative appeals submitted is not yet known either, as new professions will be available in the coming months. Nevertheless, I intend to submit a report on the reporting period to Parliament on my own initiative this spring. Mr Degroote, I have to nuance the figures you have mentioned. The number of unauthorized firearms in our country cannot be credible. During the reporting period from 2006 to 2008, approximately 200 000 firearms were declared. That is why we cannot expect the same numbers this time, but still many thousands. In particular, with regard to bullet chargers, I would like to point out that the intertwined legislation for the majority of the gun owners did not lead to any result because they are automatically allowed to keep possession of the chargers that belong to their licence, hunting leave or sportsman's license. Only those who collect chargers or trade in them had to make a declaration free of charge. According to preliminary figures, not all provinces have yet been included, this concerned only 414 applications for the whole country. The control role of police forces and governors is not strongly influenced by the new rules on chargers. Only those who collect only chargers and not firearms should now be checked every five years. It concerns not more than a few hundred people. Thus, a tightening of the legislation on chargers did not create a major administrative workload - either for the arms owners or for the provinces or security services. In the light of these findings, the criticism from a certain angle of the arms lobby is all the more incomprehensible. The legislation closed an important gap that posed problems for public security. The fact that chargers are harmless in themselves could also be said to be about firearms or ammunition. I do not join in such reasonings. Without chargers, weapons are useless, so it seems obvious to me that their assets had to be regulated. By the way, the new rules largely follow those that already existed for ammunition. In addition to the sale, it was necessary to frame the possession of chargers. Otherwise, we would not be able to act against supplies abroad or against persons who claim they already owned the chargers prior to the legislative amendment. Thanks to this policy choice, a Belgian who buys chargers physically or via a web store abroad, without having a legal title, is punishable in our country. However, it is worrying that it is now being claimed that Belgians can purchase chargers via foreign websites without any prior checking. We absolutely must avoid making it easier to circumvent the new rules in this way. That is why, together with the College of the PGs, I would like to look at how this situation can be remedied. Mr Degroote, I may have answered questions that you did not ask because Mr Terwingen had also asked questions. It seemed purer to me to immediately tell all my story rather than forget certain things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u18	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I regret a little that the figures are not yet available. You say that will take some time. In my opinion, this should be possible rather quickly. You may not be able to do much about it yourself, but I would insist on some urgency. It seems to me, therefore, that certain elements or circumstances involve some kind of brake. They're being held back to press charges. You are talking about the arms lobby, but I think that perhaps we should sit at the table with the peaceful owners of weapons in order to make such an amnesty period more successful. I believe that, between the lines of your answer, the amnesty period will not have been successful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u19	Questions Nos 28206 and 28207 by Mr Olivier Maingain and No 28256 by Mrs Barbara Pas are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u20	Minister, last week I questioned you about the delay in delivering uniform clothing for prison staff. You confirmed at that time that there was indeed a delay in the provision of uniform clothing for the security staff and the technical staff, and that on average there were three pieces per rightholder. You also replied that there is no remuneration or compensation for your own purchases. I promised I'd ask you again about this. If people have to do their work but do not have a customized costume because the supplier is in liquidation and a new supplier still has to be appointed, it seems to me only logical that they should receive a compensatory allowance when they come to work in their own clothes. They are entitled to uniform clothing of the service for which they work. Mr Minister, do you agree, first of all, with me that people who have to wear uniforms for their work should receive compensation when they come to work in their own clothes, because the uniforms they are entitled to are not available? Secondly, when will the affected staff receive what is due to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u21	Mrs Lambrecht, uniform articles are ordered by the right holders on the basis of a point system. The current rules on the provision of uniform clothing do not provide for financial compensation for the items of clothing used for which no delivery took place. It is stressed that the most important items considered necessary for the proper performance of the contracts, i.e. those which distinguish uniform-bearing staff from prisoners, such as shirts, polo shirts and shoulder marks, are delivered in full and in good time. On the basis of these elements, there is no question of compensation in any form whatsoever. The delay in the delivery of other important clothing items such as trousers and jackets will be eliminated this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u22	With all due respect, Minister, you cannot agree with what the services are doing to you now. Guardians are people with a very low wager, who practice one of the most difficult professions there is. Thanks to their uniform, they get a little authority. Now that they do not get any clothes to exercise that authority in substandard prison buildings, the alarm bell is finally being drawn as to trousers and coats, and you say that they do have shirts and polo shirts. You could have said that I was right and that, even if the government is in current cases, it would have worked out a settlement and put it forward. You'd certainly get support for that. After all, guards carry out one of the most difficult professions, and in very difficult circumstances. Imagine not even giving nurses clothes to practice their profession! You're sending me home with an answer that no one can agree to. I am sure that you would find support across party boundaries for a compensation scheme for the guards who have to do their job in their own clothes in difficult circumstances. You're missing an opportunity here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u23	Mr Minister, it has not escaped anyone that the news has been sparked by the announcement of the theft of several objects within the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, located in the Portalis building. The subtilized exhibits included a hard drive containing autopsy data of victims of the 22 March attacks as well as information on the terrorist attack at the Jewish Museum - the trial of which had just begun. We are all deeply shocked by this flight. Our first thought goes, of course, to the victims and their families and relatives, to whom there is additional grief. We are also concerned about securing the premises of the justice services. So, Minister, I would like answers to the following questions. According to the information at your disposal - and with clear respect for the confidentiality of the ongoing investigation procedure - how can we explain the theft committed at the prosecutor's office? How could the existing security measures have been thwarted? Have any faults been identified and, therefore, closed? What measures have been taken to secure access to the premises of the justice services, in particular those of the public prosecutor's offices, but also to support good practices in the use of data carriers? In this regard, is it not possible to encrypt hard drives and other computer media?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u24	Mr Calomne, last week, I already discussed the issue of judicial buildings here. On that occasion, I indicated that some were in very good condition, while others proved to be defective. The Portalis falls into the first category. A security policy has been developed for all judicial buildings on the basis of a risk analysis. Portalis is a building in the highest security category. In addition to the public prosecutor's office, the premises house investigative judges, juvenile courts and the probation board. The security system provides for access control by means of identity verification and scanning, as well as a 24-hour and seven-day-a-week permanence by "surveillance & management" staff. The presence of a private guard company and the police is also on the day. The Portalis building is subdivided into a part accessible to the public, a private part - working area - and finally highly secure premises. Traffic axes are adapted accordingly, as is the overall system for badges. The medical examiners' work area is on the ground floor. After passing the access control, anyone entering the building also has access to the medical examiner's office. A request for additional work has never been submitted. This is hardly illogical, since these premises must remain accessible to the public, for example, for the victims' inability to work. In addition, each door shall be locked separately in case of absence. Indeed, computer hardware shared with the Justice FPS is secure. However, the external hard drive was not the property of justice but of the medical examiner and was therefore kept under his responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u25	I thank the minister for the answers he has given us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1018x.u26	Questions Nos 28318 and 28320 by Georges Gilkinet were postponed.
