ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that the agenda for this afternoon start with the oral questions. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that you start this afternoon's agenda with the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u3	Mr President, I had put a question to the Prime Minister about the demonstration of 15 000 pupils today on the streets of Brussels for a different climate. There is a sense of urgency and there is a need for a thorough debate. Prime Minister, you answered questions about the demonstration of 75 000 people three weeks ago. I really don't understand why you're doing it today, apparently, because students don't think they need to just answer, while you're here in Parliament, what you're going to change about climate policy in Belgium. You are here, you can answer my question, but you refuse to do so. I cannot accept that, Prime Minister. I would ask you, Mr President, to have the Prime Minister answer my question today, technically speaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u4	I will answer you technically, Mr Hedebouw. The answer to that question will be given by the Minister for Energy, Mrs Marghem. That answer binds, as usual, the entire government. What she says, she says also with regard to the pupils, with the full weight of the government. I suggest that we proceed with the order of the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u5	Mr President, the Prime Minister replied to questions about the three weeks ago demonstration. The debate is not just about Mrs Marghem's powers. It is also about SNCB and about international politics. So the Prime Minister could also reply today, as he did three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u6	I repeat to you that the government, even if it has resigned, is one and indivisible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u7	Mr. President, Prime Minister, hard or soft Brexit? That's definitely one big question. But the main question, Prime Minister, is: which Europe tomorrow? This issue is more relevant than ever after the British Parliament rejected the EU withdrawal agreement negotiated between Mrs Theresa May and the Twenty-Seven. Everyone can realize, if necessary, that getting out of the political project of the European Union is a perilous adventure. Our political, legal, but also human, economic and geographical ties are very important; let alone our common core values. Whatever the outcome will be by 29 March, it is a matter of preparing for the future. A dual mission is given to you: to protect our interests, but also to relaunch the European project which has failed, under the blows of the Eurosceptic forces, like those unfortunately printed by your government Michel I. It is therefore up to you, Prime Minister, to ensure that all actors work together to protect us against the negative consequences of a no-deal for our economy, our SMEs, our universities, our nationals, our researchers, our jobs – more than 40,000 jobs are involved, should we point out? – but also our administrations and standards. It is also up to you, on behalf of Belgium, to relaunch a European Union focused on the concerns of its citizens and not on purely accounting rules. Prime Minister, what concrete steps do you intend to take to prepare our country, its administrations and its businesses for the consequences of a hard or soft Brexit? What position will you take in the European Council in these different cases, in particular in connection with the recent statements by Mr Michel Barnier?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u8	Prime Minister, over the last few days, the Brexit has not been removed from the news, fortunately. After all, if there is something that will have a very strong impact on our future and prosperity in the short term, then it is the Brexit. I am thinking not only of the miles of congestion that will arise at our borders, but also, and above all, of the many additional rules and controls, the rising prices, the jobs that can be lost and the uncertainty for the companies and for the many Belgians who have been living in the United Kingdom for years. Since the British Parliament rejected the agreements with Europe, a hard Brexit seems more likely than ever. So we no longer have the time and luxury to muddle and wait and see which direction it will go. Our neighbouring countries are already preparing for the worst: The Netherlands has recruited almost a thousand extra customs officers and in France the government now has special powers of attorney, so that it can act quickly when a hard Brexit comes. In our country, of course, there is a difficult political situation with a minority government. That is not what you wanted, Prime Minister, or what I wanted, but it is because one of our partners left. In any case, it means that we do not now have the strength we need at times like these, because if we want to secure our jobs, our prosperity and our businesses, then we must be able to act quickly and decisively. I am therefore pleased, Prime Minister, that you and your government are taking responsibility for working on an emergency law. In doing so, we will need to show sufficient reasonableness and common sense in order to best combat the risks posed by the Brexit. My question is therefore brief and simple: what is our plan of action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, Theresa May failed to get her deal with the EU approved by the British Parliament on Tuesday evening. Nor does it appear that this will happen in the short term, even if there is an alternative proposal on the table. The urge for absolute sovereignty, which we have heard echoing in this hemisphere in recent weeks, has ended in complete chaos. A no deal seems more and more likely. It's only logical, Prime Minister, that you and your government should move up a gear. Of the Belgian companies that export to Britain today, only 20% are prepared administratively to continue exporting after the Brexit. It is therefore essential that we continue to approach our businesses proactively and that we continue to help them. In particular, we must continue to help our SMEs, who usually do not have enough resources and knowledge. Your government has acted proactively. After a meeting with the representatives of Belgian companies, Minister De Croo published a Brexit list. It was also decided to recruit 245 additional customs officers, on top of the additional 141 that had already been promised. The companies that export to Great Britain today have already been proactively given a customs number. So it looks like we on our side of the Channel are doing our job and preparing ourselves for that hard Brexit. If we continue to make a mess of things on the other side of the Channel, then we must be very concerned. We saw a small-scale test with rows of trucks in Dover a few weeks ago. It was all in the soup there. So this doesn't promise much good. Prime Minister, I have the following questions. What additional initiatives and actions can we expect from your government to respond to the questions of our Belgian companies? What is the outcome of the Brexit debate in the United Kingdom? Will they be prepared for a hard Brexit there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u10	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group will take a constructive approach to the problems once again raised by the poor administration of this government in our country. The assignment for which you are standing is to find a solution for the mess of Van Overtveldt. A soft Brexit required three hundred additional officials, a hard Brexit four hundred officials. In Van Overtveldt's planning 141 new customs officials were provided. There are 71 of them. Prime Minister, how are you going to deal with the problems caused by Van Overtveldt? Then there's Ducarme's mess, too. A soft Brexit required sixty new veterinarians, a hard Brexit undoubtedly a lot more. Can you tell me how many veterinarians have been recruited for animal control? There's also Muyters' mess. I am not saying that, because the President of Alfaport said on television this week that the big companies in Flanders are prepared, but the small ones are not. I now turn to Minister Peeters of Economy. What is this government going to do to bring small and medium-sized enterprises through this difficult period? Another point I would like to touch here is the fact that the Socialists are very concerned. We are very concerned because we see that a British strategy is gradually developing with the maximum possible entry into the European internal market of 450 million inhabitants, but with as little burden as possible. We fear that in the short term we will face a Singapore in the North Sea, particularly unfair competition from the United Kingdom, where we will be producing under very favourable fiscal conditions. Corporate taxes will go down, social protection will go down, environmental protection will go down, with a very negative impact on the progress we can make in these three areas: taxation, social affairs and the environment in Europe. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to ensure that we do not go below the minimum threshold for taxation, social protection and the environment. If we receive these guarantees, we are prepared to cooperate with your emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as was said on Tuesday evening, the House of Commons rejected the agreement that had been reached with the other 27 European member countries for an organized exit from the United Kingdom. One last chance remains in Theresa May, this Monday night, to convince his deputies. The press also said that the deadline of 29 March could possibly be postponed. But for that to happen, the other 27 countries would have to agree unanimously. The United Kingdom is the fifth largest economy in the world and Belgium's fourth largest trading partner. More than 25 000 Belgian companies export annually to the United Kingdom. If we look at the agri-food sector, for example, it is an export turnover of 2.7 billion a year, or 10% of the export of this sector. These figures are on the rise every year. Mr Prime Minister, in the face of an increasingly certain no deal, what steps could be taken to counter the negative effects of this no deal on our economies, on our Belgian economy? Would it be possible to involve our regions? Is there anything planned with our other European partners? How can we help our businesses both administratively and financially, because it is more than likely that they will be faced very quickly with customs formalities and taxes to be paid to export to the United Kingdom? Nor should we forget the phytosanitary standards for the agri-food sector. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, what steps could be taken to secure European funds for the countries most affected by this no deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the resurrection, the resurrection of Theresa May, is indeed a fact, but despite the fact that the sword of Damocles, the Brexit, is hanging over our heads. Of course, we would have preferred not to see Brexit, that is clear. Rather we had chosen another way, or at least a trade-friendly Brexit, where a longer transition was possible. Until now, this hard Brexit is not a fact, but after the vote earlier this week in the British Parliament where the trade agreement was voted down, we must prepare for the worst. There's no other way. We must make sure that we are ready, because in the case of a hard Brexit there will be no transitional arrangement, no backstop, and then international relations will simply disappear from 29 March. The United Kingdom is no more than a third country. It's an island; it won't drift away, it'll stay there. For Belgium and especially for Flanders, the United Kingdom is also an important trading partner. Mr Prime Minister, in view of this Brexit, I would like to put forward three priorities. In the first instance, we will look with great interest at the federal Brexit Act, an emergency law that you will submit. This law is needed for several cases that have already been listed, such as customs control, the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency, the right of residence and work cards. Basically, every Brit here is a migrant. Secondly, the Brexit is a priority not only for the government but also for Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you. In our opinion, the full Parliament is best involved in the discussion of this Brexit Act. That is why we are proposing a Brexit week, a period during which all the departments involved in the committee meetings will carefully examine the measures to be taken. It is a complex straitjacket with a lot of rules and applications. Finally, the Brexit must be given all priority because the Länder must and must remain involved, which is an absolute must for us. Many initiatives have already been taken at Flemish level. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to what extent do you wish to involve Parliament with the committees in the discussion of your announced large-scale Brexit Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brexit is indeed the choice of the British people, who made it more than two years ago. I do not need to remind you that we regret the choice of the UK. We want to do everything in our power to ensure a strong relationship in the future with the UK, which must remain a strong partner for us. In November 2018, we, the 27 Member States, reached an agreement with the UK Prime Minister on the first phase. In the case of this first phase, this withdrawal agreement was discussed in November. The British Parliament, two days ago, expressed its rejection of this withdrawal agreement. Through this message, the British Parliament says what it does not want but does not say what it wants. This is probably the reason why the Prime Minister has taken the initiative to engage, at this very moment, in discussions with the various parliamentary groups in an attempt to clarify the British position. Secondly, I confirm that, in November and December 2018, we, the 27 European Member States, decided, just like Theresa May, that the agreement reached is the best possible agreement. That is an important point and an important signal. This means that, in our view and in my view, it is not the responsibility of the 27 European countries to pay a political price for political difficulties in the UK on the back of our citizens and our businesses. This means, therefore, that in the coming days there will be several theoretical possibilities in Britain. The ball is first in the camp of Great Britain. This may be the activation of Article 50, the early elections, a referendum mentioned by some in Britain. We'll see about it. Still it is that even if a hard Brexit can still be avoided, which is of course our preference, it remains that we must prepare. We haven't waited the last few days to do it. It has been months since we started the work discreetly because we did not want to disrupt the negotiations led by Michel Barnier. It is certain that if with drums and trumpets we had announced preparations, we would have rightly been criticized. This would have shown that we did not believe in the success of these negotiations on this first phase and on the withdrawal agreement. I would like to try to be as concrete as possible in this respect. Is it a difficult situation now that the Belgian government is in current business? Yeah, that's definitely the case. Those who have chosen to do so must also accept the consequences and the invoice in the current difficult circumstances. There are indeed jobs and investments at risk and serious difficulties are coming to us, both for SMEs and for large companies, including a lot of administrative burdens. That is the reality today. That is why we must remain alert and work hard today. As a result, the decision was immediately made, within the framework of the Select Ministerial Committee, to propose legislation to the government this Friday, hoping to bring it to Parliament. This text has long been prepared by our experts and provides for adaptations of our regulations on the various very concrete subjects. I give some examples. It is a technical, detailed and important text. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, the text deals with citizens' rights. Everyone understands that the Brexit for families, people here in Belgium and Europe as well as in the United Kingdom, is a new situation. The UK is becoming a third country and that is another legal situation. It is therefore essential to adapt our regulations to determine provisional periods, within a framework of maximum reciprocity, in order to ensure that rights that would be given to British citizens here are also granted to Belgian or European citizens in Great Britain. It is therefore a question of citizens' rights. Secondly, the importance of our companies. We have worked hard, not only in recent days but also in recent months. In the context of the summer agreements, for example, we have already taken the basic budgetary decision to recruit additional staff for customs and the food agency. We have decided to reform the way in which customs work to try, in case of hard Brexit, to facilitate the lives of businesses to the maximum, or rather to reduce the difficulties that will be facing them tomorrow. To this end, we would like to organise maximum communication with small, medium and large enterprises so that they can prepare themselves. With the Employment FPS and the Minister, we are working on the macro-economic impacts and the consequences in terms of social inspection I take another example: employment contracts. These are governed by rules. Today we belong to the customs union, to the internal market. These contracts will be affected by the potential impact of this situation. Companies that work daily through parent companies or subsidiaries will be impacted. They will wonder how they will now be treated legally. Here too, answers must be given. Another example concerns climate and energy policy, given the interconnection with the UK for the sake of security of supply. In the last few weeks and months, we have realised important investments in this area. Take, for example, the Nemo project. We need to adapt our legislation so that we can legally guarantee continuity and limit as much as possible the collateral effects. As some have mentioned, food security is also a very important element. Many agri-food companies are directly involved in Britain and Belgium. More inspectors will be required, probably 300 more employees according to the analyses carried out, in the same way as we proposed to increase customs staff for food security at the Employment FPS. Perhaps this will also be necessary for the police because of the checks that will have to be carried out. As you can see, there are a lot of issues that need to engage us. We count on Parliament's responsibility, given the political situation, to ensure that these pieces of legislation can be debated and voted on as soon as possible. This will give a maximum signal of stability on this subject. One final important point at European level is the European budget. I remember the fascinating discussions that have taken place over the last few months on the financial future of the European Union. Concrete responses to this challenge are a signal of the credibility of the European Union. In this regard, we have been mobilizing with the ministers concerned for many months on two points in particular. Firstly, the Commission's budget proposals aim to reduce our financing capacity in relation to customs duties. We plead for the maintenance of the 20% rule for customs duties. It's very important to us. The battle is not won but a fortiori, with the impacts of Brexit, there are additional arguments to fight politically. Secondly, we believe that the countries and regions most affected by Brexit must be able, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, to benefit from European solidarity through the Globalisation Fund or the Cohesion Fund. There are points in this area that we need to discuss. Finally, I want to be clear. We will remain vigilant, we will accept our responsibility, even now that the government is in current affairs after a choice that has put us, businesses and citizens in a more difficult situation. But the Länder also have an important responsibility in this respect. The division of powers in our country means that the Länder must also be ready. That is why I asked the Länder in the Conciliation Committee to play their part. I intend to organise a new meeting of the Consultative Committee as soon as possible, hopefully in the course of next week, in order to ensure that the Länder not only make speeches, but also take action and take concrete decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u14	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. My group will obviously be constructive when it comes to defending Belgian and European interests. We will therefore pay close attention to the texts that you will be submitting very soon. As you said, Brexit is not our choice. However, it is only if Europe questions itself in depth, in particular through a genuine social policy of recovery and the fight against dumping, that no other Brexit will happen. It is not a question of declaring war on Britain, as a result of its sovereign choice. Nor is it a matter of granting him privileges. This would create an extremely attractive dangerous precedent for all those who would like a European project for the best but never for solidarity or to guarantee our common values. If, like the statements made by Michel Barnier, you think that a Brexit soft would be the best solution, perhaps you could proactively contact your British colleague to tell him that if she deviated from that line she called "red", Europe could perhaps reconsider her positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I think it's a good idea for the government to take matters into its hands. I am thinking, among other things, of the recruitment of customs officers and additional auditors for the BFSA. It is important, for example, that progress is made for the port of Zeebrugge and that controls are possible. Of course, we all have to take responsibility. You must do that with your government, we must do that with Parliament, and so must the Länder. We must all do this together in the general interest. We must secure our future and our prosperity. In addition, it is important that we can act decisively. I heard Mr Luykx's proposal to organise a Brexit week here, but we've had so many Brexit weeks here. At the moment when there is a hard Brexit, we need to be able to act quickly, in the interests of our country and our companies, so that we can ensure our competitiveness. I hope our government will.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. My group has every confidence in your government. It will do what it can to help our companies so that they can continue trading with the United Kingdom. We cannot influence the decisions of the British Parliament and the British Government, but your government can take measures to enable our companies to continue trading. Moreover, I am very pleased that today we have a government in current affairs and a Parliament that can fully function. If some people in the hemisphere had had their way, Parliament would have been dissolved today for early elections. It would have been even harder for the government to take measures for our companies. Prime Minister, you take responsibility with your ministers and the three parties and you show responsibility, unlike other parties. I trust that the entire Parliament will also assume its responsibilities and support your emergency law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply, although I must say that it does not reassure me. I have not heard from you any commitment to the protection of the European continental social model, a model based on social protection and fair taxation. I drew your attention to the danger posed by Singapore to the North Sea. I haven't heard from you about that. We have received Baron Buysse, President of the Brexit High Level Group. Two years ago, Belgium came to the Chamber to warn about the possibility of a hard Brexit. I'm fixing two cases today. Firstly, as far as additional staff are concerned, I refer to Van Overtveldt's mess: 71 of the customs officers have been recruited, they are currently in training, but they will not be finished on 29 March. How quickly will you recruit and train the 70 missing customs officers? Then there's Ducarme's mess. You didn't say anything about that. I have the impression that no additional veterinarian has yet been recruited to carry out checks on animal products. Prime Minister, we want to be constructive. If you come to the Chamber with your emergency bill, give your ministers concrete information about what you have already done. For two years you have been aware of the problem and now you are asking us again: this is the illustration of the government's malgovernmentalo to adopt next week's emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u18	Prime Minister, thank you for the additional information you have provided on how the British government and parliament work. There may still be a possibility to find a solution for Brexit at this level. I also hear that the government will take the necessary steps in favour of our businesses, which create jobs and growth. Our group will support you in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u19	Mr Prime Minister, the Brexit Week, which we are proposing, must not be a new round of palaves. It should serve to discuss the Brexit with Parliament and the government in current cases. The fact that the government is in current affairs does not prevent the government or Parliament from dealing with the matter. Mr Van der Maelen referred to the government's mess for the second time. Well, I can say one thing: over the past four years, the government has done nothing but clean up the mess of decades of PS and sp.a. Prime Minister, you say that you did not wish for a government in current affairs. In that connection, I would like to point out that you did have a choice. You went to Marrakesh, not us. Now we have to row with the belts we have. We will be constructive, as we have always done in the past four and a half years. You can count on our group when it comes to constructive work!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u20	Madam Secretary of State, when you were Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration in the previous legislature, you admitted around 200 people on humanitarian visas every year. Your successor, and in the meantime your predecessor, has developed that exception procedure into a common channel. He increased the number of humanitarian visas granted to more than two thousand per year in recent years. The idea was to break illegal trafficking in human beings by bringing migrants here by legal means and a prior selection, but in practice a system of trustless confidants was developed, a system that makes malicious practices possible. Due to a lack of transparency and control, the state acts almost itself as a human smuggler. The judicial investigation will show whether Melikan Kucam abused vulnerable people and, for payment, passed on lists of names to the cabinet of his party colleague Francken, who left the hemisphere for a while. If that is true, then the absent Francken bears the full political responsibility. The role of the victim in which he is wallowing today, I therefore find misplaced. I am trying to imagine his reaction if he had been in the opposition and if he had issued visas in similar circumstances, on Unkelinx or Milquet. Prime Minister, Minister, there is a need for clarity in all areas. In the meantime, you have requested and granted the number of visas, to whom and in what way, but my question is what the consequences will be. If you have that information, will you check those requests again? Will these applications and awards be reviewed if it appears that fraud has been committed and that the award was unfair and unjustified? Perhaps the most important question is whether this government will place the emphasis on transparency and control rather than laying down criteria. They ensure that this is enforced and that humanitarian visas become a right, rather than a favour. Humanitarian visas must once again become an exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u21	Colleagues, I forgot to tell you that the government's answers will be given by the Prime Minister and then by Mrs De Block, since the questions were addressed to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Asylum and Migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u22	Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, my questions relate to a particularly sordid and disgusting case of human trafficking. For months, a municipal councillor in Malines paid a high price - up to 14,000 euros, according to my information - for visas to people in extreme distress. He chose them, not according to their degree of distress, but their ability to pay. In particular, he had contacts with a city that I know well for having visited: Derik, in northern Syria, where a Syriac community lives. He traded at a high price, without the possibility of discounts - for months. He was in constant contact with the cabinet of former Secretary of State Theo Francken, through one of his collaborators: Lies Verlinden. Moreover, he does not hide it, since this information is on his Facebook account. He went to Beirut to supervise these people. At that time, according to my information, he had received an official warrant from the Office of Foreigners to receive them. As a result, he carried out an absolutely heinous trafficking, the target of which was people seeking to flee the war and the Islamic State. It lasted months, thanks to extensive complicity. The European Syriac community based in Brussels, outraged by this situation, launched an alert on 11 October, quoting amounts, referring to what was happening, speaking of a "gang in contact with a Belgian parliamentarian". This signal was sent to European parliamentarians. However, this traffic continued. In the end, Belgium is involved in a heinous trafficking of human beings, targeting a population whose distress is extreme. Mr Prime Minister, that, in my view, deserves a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I weigh my words. I ask for full clarity on this matter. I ask what the government knew. Why did it last so long? Why, after an alert had been issued, was nothing done by the Secretary of State and your government? How was it possible to do so, even though the new Secretary of State had been able to modify the procedures and criteria for granting in 24 hours? How is it possible that our diplomacy - through our representation in Beirut - and the Foreign Office could have been involved in such trafficking?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u23	Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, but what irony! Only a few months ago, Theo Francken, at the time Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, did not hesitate to assimilate NGOs such as Médecins Sans Frontières to human traffickers, whereas, obviously, it was in his own entourage that they could be found. Trafficking in human beings, criminal organisation, passive corruption and extortion: it is indeed all this, and nothing less, that is suspected and accused of an elected N-VA who allegedly traded humanitarian visas. Making money on human despair, taking advantage of the need for human beings' asylum, is what traffickers and smugglers do. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have denounced on many occasions, and rightly so, in this House. The facts are obviously serious and shocking; they require a few questions. The first question that arises concerns the practical plan: how is this possible? Today it is said that whole lists were deposited in the office of the Secretary of State by the communal elected N-VA, since the issue was of its sole competence. The question of the existence of filters can legitimately be asked. While we have been pooled for months with the need to strengthen controls and limit access to the territory, is it only at Mr Franken that there were no filters or controls? On the political side, what do we think when we hear Mr Franken himself saying that he has heard rumours of such trafficking? Has he initiated an internal investigation? Did he have these rumors checked? If not, why? Did he only think about reviewing the procedures? I imagine that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister will be able to answer my next question, but it seems essential to me. Since when was Mr. Franken aware of these suspicions? We can dare to ask ourselves the question: why did he not, as he is obliged to do, himself warn the authorities of the existence of these rumours? Colleagues, remember that here, both he and the minister of the interior at the time explained to us that prosecuting traffickers and smugglers was a priority. I come to my questions, Mr. President. An investigation is under way and justice must indeed be allowed to do its job. But Parliament must also do its own. That is why yesterday we asked for hearings in the Committee on the Interior, without closing the door, as my colleague said, to a parliamentary committee of inquiry. I have a few questions for the minister who is exercising this jurisdiction today and who inherits this issue. Can you, Madam, explain to us what procedures have been put in place? What did you do to change them? Have you, yourself, possibly granted humanitarian visas. If so, how many? Above all, we learned that we needed intermediaries. You're talking yourself about having reliable intermediaries. Can you tell us how you will assess their reliability?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u24	Prime Minister, for months, what have we not heard, in an attempt to counterbalance the disastrous effects of an immigration policy that involved collaboration, for example with a Sudanese dictatorial regime, that the policy of humanitarian visas was the human dimension of your government's migration and asylum policy. All this to realize that there were, no doubt – justice will tell us – occult influences, or even directly assumed within the office of the Secretary of State responsible for this competence. When Myria's 2017 reports were reread, it was noted that the centre was already pointing a finger at the disproportionate, unjustified discretion of the Secretary of State in this matter and warned the government about this. Mr. Peeters recently stated in the press how much Mr. Francken believed in this discretionary power and clearly refused to submit to any control whatsoever. I hope that the explanation of this power so much appreciated by Mr Franken will not come from justice rather than from our parliamentary control. But no matter what happens in this scandalous affair, it has been a long time since several voices in this Parliament - and we are now - called for legislation to set the criteria and conditions for the issuance of humanitarian visas. There is no justification for discretion in this area. On the contrary: because they are humanitarian, they must meet strict conditions and selective criteria. Prime Minister, I ask that there be, during the short period between us and the elections, a common will to develop legislation urgently to put an end to any discretion in this matter. This is the worthy answer that citizens are entitled to expect in the face of the upcoming scandal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u25	Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the N-VA left the government in December is the only reason why Theo Francken should not resign today. Every day new objectionable elements do appear. On Facebook there are videos of an N-VA municipality council member handing out documents in the streets of Beirut. With what mandate? Nobody knows. Theo Francken has had to admit today that he has been aware of the rumors about visa fraud since September/October. He didn't do anything with those rumors. He did not go to the police, something one might expect from a normal citizen and certainly from a secretary of state. He did not order his administration to investigate this immediately, whatever one might expect from a member of the government. That's incomprehensible. A person who so much likes to accuse NGOs of trafficking in human beings must now recognise that the traffickers are in his own party. That is a very sad observation and completely unacceptable. You are politically responsible for this scandal, Mr Francken. You have made the choice to work with these kind of shadowy intermediates. You have admitted that you have worked with no less than seven subcontractors. Who they are, no one in this house knows. Green has warned you about this since 2015. We have called for cooperation with the UN official bodies, with clear criteria. To all these questions about greater transparency and control, you have never wanted to answer us in Parliament. Is it normal for me to look around, ladies and gentlemen, that until recently nobody had heard of Melikan Kucam in this house and of the crucial role it has played in issuing official documents such as humanitarian visas? Mr. Prime Minister, had you heard of Melikan Kucam until recently? If you had known what role your former Secretary of State had assigned to that man, you would have acted, should we hope? Isn't this an agreement within the government? Apparently, colleagues, the freedom of action on humanitarian visas was too great for this Secretary of State. The abuse we are seeing today is the logical consequence of that. The abuse and arbitrariness must be done, that must stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u26	Mr President, first of all I would like to say something about the instrument of humanitarian visas in itself. I believe that this is a very valuable and precise instrument which must be handled with care and care, precisely in the interests of the most vulnerable. So careful and careful means that we must also take account of the fact that the Minister has so-called discretionary powers. So he can make those decisions on his own. Indeed, there are no clear criteria in the law. Allow me, among other things, to disagree with Mr Maingain. I was responsible for that jurisdiction for six years. Regularisations were also on the agenda at the time. The fact that there are no clear criteria in the law has a reason: no matter how precise one tries to define certain criteria, there will always be residual categories. It is therefore a discretionary power, but that does not mean that Parliament cannot be given a number of directives. However, it remains an individual consideration. I would like to make a second point. Precisely because it is so important, there is the rule of caution, Prime Minister. Caution means that a Secretary of State or Minister must surround himself with the necessary advice. These opinions may come from NGOs, from the United Nations or from the administration, but they are not emperor-kosters. The use of intermediaries to whom one subcontracts and delegates the power for a piece is very dangerous in itself. Those intermediaries, without any title, come to issue lists which give some people a visa and others not. That's basically the system's negation in itself. We have seen horrible images of this in Pano. It has been a system or a method, Madam Minister, because there is evidence in Pano that the system has been stopped. If the system is stopped, then there has been a method. We saw terrible images of the market in Beirut, Mr De Vriendt, where visas are sold and distributed. Party soldiers may sell tickets for a mussel soup, but they do not sell visas on the market in Beirut. So there's a criminal responsibility. That's the job of the public prosecutor and of the investigation. However, we need to know who knew what happened at what time and what happened to it. There is also a matter of political responsibility. The Secretary of State in question has resigned and is no longer a State Secretary. However, Madam Secretary, I would like to know how that system worked. Hearings in the Committee on the Interior certainly seem to me to be on the agenda. Then we know how the DVZ dealt with this method, what exactly happened and how those instructions were given to the administration. Mr President, a Parliament with full powers must urgently address these questions in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u27	Prime Minister, the reason for my questions was the communication about Pano's investigation and the Antwerp public prosecutor's office. This revealed human trafficking but also the sale of humanitarian visas at market prices. The parquet has to deal with the guilt question. The government has set itself up as a bourgeois party, and that is a good thing because the bottom stone must emerge. I would say never washed a good crisis to improve business. However, we must consider political responsibility, strict but just. It concerns the humanitarian visa files and the system in which the Secretary of State was able to decide autonomously and entirely on his own. In that system, he could draw all by himself. With this system, in exceptional cases, extremely vulnerable people can be given legal access to our country. So we shouldn't throw the kid away with the bathwater. When this procedure starts to be used to distribute and sign thousands of visas, we need to start thinking about criteria, control, supervision and, if necessary, an ex post audit. To whom have we all granted humanitarian visas, from what regions and from what background? It's the least one can do. I'm very collegial. Several members of the committee, both from the majority and from the opposition, have asked questions and asked the Secretary of State to change the N-VA sheet on humanitarian visas. The worst part of this story is that we do not know now whether the humanitarian visas that were issued were indeed extremely vulnerable people, or whether they were people with a thick wallet or with the right political relations. At the same time, and that is the cynical thing about the story, the Secretary of State has decided to introduce a quota of 50 asylum applications a day, which means that extremely vulnerable people have to sleep on the streets of Brussels. Strict but just is far to be desired. Madam Secretary, I have a few questions. How was the granting of humanitarian visas in the past? How do you intend to do that in the future? What is the guarantee that vulnerability will continue to play an important role? I have just seen the Prime Minister communicate with you with his eyes, Madam Secretary. What control will you now exercise on the humanitarian visas issued over the last three years? What will you do with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u28	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, we learned in the Flemish press that a communal councillor N-VA de Malines was arrested and placed under arrest as part of a judicial investigation into possible malfeasance in humanitarian visa decisions between 2015 and 2018. This investigation is carried out by the judicial police and deals with serious facts, such as trafficking in human beings, criminal organization, passive corruption, extortion of funds. This municipal councillor would have received large sums of money to allow residents of conflict zones to travel to Belgium with a humanitarian visa of the type "rescue operation" in exchange for money-free passes under the visa procedure decided by the office of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. This is a serious matter for several reasons. First, there is the exploitation of the distress of people fleeing countries at war. Secondly, this case involves a public agent, a representative of the people. Finally, this case could call into question the responsibility, negligence, nonchalance of a ministerial cabinet in charge of the case, perhaps simply for not having taken the measure of information known for some time and not relayed. Minister, what is the status of the situation? Has the government formed a civil party? How many humanitarian visas were issued between 2015 and 2018? What is the nature of the lists that served as the basis for issuing these visas? How were private intermediaries selected? What will be your position on the issue of visas? Will you put an end to this practice? Have you announced that you only want to work with reliable intermediaries? Can you be a little more explicit about what you mean by "reliable intermediaries" and the limitation of your recourse to the Office of the High Commissioner?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been as angry as Tuesday evening. I heard on the news that humanitarian visas were being cheated. I was angry because it is scandalous that some people are enriching themselves on the hood of people who are in one of the most vulnerable moments of their lives. I was angry too because this could have been avoided. How many times have I asked in this hemisphere and in committee, during debates and during questions, to make the system of humanitarian visas more transparent and objective? I have repeatedly insisted on this, but they would not listen. They preferred freedom, happiness and self-determination on the basis of a number of intermediaries. This has now led to abuses that the public prosecutor will investigate to the bone. However, that is not enough. We ourselves must also look at where it has gone wrong, how it has come about and what we can do to avoid it. Where did it go wrong, colleagues? The fact that a Secretary of State or a Minister has the freedom to decide on humanitarian visas is not a problem in itself. It's about an exceptional favor. It is a way of responding to exceptional situations, so that people who are very difficult and vulnerable can be brought to safety. However, this freedom does not mean that everything is non-binding. The fact that decisions are taken alone does not mean that no rule of good administration should be followed. On the contrary, this should encourage greater caution, more transparency, more care and more control. By not showing this care, the former Secretary of State paved the way for arbitrary and even political clientelism. That is his political responsibility. I also note that the DVZ used to use a certain way of working, screening whether someone was in a vulnerable situation, and on that basis the Secretary of State was advised. Now the DVZ says very explicitly in the media: we have not been involved in any way except the security check. It was the cabinet that drew up the lists. After that, it was passed on. No more advice was asked from the DVZ, no more screening of the people, nothing. Why did people suddenly change course? Why didn't the DVZ get to speak on that anymore? Did they have more confidence in a number of intermediaries than in their own administration? What's the reason for that? Prime Minister, I trust that you will investigate this and that you will start an administrative inquiry to find out how it went, why it went wrong and what measures can be taken to make the system transparent and objective. That is what we have been arguing for years. Prime Minister, you have always found an ally in us for a strict but just migration policy. These two go hand in hand, but justice is very far to be desired in this. We are counting on you to restore that balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, humanitarian visas are one of the legal ways to prevent trafficking in human beings. These traffics were often denounced by your predecessor and he was right. It seems, however, that trafficking is not what we thought. Indeed, we have all learned with dismay that we could obtain a humanitarian visa for Belgium by paying expensive, very expensive, an intermediary from Mr Theo Francken's office. Now arrested and charged, Mr. Kucam is a communal councillor N-VA, close to the former Secretary of State and other former ministers of this party. Madam Minister, you will agree with me that it is unacceptable that humanitarian visas intended to literally protect the lives of people should be granted on the basis of the thickness of the portfolio or the proximity to a particular politician or party, in this case the N-VA. A party that constantly learns from others in terms of objectivity and firmness of the measures to be taken with regard to asylum and reception. Today, the former Secretary of State is playing the spooked virgins about the facts. However, in all cases and in view of the long-standing corridor noises, given the elements that have been brought here by each of my colleagues, the puzzle takes shape. It seems that Mr. Franken should have appealed and brought the matter before the court. Minister, the facts are serious and ask for clarification. Here are my questions. What is your reaction and that of the government? Have you conducted an internal investigation and what are the first conclusions? Do you already have any evidence to confirm the suspicions revealed by the press? Did you ask your predecessor, Mr. Franken, for an explanation? Finally, what about the legal proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u31	Mr President, I would like to make three points. Firstly, a discretionary power is not an arbitrary power. The discretionary power therefore does not mean that there is no need to be held accountable. However, this has not happened in the situation we are discussing today. Accountability, also vis-à-vis the Chamber, was refused. The names of the intermediaries are not known, nor is it known how the humanitarian corridors work. Secondly, a discretionary power must be exercised with care, i.e. in consultation with the administration to whom advice is sought. That has not been done, if necessary. There have been no contacts between the intermediaries and the Foreign Office and no interviews have taken place. Thirdly, the Secretary of State can choose the intermediaries himself. That means he has full responsibility for his choice. The intermediaries must meet criteria: they must be impartial and independent. Now, Mr Francken, a party politician of yours cannot possibly be impartial. It cannot therefore meet the criteria which an intermediary must fulfil. So that is not a policy, but chaos and malpractice. Why? Because the Secretary of State is working on his personal promotion. Theo touring, Theo sending, Theo tweeting and Theo sending books, but how humanitarian visas are awarded to his cabinet, Theo doesn't know, even though it is one of the spearheads of his policy. The defence is, as usual, a calimero attitude claiming that the trust was abused. In reality, it's just a chaotic decision-making process. What happens now? There's plenty of framing. "One has abused my trust." Oh, my God! That's how I know the party: a dwarf in politics and a giant in communication. For example, words were used as "Marrakesh government," while it is actually about the "Francken Pact," because his cabinet was involved for two years, but didn't really know what was going on. The other parties are so good. Colleagues of the opposition, you're being very good. However, you could also frame, for example by talking about the "Kucamkabinet" and using the hashtag "kucamkabinet." But you don't. To be honest, I am increasingly under the impression that the N-VA, with its departure from the government, has taken the flight ahead. Prime Minister, how could this happen within Michel I? In Pano it was said very clearly that it stopped from the Michel II government; then it could not or has become more difficult. Have other ministers not asked questions about this? Or were they, as I read in the newspaper today, half barked off? How could it actually happen within your government that a discretionary power, which is a delicate power, was exercised in such a sloppy manner without questioning it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we learned from the press a few days ago the revelations about the extremely serious and shocking facts that were denounced. I must say from the outset that I share the very strong words and the expression of indignation and anger. If these facts are proven, they are serious and shocking. They are serious and shocking because they exploit the most fragile, the weakest. They are serious and shocking because they also undermine confidence in the rule of law, in democratic institutions based on trust in those who assume responsibility. I would like, as others have said, to consider that the principle of a humanitarian visa as a legal method of migration should not, in my view, be called into question. Humanitarian visa is a technique that can be used, and it is, for example, in the case of resettlement, when we work with agencies that are directly dependent on the United Nations. When we learned of this information in the small ministerial committee, action was immediately taken. That is a first important message and signal. We have faith in our justice system. And, of course, we will work fully with the judicial authorities to find out the truth. We have also taken the decision of principle to give a lawyer the mandate to appoint such a party. Indeed, the State, the government, our country may also be a victim of these very serious acts if they were to be proved in the course of the judicial proceedings. Then I come to a third important point. Indeed, we immediately asked the Minister to launch an administrative inquiry. We hope to obtain as soon as possible more information and clarity on the various individual situations and on the scope of the facts, of course with full respect for the separation of powers, which is also important. I also believe that it is up to Parliament to assess how it will consider the continuation of its work on such a subject – it is not my role. I took note of the fact that the first committees had been convened with requests for hearings. It goes without saying that the minority government in day-to-day affairs will cooperate perfectly with Parliament to make available the information we have on this subject. As you can see, we responded immediately to the information we received. We will remain very committed to ensuring that such facts, if proven, cannot be repeated. It is the question of the rule of law, democracy and dignity that is at stake. A few weeks ago, we had lively and heated discussions on the Migration Pact. One of the major challenges was the determined struggle against those who exploit human misery. At the United Nations rostrum in September, I put in the same bag the populists and extremists, who surf on migration to try to win votes, and the smugglers to reap money. I persist and sign. We will be very firm on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the testimonies in the Panoreportage were also a surprise to me. It's shocking to have people in distress pay for help. I therefore hope that the court will settle the matter to the bone and, should the facts be proved, that the guilty will be punished. The damage is already considerable, first and foremost for people who have been involved, people who have had to pay money and have therefore received humanitarian visas. They are now in an uncertain situation and are concerned about their fate. The fact that they paid for this is no reason to withdraw their residence papers. They are primarily the victims of the people who have asked for money. Punishment wouldn't be the right method. It also means that their possible asylum applications will be dealt with in the same way as any other application, including with the necessary investigations. I repeat this in French because it is a very important point for the victims. All this is first of all gravis for those people who, in some cases, have had to pay very large sums and who are now worried about their fate. I'm not going to take away their residence papers because they paid for them. For me, these people are also victims and I do not intend to punish people who are victims of crimes committed by others. This means that their possible application for asylum will be treated in the same way as other applications. Humanitarian visas are normally issued through the diplomatic post, but the decision is the responsibility of the Office of Foreigners. Mrs De Coninck, vulnerability is indeed the criterion. Vulnerability is a decisive element in getting that visa. The damage that has now been done to the image of humanitarian visas is considerable. It is even so bad that the humanitarian visa system is being called into question by some people, for example by Mr Maingain. Should a system be abolished because abuses have taken place? I'm not serious. I continue to defend the instrument of humanitarian visas. Those visas certainly have their use, because they saved many people who were in great need. We must also remember that many people in the past have been helped by these humanitarian visas. Let me give you the example of the action in Aleppo. People had to be saved there, and that operation went well, with consular support from the Foreign Office. All decisions were taken in accordance with the procedure. After that, however, it apparently went wrong. At a later stage there may have been abuses of the system. When looking at the reportage we cannot get rid of the impression that there is a certain perfume the clientélism. As a result, the quality requirements have not been followed. This is what we can't accept, that people could come here safely, not because they were vulnerable, but because they could afford it. I didn't know about intermediaries, because in the three years I was responsible for matters, I didn't work with them. I closed the door for that, too. Apparently they knew, because I heard in the report twice that it couldn't be done, because there was another government. So it was already known on the ground and I did not know that they would have tried it. As in the past, resettlement will be possible through reliable organisations, primarily the UN Refugee Agency, as well as through reliable NGOs making proposals, provided we have sufficient guarantees that their process is correct and transparent and that good screening is done by our services in the lists. Individual applications are still possible; I have already authorised them in two dossiers, but that remains the highest exception. An in-depth investigation has also been requested from the DVZ. We want to know how many such visas have been requested and granted, by whom and in what way, and whether that has been done with an instruction, with an email or orally. Meanwhile, it is known that there were several intermediaries. We also want to know which intermediaries have submitted which applications to the DVZ. All I have left is preliminary figures. It's a big investigation, since a lot of applications have been made. With the greatest care, I can say that, according to the first findings for 2018, some 600 people have received instructions from the Cabinet in this context. In about two hundred files Melikan's name pops up. Those are provisional figures. All of this is being investigated in greater detail. I hear and read all kinds of proposals to review the system. Should we maintain criteria? Should we do the screening in a different way? I don't think so. The method was good in the past. She can continue to prove her worth. I'm open to debate. However, I would point out the risk of criteria, as Patrick Dewael said earlier, in order to be able to intervene legally and humanitarianly. I look forward to the suggestions that will be made in the House. However, I would like to point out from the outset that we must not make the mistake of removing this very valuable humanitarian instrument or of making it de facto impossible to implement. That would be a mistake. I therefore call for humanitarian visas to continue to be used, but in a cautious and economical way and only for vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u34	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is clear that humanitarian visas must remain the exception and that the principles of vulnerability must also be control and transparency. I am pleased that you do not use the opaque and arbitrary method of intermediaries. You have said before that you will call on the UN Refugee Agency. Please be aware that this does not rule out the risk of corruption at all. If you want to rely on the agency's expertise, do so. If you'd like to ask the agency for an opinion, do so. As far as the risk of corruption and abuse is concerned, so are those NGOs, which are often themselves smugglers. The essence is that the government itself must set priorities, decide for itself who, from where, which extremely vulnerable people will give them humanitarian visas. That decision and control must be with the government, because it is this country itself and not a UN agency that must decide and control who enters the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u35	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. This party, therefore, has placed migration and the fight against irregular migration at the heart of its political agenda, now in the midst of the greatest scandal in terms of trafficking in human beings in recent years. He shamefully exploited human misery – yes, Mr De Roover! – through your municipal councillor in Malines. But not only: he had permanent contacts with your Secretary of State. You forgot to recall, Prime Minister, that he had officially called on this communal councillor, who had received official letters of mission to visit these asylum-seekers in Lebanon. And so this party is engaged in such trafficking! Mr President, I think we have received a tiny part of the answers to our questions today. That is why I demand that all the clarity be made and that a parliamentary committee of inquiry be set up. According to the initial information, at least two hundred people were the target of this individual. Between one and two million euros have thus been diverted from the pockets of these poor people. According to the letter I quoted from you earlier, they were asked to pay between 3,000 and 14,000 euros per person in order to be able to come to Belgium. I recall that we went to find people who, as the main quality, had the means to afford this visa and that thousands of other people – including in the Syriac community – who were crying for one, never received it because, although in extreme distress, they did not have the financial capacity to afford this trip. These people were ignored by the cabinet of former Secretary of State Theo Francken. I find this very scandalous and demand that all the light be shed in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u36	Prime Minister, Madam Minister, it was therefore necessary for the N-VA to leave the government and for Mr. Franken to be gone so that I could not only agree with your comments on asylum and migration, but also applaud them. Like you, I share the feeling that traffickers, smugglers, abusers of human despair, are to be put in the same bag as populists and all those who convey these stinking far-right ideas. Today, we did not get all the answers. Be sure that the Socialist Group will do everything in its power to obtain them! Today, my thoughts go to Mawda's parents, to this Syrian family in Aleppo, which has earned us some debate in this assembly, and to all the others who, in addition to being victims of the war, may also have been victims of a two-speed humanitarian visa system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u37	Prime Minister, Minister, it is because the humanitarian visa procedure is indispensable that it must be supervised. It is because we may learn in the next few weeks to the extent that the scandal extends, including in the governmental spheres of the previous Secretary of State, that it is necessary to prevent this scandal and its possible repetition. That is why I think it is necessary to review by law how this type of humanitarian visa application can be handled. Similarly to the fact that an application for asylum does not fall within the discretion of a minister, the granting of a humanitarian visa should not fall within the discretion of a minister even if there are possible statutory controls ex post facto. An independent body, similar to the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons, should be responsible for examining how humanitarian visa applications are to be processed. Whenever in some jurisdictions the discretion of a minister or administrative authority was so cowardly that there was no real-time opportunity to verify how that authority was exercised, there were abuses. Each time, the solution was to consider that an independent judicial authority should be given the power to deal with such applications. That is what I am proposing, because that is how we will prevent the recurrence of such scandals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,'strong but just'. How cynical this N-VA slogan sounds today. There is nothing fair about this kind of visa fraud. On the contrary, this is purely clientelism. Only people who sat in Kucam's closed circle and could pay his bill got a humanitarian visa. We cannot even say with certainty that this does not mean that the most vulnerable have fallen out of the boat. Now what? We appreciate the outstretched hand of the Prime Minister and Mrs De Block, and we will get to work. It is not yet on the agenda of next week's Home Affairs Commission, but I propose that hearings be placed on that agenda in consultation with the chairman of the committee. For our group, the first person to explain to this House is Theo Francken himself, on a subject on which he has been silent all these years. He needs to clarify what went wrong in this whole case. We must also come up with new proposals, Madam Minister. We will certainly do what we have been saying since 2015, namely to put forward new proposals to clear and improve this system of humanitarian visas. We are talking about more parliamentary control, criteria and working with official bodies. I am going to look for a basis for support so that we can make good use of the few months left in this House to set up a better system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maingain, we will not convince each other here, but there is a fundamental difference between asylum and a humanitarian visa. One is a right, the other is a favor. We can do that favor to the most vulnerable. That is a fundamental difference. I am pleased, Madam Secretary, that you have shown a great deal of empathy with the victims. However, what we cannot accept, Prime Minister, is that the victims of these traffickings are now being punished a second time, without being able to promise them today that they can extort rights from anything. We are not going to punish them again, but at some point they too will have to be subject to all procedural rules. I also think it is important to say, Prime Minister, Madam Minister, that this is a very selective system. We must not throw the child away with the bath water today. They were friends of fellow party members who provided lists on the basis of randomness. Whether it was paid for or not paid for, the research will have to prove, but the system used is a perfide system. In this way, we were creating an additional migratory channel, which is not the intention of the humanitarian visa system, as demonstrated by the ever-increasing numbers in the annual report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u40	Mr President, first of all I would like to endorse Mr De Vriendt's question to include Mr Francken in the hearing. After all, the N-VA says nothing today and does not make any comments, so that is really necessary. Madam Minister, you can also, of course, call on legislation for victims of smugglers. It sets out a number of procedures for dealing with these dossiers. I am pleased, Prime Minister, that you are fully aware that this souk policy is seriously undermining the credibility of your asylum and migration policy over the last few years. This is particularly painful because it makes it even more difficult for the most vulnerable people, while the migration debate is already so difficult in our society. After all, people really don't understand it anymore and they look at it like it's a mafia practice. Finally, Prime Minister, I can imagine that you did not understand why you were unable to reach an agreement, despite the fact that you did your utmost to achieve this. Well, this incident is the great explanation for the Government's fall over the Marrakesh Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u41	Prime Minister, Minister, I thank you both for your clarifications, which are at least necessary at this stage. Minister, I understand that you intend to implement all the measures to ensure that this extremely sensitive, certainly human, subject matter is managed properly. Prime Minister, all means must indeed be made available. This includes judicial investigation and perhaps also a special committee, depending on the hearings we have decided to conduct in the Committee on the Interior. We must not hide our face: to shed light on this matter is also to ensure that a ministerial cabinet is not involved in this matter. When I say "ensure," I wish I could say "ensure." This case is already sufficiently scandalous.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u42	Mr Prime Minister, I note that you, like me, are angry and outraged and that you want to respond fervently to this exploitation of the most vulnerable. I note that, like me, as well as Mrs De Block, you do not want the system of humanitarian visas to go down, because that is good for exceptional situations, both in individual cases and in the case of humanitarian corridors and resettlement. I also note that, like us, you are asking for a judicial inquiry and an administrative inquiry, so that we in this House can be more clear about who knew what when. Why were some jars kept closed? Why was the DVZ conducted far from a possible advice or screening of the candidates? Why weren't police and prosecutors called in immediately? You, like me, want to focus on greater transparency, which I have been asking for years in this House. That is why, Prime Minister, I am counting on you, and of course on Mrs De Block, for a more human policy rather than an arbitrary one. For a policy that is not organized on the basis of "us knows us" or political clientelism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u43	Minister, the facts are serious. Mr Franken's political responsibility is great. Today, many questions remain unanswered. For example, why did your government never investigate visa channels through religious communities, while the number of humanitarian visas was rising sharply, while the Myria Center, as early as 2017, had alerted about the opacity and potential deviations of the procedure? Of which act! Now, justice must do its job in a comprehensive, timely and effective manner! Parliament is ready to put its hands on the dough as well. You can count on us. We would also like to learn from it. An asylum policy that stigmatizes some and favours others without objective criteria cannot be a good asylum policy. It's neither fair nor effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin with a wink at you. When you started with the Michael II government, you thought you were rid of Mr Francken, but you are still dealing with after-sales services. In this case, we will call it "service after a runaway." Ladies and gentlemen, seriously, we must ask ourselves whether what we are doing here makes sense. In the facts, there is no control of the government here. Colleagues from the majority and colleagues from the opposition have asked questions about these humanitarian visas, but they have not received an answer. A minister who doesn't answer can do that here in the Chamber, which is perfectly possible here. But when that happens, there's really no point in what we're doing here. Then there's no point. The Chamber must be the heart of democracy, but this Chamber is not the heart, but the appendix, an organ that exists but is actually completely useless.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, I would like to point out that my question was initially addressed to the Prime Minister. Indeed, we had a discussion last week about Proximus' impressive announcement. Yesterday and today, it is not only about the company NLMK in Clabecq, where 50% of jobs are threatened; it is also about job loss at IKEA and the new bankruptcy announcement at New Look. In the space of about ten days, 2,500 jobs are directly at risk. The social impact is potentially enormous: they are as many workers, as many families whose lives are likely to be deeply upset. Mr. Minister of Employment, can you give us an account of the situation at NLKM, IKEA, New Look? Does the Renault law apply in these different cases? With regard to Clabecq, this noon, I intended the CSC to call for an independent financial agency to be at their side to consider alternatives. Your role today as a public authority as Minister of Employment is also to help trade union organisations. In this context, is it not important to send a social conciliator? Finally, it is a new haemorrhage of jobs. I'm not saying it's the result of your policy. It is the product of a transformation of our economy under the pressure of digitalization, but also of globalization. If you have devoted energy to considering the future for companies to move increasingly to digitalisation, if you have often announced "jobs, jobs, jobs", no cross-cutting policy has been put in place by this government to manage the social aspect of this transition. It's not too late! I can therefore only call on you, in collaboration with the social partners, but also on all the levels of power, not to project yourself in thinking about future generations, but to accompany and much better anticipate this transformation of our economy for the workers concerned today and who will be concerned tomorrow and the day after.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fonck, unfortunately, this morning during an extraordinary works council, it was announced that 290 jobs were threatened at NLMK in Clabecq. This is a tragedy for the workers, the families and for all of us. My administration has not yet received a file. We have not yet, in any way, been informed of the situation. However, Mrs Fonck, I can tell you that the procedure is always the same. Management is invited to provide explanations. Unions are invited to listen to workers' concerns and efforts are being made to stimulate consultation within the company. This procedure is being implemented in order to avoid redundancies and to encourage management and trade unions to dialogue and find a solution within the company. Unfortunately, there is the NLMK file, but there are also others. We are doing everything we can to avoid redundancies in all the files you mentioned. Through the "jobs deal", we have also proposed measures to stimulate companies to finance training, to stimulate transformation within the company. In this sense, we discussed with trade unions and employers the possibility of considering additional measures. Personally, I hope that the negotiations within the Group of Ten, which is planning meetings today and in the coming days, will lead to a solution, an interprofessional agreement for the years 2019 and 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u47	Minister, thank you. NLMK, Ikea, New Look, that's a lot! My fear is that it's just the tip of the iceberg. This transition of the economy is affecting us very much. But what will happen to us tomorrow and the day after tomorrow may have an impact on us. It is necessary to have the clarity to make this observation. What is at the heart of this transition in the economy is the way in which we ensure a permanent transition between the jobs that disappear and the jobs that are being created. I do not mean that we must act only for our young people who are going out of school, not only when the restructuring announcements are made, that it is too late and that we must only try to put a plaster on a wooden leg. On the contrary, it is a matter of anticipating more upstream, before redundancies and before waves of job reduction. I propose that you work beyond the interprofessional agreement, with the social partners. It seems to me that this work can be done sector by sector, to identify trends in certain sectors, to predict changes and needs in human resources, and to organise the various appropriate trainings, in conjunction with the Regions. If we do otherwise, we'll always be late. Today, the urgent need is to avoid the damage to these companies and workers, but also to do everything possible to ensure that early vocational retraining takes place before restructuring. It is known that these take place overnight; in this case, workers would have a job mobility and a better chance of finding a job much faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u48	Madam Minister, it was fantastic this afternoon in the streets of Brussels, where 15 000 students argued for a different climate policy. It was fantastic! 15 000 schoolchildren were present in the streets of Brussels to ask for another climate policy. They came from everywhere, from Ghent, from Antwerp, from Sint-Truiden. From almost everywhere, students were present. And also from Wallonia: Liège, Charleroi. Madam Minister, they were there to make it clear that they want a different climate policy. Minister, I don't understand when you say on Twitter that you feel encouraged. Do you do it on purpose? You're making fun of school children! They protest at 15,000 against your policy and you say you feel encouraged! You shouldn't react that way. (Conversation on the banks) Can we speak here in Parliament? Can things be said here? I had addressed my question to the Prime Minister. He won't even answer. There were 15,000 students. What do all the students in question ask? They are asking for a clear climate plan. They're asking that before 2050... Madam Secretary, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u49	Mr Hedebouw, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u50	Mr President, I will, of course, do so. Do you think it's normal that the climate minister doesn't listen to what's being said?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u51	She'll listen. Go on now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u52	Mr President, 15 000 students are asking for a climate plan by 2050. There were 15,000 students. They had sticky cats with them. They brought thousands of plaques. Members of the N-VA, one of the cubes mentioned four ministers responsible for climate and zero policy. All the schoolchildren who have spoken are asking us to return to one minister and not to keep four ministers who are not doing anything about climate change. They're asking for one minister. This whole confederalism affair is no longer a matter for young people today. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, that the climate problem in Flanders or Wallonia will stop? It's time for one more minister to come. That is what all the arguing students have indicated. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Roover, we must stop pointing the finger at the children to point out that it is not right to skip school and not to skip school. Mr De Roover, I myself have started politically, not by skipping school but by quitting. They stop in schools because they want to make it clear that there must be a clear climate policy. They wonder why they would go to school if there are no solutions for their future. That is what the youth wants to make clear to you all. However, you react by pointing out with the lifted index finger that skipping class is not allowed. Mr President, that is not possible, and that can be said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u53	Mr Hedebouw, ask your question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u54	Minister, 15,000 schoolchildren are asking you to change your policy. Will you change your policy to have a binding plan for these 300 multinationals that pollute much more than all the workers combined?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u55	Mr President, honourable Member, first of all, I have, as you raised and noted, a great deal of understanding for the demonstration that these young people are doing today on the streets of Brussels, as they did last week. But at the same time, I agree with my colleague Mrs Joke Schauvliege, who says: "My children decided not to protest and preferred to take their courses, and maybe at another time." I quote my colleague, whom I join. These young people are passing a message, and they have a better interest in passing this message and using the strength of their numbers to do so. But they should be made aware of what we are doing. Contrary to what you say, and you should know, we have a national energy-climate plan that we handed over to Europe at the end of December. We decided, in Katowice, with the climate ministers, to meet according to a work agenda, which is already planned from January, in order to further increase the ambitions contained in this national energy-climate plan, so that Belgium is among the ambitious countries in relation to the Paris Agreement. And so, my colleague Joke Schauvliege says, it would be much more interesting to educate young people at school and tell them exactly what is being done at the level of public institutions. As Minister of Climate, Environment and Sustainable Development, I have for several years taken an initiative to designate climate coaches, who have gone to schools, and to provide students with a website, www.my2050.be, which allows each individual to see what efforts each can make to reduce their consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Such initiatives are important. They should be developed and encouraged because we are all on the same boat. As my colleague has pointed out very well, from the moment we are supported in the measures we are taking... You can see that sometimes you are also critical of purchasing power, of fuels that are increasing. We are not going to debate this today, but it may have an interest in encouraging the use of other sources of energy or other forms of displacement. So there is information to be done and action to be taken, as much as we are, adults, students, citizens, businesses and public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u56	Madam Minister, imagine, 15,000 young people on the streets to say that your policy is wrong! And what are you proposing today as a solution? Climate coaches in schools. You imply that they are the ones who do not understand well, that they need to be educated and provided with information. You say they need to be made aware of what we're doing. So the problem is with young people who don't know what Mrs Marghem does beautiful. Do you realize your contempt? There are 15,000 of them who tell you that your policy is bad. Mrs. Marghem, you must be questioned. Look at that arrogance! What do you think? Do you think climate coaches will solve things?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u57	Shut up! We're not listening to you anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u58	The worst thing is that you advise young people not to strike in schools but to stay there and become aware. You do not understand the ongoing struggle in Belgium as well as in all European countries. There's a movement going up. The latter refuses you to oppose the workers, especially when you increase fuel taxes. That's not what these kids want. They want you to attack the biggest who are responsible, the 300 multinationals who are responsible for 40% of CO2 production. They must be attacked! Minister, I can tell you that the movement is not ready to stop. It's going to expand and you're going to see all the colors again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u59	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u60	The PS Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Michel Corthouts to replace Mr Stéphane Crusnière, an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The PS Group has sent me the candidature of Mr Michel Corthouts to replace Mr Stéphane Crusnière as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. As there are no other applications, in accordance with Article 157 No. 6, of the Rules of Procedure, do not vote and I declare Mr Michel Corthouts elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote in accordance with Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure and I declare Mr Michel Corthouts elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u61	By e-mail dated 7 January 2019, Mr Johan Van Caeckenberghe, director of the Notarial Appointment Committees, announced the resignation of Mr Philippe Gysbergs as working member of the Appointment Committees, in the capacity of Magistrate. By e-mail of 7 January 2019, Johan Van Caeckenberghe, Director of the Appointment Boards for the Notariat, communicates that Mr. Philippe Gysbergs resigns as an effective member (magistrate) of the Appointment Boards. In accordance with Article 38 (7) of the Law of 25 Ventôse year XI at the notarial office, a member shall be automatically succeeded by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. In accordance with Article 38, § 7 of the Law of the 25th Ventôse an XI containing organization of the notariat, a member shall be automatically replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. At the plenary session of 2 February 2017, Ms Ria Mortier was appointed as alternate member of Mr Philippe Gysbergs. It will therefore complete the mandate of Mr Philippe Gysbergs and end its mandate on 1 July 2019. During the plenary session on 2 February 2017, Ms. Ria Mortier was appointed alternate to Mr. Philippe Gysbergs. It will therefore complete the term of office of Mr Philippe Gysbergs, which will end on 1 July 2019. In accordance with Article 38 (7) of the same law, the Chamber must appoint a new alternate to serve the mandate of the Deputy Member, namely the mandate of Ms Ria Mortier. In accordance with Article 38, § 7, of the same Law, the Chamber will have to appoint a new alternate who will complete the term of office of the alternate member, in this case that of Mrs. Ria Mortier. As Ms Ria Mortier was appointed for a four-year term of office, an alternate should be appointed for the remainder of her term of office, ending on 1 July 2021. Since Ms. Ria Mortier was appointed for a four-year term, an alternate member must be appointed for the remainder of her term, which ends on 1 July 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that you publish a call to candidates for the mandate of Deputy Member of the Court of Justice as magistrate of the Notarial Committees in the Belgian Official Journal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for a term of office as an alternate member – as a magistrate – of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u62	By letter dated 21 December 2018, Ms Ellen Van Stichel presented her resignation as an alternate member of the National Evaluation Committee for the category "Pregnancy Break-up'Krings in charge of the reception and supervision of women in an emergency situation. By letter of 21 December 2018, Ms Ellen Van Stichel presented her resignation as an alternate member of the National Commission to assess the voluntary termination of pregnancy for the category "Milieux in charge of the reception and guidance of women in distress". In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the National Evaluation Committee for the category "Pregnancy Abruption' for the category "Corruptions in charge of the reception and supervision of women in an emergency situation'. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for candidates for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member for the category "Military in charge of the reception and guidance of women in distress". Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u63	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mrs Meryame Kitrir cs) amending the Law of 23 December 2005 on the Generation Pact to ensure the granting of welfare adjustments provided for in the Generation Pact Act for the years 2019 and 2020, No. 3462/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Meryame Kitrir cs) amending various provisions aimed at restoring the possibility of interprofessional wage negotiations between the social partners and facilitating an increase in the guaranteed minimum monthly income, No. 3463/1; - the bill (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne cs) on the social provisions of the job deal, No. 3464/1; - the draft law (Mr Jan Spooren and Mr Peter De Roover) implementing the employment deal with regard to social provisions, No. 3465/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u64	- the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mr Kristof Calvo) abolishing the period of care for the selfemployed, No. 3466/1; - the bill (Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois cs) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance in order to amend the rules relating to the cancellation of insurance contracts in order to better protect consumers, No. 3468/1; - the bill (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mr Isabelle Galant and Mr Benoît Friart) introducing a birth grant for selfemployed persons, No. 3469/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u65	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 January 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms Meryame Kitir et al.) amending the Act of 23 December 2005 on the Intergenerational Solidarity Pact with a view to ensuring the granting of the adjustments to the welfare provided for in the said Act for the years 2019 and 2020, No. 3462/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Meryame Kitir et al.) amending various provisions with a view to restoring the possibility of inter-professional wage negotiations between the social partners and facilitating the increase of the guaranteed minimum monthly income, No. 3463/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne et al.) on the social provisions of the Employment Agreement, No 3464/1; - the bill (MM. Jan Spooren and Peter De Roover) implementing the Employment Agreement as regards social provisions, No 3465/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u66	- the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre and Kristof Calvo) to eliminate the waiting period for self-employed persons, No 3466/1; - the bill (Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois et al.) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to adapt the rules on the termination of insurance contracts in order to better protect the consumer, No. 3468/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Isabelle Galant and Mr Benoît Friart) introducing a birth allowance for self-employed workers, No. 3469/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u67	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3462 and for the Bill No. 3463. Colleagues, on legislative proposal No. 3462 is clear that, when the economy is going well and there is scope to increase wages for managers and dividends for shareholders, the wages of ordinary workers also increase. We have all heard that the Central Council for Business has calculated that, on the basis of the legislation, there can only be a wage margin of 0.8%. Colleagues, that is far too little in times of economic growth. It's the government's fault. Despite the fact that the pay handicap was completely eliminated, it nevertheless introduced thresholds which prevent normal wage increases and make negotiations between the social partners very difficult. Our proposal is aimed at continuing free negotiations with the social partners so that economic growth can be fairly distributed. In this context, I would remind you that the Prime Minister recently confirmed that there is a purchasing power problem in some families. Now that purchasing power problem can be solved with our proposal. Why is the issue urgent? That is because the social partners are now starting negotiations. Mr President, that is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, as usual, we are expressing our opinion on the urgent requests to sit down and stand up. I would ask you first to give your opinion on the urgent motion for a resolution. 3462.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to assume that you are also aware of the urgency of the proposal. 3463 accepted by Mrs Temmerman?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-17-54-plenair-ip266x.u71	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 24 January 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 24, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 January 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, January 24, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
