ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u1	I propose that the Minister give his answers to all the questions raised in the previous sitting. Two questions from Mr Thiébaut and Mr Senesael have been added to the evaluation today. The Minister will reply to that too. Then Professor Bruggeman will have the opportunity to explain and a final reply from the committee can be made. Is everyone okay with this? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for attending the second hearing on the evaluation of the optimisation of the federal police. Optimisation was introduced by law in 2014. It provided for an evaluation after four years, in the second semester of 2018. The period evaluated in the proposed report is, in other words, the period in which the government still had full power. At the first hearing on 2 October, I introduced Mr Willy Bruggeman, President of the Federal Police Council. I warmly welcome him to our meeting. He in turn proposed the evaluation report. After that, the possibility of asking questions was offered. A number of these questions were answered immediately. Before I leave Mr Bruggeman to speak, I will answer the remaining questions and share my views with you. Mr Vandenput, Mr Kitir and Mr Chanson had questions about the position of the Commissioner-General. In the police model at two levels, there has never been any mention of the Commissioner-General directing the local level. Nor has there ever been any demand for that. However, several times the question has been asked to strengthen the position of the Commissioner-General as head of federal police. Both in the report we are discussing today and in the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks, this option is put forward. The short history of the integrated police tells us that the legal strengthening of the position of the Commissioner-General has already taken place twice, in particular in 2016 and 2014. Since I was Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I have never established that his position would not be strong enough. So much also has to do with the fulfillment of the function. I would also like to point out to colleagues that in current cases it is not possible to make any legislative changes on the basis of a government bill, if we wish to do so. There were then questions from colleagues Demon, Vandenput, Thiébaut and Matz about the funding, the donations, the police budget and the KUL standard. It is up to the next government to review or reorient the financing of the integrated police. The revision of the KUL standard should be part of this. In any case, the federal police must have sufficient staff and resources to carry out its specialized tasks. We must also dare to look at the total cost of police work for our society, calculated at every level. Everyone, including myself, wants to invest more money in security. The question is, however, whether this money will actually be available in the short term. In addition to the ongoing efforts to increase resources for both local and federal police, I therefore call for as much security as possible within existing budgets to be provided to the population in the most efficient and effective way possible. A more flexible use of the budgets, for example through permanent budget riders such as defence, can be a step in the right direction. I also mentioned this in committee last week when discussing the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks. With regard to the questions raised by Mr Demon and Mr Kitir on the flexibility of the statute and the mandate functions, there is a need for a full concept of career planning and management, both for staff with a mandate and for all other staff. A more flexible police status worthy of a name can also contribute to greater operationality. After all, it is well known in political circles that the number of hours available to a staff member on an annual basis has been decreasing ever since the police reform, and that is a serious finding. An important reason for this is the lack of flexibility of the police status. That absolutely must be reversed. However, this change calls for legislative changes and consultation with the trade unions. An HR aspect that we can already work on, is the relatively large absenteeism and motivational problems that emerged from the psychosocial survey of 2018. More motivated and available staff can, in my view, already help a great deal to cope with the staff deficit. I have therefore asked the Management Committee to give absolute priority to its approach. As regards the mandates, in the 1998 police reform, the intention was to limit the number of successive mandates in the same position and in the local police force to two. The aim was to encourage the exchange between federal and local police forces and to create sufficient flow-through opportunities for young executives. Unfortunately, the principle of two mandates and of the assessment test was quickly abolished by the legislator. That's unfortunate. In addition, the police chiefs of category 1 and 2 police zones were promoted by the legislator from the Commissioner to the Commissioner. All this has strongly hypothesized the intended mobility with the local police, and between the local and federal police, although it was envisaged at that time. As a result, mandate holders were less encouraged to move to a larger zone or a federal service and that lack of flow explains, in my view, to a large extent also why there have been strong cultural differences between the two levels, as indicated in the report. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to Mr Senesael's and Mr Kitir's questions on recruitment, I refer to KPMG's audit of the Recruitment and Selection Service. The audit revealed several areas for improvement. A new selection concept has therefore been developed, which must meet four objectives: to improve the quality of the applications submitted, to shorten recruitment and selection times, to increase the percentage of success and to promote greater diversity. There is currently an agreement with three of the four trade union organisations to adopt intermediate solutions that do not require any statutory changes – such as fast track – in order to significantly reduce the length of the selection process. I hope I can also convince the fourth trade union organisation in the coming days. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the KPMG study and the reform of the recruitment concept are discussed at another hearing. I propose that the report be explained in detail at that time and made available to all the members of this committee if necessary. Mr Ingels and Mr Demon have asked questions about capacity and measures to be taken to promote additional influx and local initiatives. The successful campaign in Bruges to which my colleague Demon referred is part of the concept of fast track, where policemen are indeed linked from the start of a service to such a service or unit, in this case the police zone Bruges. It is a preview of the recently cited renewed recruitment concept and consists of an accelerated selection. It is intended to integrate this into the new recruitment concept and adapt all processes accordingly. This should lead to much shorter recruitment periods and a better link between candidates and their destination service. With regard to Ms Matz's questions on the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Crime (OECDFO), the Act of 26 March 2014 on optimisation measures strengthened the Federal Judicial Directorates (PJF) in the districts in the context of the fight against economic and financial crime. In addition, multidisciplinary survey teams have been planned in the districts of Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi/Mons, East Flanders and Liège. They are responsible for carrying out specialized investigations into organized economic and financial crime, tax and social fraud, and computer crime, including the international ramifications of the investigation. This deconcentration led to a major restructuring of OECDFO. During the period 2014-2018, the number of persons employed in this service was reduced from 55 to 22. At the central level, however, OECDFO still has an important mission to fulfil. I have already made clarifications in this regard through the Royal Decree of 23 June 2019 implementing article 102, paragraph 2, 4°, of the law organizing an integrated police service. As a result, OECDFO also continues to play an important role in some areas. Complex international cases, which rarely occur and require specific expertise, are treated a priori by OECDFO. The role of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office in such investigations is not negligible either. It may also request the Office to provide coordination or specific support. I will shortly be meeting with the Acting Director General of the Federal Judicial Police to discuss in detail the operation of OECDFO and the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption (CRO). I would like to stress once again that this point has never been called into question in the process of optimisation. With regard to Mr Matz and Mr Thiébaut's questions on the implementation of the ATM and its evaluation, I have already answered on several occasions on this subject. I also provided further explanations last week at the hearing on the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the attacks. To sum up, implementation is in full swing, but the number of Dutch-speaking candidates is insufficient to meet the timetable. Mr Thiébaut, I have also, after these explanations, another answer to a parliamentary question which you have asked and which has been added to the agenda. With regard to Mr Matz's questions about the current state of the Federal Reserve, there is currently a centralized reserve in the Federal Police, the Directorate of Public Security (DAS), and a decentralized reserve in the form of the Intervention Corps (ICK), which are responsible for the negotiated management of the public space. DAS also conducts specialized missions using special means. 180 FTEs have actually joined this Directorate with interdepartmental appropriations (IDPs). The organizational framework of the ICKs amounts to a total of 588 FTEs and that of the DAS to 545 FTEs, following the reinforcements granted through the PID credits. The actual framework in January 2019 was around 933 FTEs. A large part of the operational capacity of the federal police is therefore used to provide support to the local police. The engagement of the ICK and the DAS helps to limit the activation of the HyCap mechanism between police areas. This support, provided by the Federal Reserve, is not always specialized. This is often purely quantitative support. As far as the questions of colleague Senesael on HyCap are concerned, as already communicated in 2018, 38,208 local police officers took 480,356 hours as part of the HyCap solidarity mechanism for a multitude of different events. However, the provision of order services during football matches and the engagement of spotters accounted for a quarter of the total commitment in 2018. The major festivals (Tomorrowland, Werchter, Pukkelpop, Graspop, Francofolies, Dour and others), the actions of the yellow vests, the NATO summits and the prison guards' strikes represent the rest of the commitment at national level. The circular concerned, MFO-2, which entered into force on 1 January 2018, increases the number of training courses and increases their quality. These new standards apply to both HyCap and CIK and DAS personnel. Mr Senesael, after these explanations, I have another answer to a parliamentary question which you have asked and which has been added to the agenda. But first of all, I come to the questions of Mr Thiébaut, who, like you, presides over a police zone. His questions dealt with the Council of Mayors and the lack of resources. The functioning of the Council of Mayors is particularly affected by a low participation rate of the mayors concerned. It is often not possible to issue a notice that the required quorum is not reached. I am not aware of a malfunction due to a lack of resources allocated. I can answer Mr Colebunders' questions about the reforms of my predecessor Minister Jambon, the optimisation law and the role of the district agent as follows. The evaluation is just about the optimisation provided for in the 2014 law. As Willy Bruggeman explained in detail, the terror attacks crossed the way and the government took various measures to strengthen the security device. These measures are complementary to optimization and do not conflict with them, as the questioner claimed. The impact of federal police on the functioning of local police must not be overlooked. I made that very clear in my introduction last time. However, the correct impact is not the subject of the evaluation. The response to the changing offer of federal police and security phenomena, such as transmigration and the continuing threat of terrorism, is also very different from police zone to police zone. The impact on the role of the district agent and the district police is therefore best viewed at local level. Mr Briers and Mrs Kitir asked questions about the position of the DirCo and the DirJud and the intermediary role of the governors. The organisation of the federal police gives a leading role to the Director-General of the judicial police with regard to the judicial director, the DirJud, and to the Commissioner-General with regard to the director-coordinator, the DirCo. The Commissioner-General has several instruments for mediation and corrective action, which is sufficiently evident from the day-to-day operation. It goes without saying, of course, that both the King's Attorney and the Governor may have a signal function and, if necessary, can and must play an intermediary role, but since my arrival there has been no need to do so. With regard to Ms. Song's questions on the long-term vision and the particular question: "What police for tomorrow?" – I suppose the day after tomorrow – it is primarily up to the next government to define a long-term vision. As a minister in day-to-day affairs, I have a rather modest and limited role to play in this matter. However, I agree with you that the principles underlying police reform have been put under pressure in recent years. The specialized police function provided by the Federal Police, the so-called police-specific missions and the subsidiary support provided to the local police are not provided optimally. The exchange of information that was the basis of the 1998 reform must be optimised on a number of points. We will return to this in the joint committee on the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks. The federal police are barely able to keep up with the pace of digitalization and the technologicalisation of society, and I am deeply concerned about this. Either we re-establish the balance by redesigning the funding system, or we re-examine in depth the current police model, including the mandatory merger of police areas. I leave it to the specialists to determine whether these areas should have a population of 150 or 500 or even a higher or intermediate number. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come to my conclusions. I come to my conclusions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask the Federal Police Council, which has the legal task of evaluating the police, to develop unambiguous methodological means for future evaluations and to contribute to a culture of evaluation. I would also like to call on all those who are in favour of the police and the security of our country to move away from what I call the deficit culture. Too often the debate is reduced to a lack of resources and staff. In doing so, we forget what we as a society invest in our police and security. The federal government alone invests two billion euros on an annual basis in the police. I am not talking about the city and local authorities' own share of funding for their police areas. Let us get to work in this way and work on a positive and new business culture that must allow us to attract the right people quickly and to deploy them operationally. During the period of almost one year I have the responsibility of the department, I have already taken many steps in this direction with the limited political range, especially with regard to recruitment of staff. Before I give the floor to Mr Bruggeman, I shall first give an answer to the questions put by Mr Thiébaut and Mr Senesael. Dear colleague Thiébaut, since 1 March 2018, 628 BAGP security officers have started their training at the National Police Academy. Of these, 478 graduated and were integrated into the Directorate of DAB Security. Of these 478, 21 BAGP have left the DAB for various reasons, and 101 BAGP aspiring candidates are still in training. In addition to these recruitments, 391 members of the former FPS Justice Security Corps were integrated as of January 1, 2019. Of these, ten left the DAB for various reasons. At the police and administrative level, the DAB has 2 divisional commissioners, 20 commissioners, 72 chief inspectors and 39 members of the administrative and logistical framework. On 22 October 2019, the DAB therefore has a staff of 971, a number already mentioned, all managers and distributed as follows: 19 staff members work in the central management of the DAB, 10 members work in the development of operational reserve missions, nuclear reserves, training and critical infrastructure, 133 staff members work in nuclear sites, 63 staff members work in the security of the Brussels-National airport and 746 staff members work for the police of courts and tribunals and transfer detainees. The DAB is already in charge of securing the Brussels-National airport and securing the Tihange and Fleurus nuclear sites. The gradual resumption of police missions, courts and the transfer of detainees is under way. The entire territory is expected to be covered on 1 March 2020. The tasks carried out by local police under the mandatory circular MFO-1 are therefore gradually being taken over by the security management. Based on projections, and always taking into account recruitment and training successes, operational reserves are expected to include a comprehensive framework in 2020 and, for critical infrastructure security missions, the framework is expected to be comprehensive by September 2020. Mr Senesael's question is added. It covers the HyCap mechanism and the recruitment of police personnel. In 2018, 38,208 local police officers, as I have just mentioned, performed 480,356 hours as part of the HyCap solidarity mechanism for a multitude of events. I had already mentioned major festivals and special commitments with regard to football matches and spotters. For your second question, I would like to inform you that a new selection concept has been developed. Pending the adaptation of the statutory texts, an agreement exists with the trade unions to adopt intermediate solutions with annotations that do not require statutory change. I am thinking, for example, of fast track procedures, in order to drastically reduce the length of the selection procedure. With regard to the federal police, there is a centralized reserve - the Directorate of Public Security (DAS) - and a decentralized reserve in the form of the Intervention Corps (ICK). They are responsible for the negotiated management of public space. DAS also conducts specialized missions using special means that have been strengthened by the recruitment of 180 full-time equivalents (FTE-FTEs). The commitment of the CIK and the DAS help to limit the activation of the HyCap. The organic framework of the ICKs is 588 FTEs and that of the DAS is 545 FTEs. The total theoretical capacity of the federal reserve thus reaches 1,133 FTEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u3	Mr President, I should first like to apologize for my weak voice, because I have a severe cold. I believe, however, that it will succeed. I have also been asked a number of questions. There were three questions from Mrs Ingels. Firstly, she wanted to know how to make the functions of the federal police more attractive. Secondly, she wanted to know if there could be no more citizens for certain functions, i.e. no members of CaLog or operational staff. As far as the latter is concerned, I am rather hesitant about that. Most functions are linked to the mandate of the police, the exercise of the police function. Even in connection with citizens in the CIC, we must use this police function. This does not prevent the CaLog staff from being expanded. They can, of course, fill in a number of functions. To what extent experts can be deployed is a question for a broader debate than what I have been asked to do here. We have already had discussions with the Justice Department about the need to further professionalise the expert base. I believe that greater use can be made of experts appointed, for example, by the public prosecutors. However, there is a certain amount of professionalism involved. As far as the attractiveness of the function is concerned, I can only agree that all efforts to promote it are welcome and necessary. I would like to mention a detail that we have already mentioned in connection with the review after 10 years of police reform, namely that a job reward could help. Everyone in the police has the same bet, but they can claim a number of fees. Now, many people give up important functions because they cannot make use of the special allowances. A job reward within the same budget, so without an increase, could help to balance better and contribute to the attractiveness of the functions. Mind you, the financial aspect is only one of them. Another question from Mrs Ingels was about the accountability of the Commissioner-General and the fact that it should be accompanied by a certain degree of freedom. I can only confirm that. Accountability, accountable from the point of view of Commissioner General, naturally requires a certain freedom in spending and managing resources. That must be made possible under his authority. The questioner refers to the efforts made in the budget with provisional appropriations. I believe that is a good example. I believe that the Commissioner-General should be given a little more freedom of action. In fact, he is very much bound by all kinds of rules, regulations and so on. I come to the point where, halfway through the year, the Commissioner-General, as a good housekeeper, finds in his accounts that the staff appropriations have been used up and that it should be possible to intervene more flexibly in priority matters. I can only agree with the statement made by the questioner himself. That's a good proposal. Then I come to Mr Thiébaut's question. Mr. Thiébaut asked the simple question whether, ten years after the evaluation of police reform, the recommendations made by that commission had been heard. My answer is yes and no. Some recommendations have been implemented, but many remain unfollowed. I can only confirm what the minister said, that at the police, there is no culture of evaluation. Every time I speak as President of the Federal Police Council, for example, the national security plan, the state of the federal police or the police as a whole, is evaluated; a new methodology is used. There is no planned schedule. We always go back to ad hoc assessments. What I also regret is that there is no structured and organized monitoring system for these recommendations. I see a lot of recommendations from Committee P and the Inspectorate General go through. In the Federal Police Council, we also make many recommendations, but there is no integrated monitoring system either for inventorying them or for monitoring them. I can only plead for a new culture and a new system in this area. I am now learning that the minister is going to ask me to establish a methodology for future evaluations. I can only stress the need for this. Another question raised by Mr. Thiébaut relates to his feeling that the connection between federal and zonal levels is less or more good. It refers to zonal security plans. Now I can also confirm his concern. I think there is a need for a closer and more functional link between the national security plan and the zonal security plans. Actually, there's no bottom-up approach. When we prepared the national security plan, we did so at our federal level, but there is not really a bottom-up system to better understand the needs of the areas, for example, and to take them into account in the national security plan. The opposite is equally true. The national security plan does not always find its follow-up in the zonal security plans. Integration or interconnection between federal and zonal levels is necessary. In this regard, the level of federal police boroughs could play an important role, particularly in the head of the DirCo and the DirJud, which are the link between the zonal and the federal. In my view, this function should be further strengthened. The zonal police council is of great importance in this regard. I note that some meetings take place in a rather bureaucratic way, but other areas invest much more in the proper functioning of the area and maintain the link between the zonal and the federal. I can only encourage the mayors who set the right example. With regard to the famous KUL standard, I repeat for the umpteenth time that this standard should be reviewed. Studies have been carried out, notably by the University of Ghent, but this has not resulted in a firm or new decision for an updated distribution or redistribution of the so-called "KUL" funds. Personally, I plead for an ad hoc committee to propose to the future government a new form of allocation of these funds, but gradually, because a revolution is not possible. In fact, determining which areas will have less budget for other areas and announcing it to them is complicated for the mayors and local authorities. An ideal distribution standard for the future must be established, which is not directly but gradually applicable. And when the government allocates new funds, for example, this new standard could be taken into account in distribution. Thus the standards would be updated, not in a revolutionary but in a progressive way, so that we slowly move towards the new form of distribution. I plead for a firm and accepted calculation by the new government, so that we know the rules of the game but that the realization takes place gradually. I think that is quite possible and that would invite the authorities to join this new distribution slowly. Doing nothing is not a solution, in my opinion. Mrs Kitir has questions about the passage in the report on page 29 on the DirCo and the DirJud. I still find it a little strange that at the level of the arrondissements there are actually two bosses, a DirCo and a DirJud. That was the legislator's wish, particularly to find a solution after the Dutroux case to the question of the impact of the judicial authorities on the legal pillar. I believe that this system works well on many fronts, but it can not only depend on personal relationships if something goes well. The functions are divided: the DirCo knows what to do, the DirJud also knows what to do. Ideally, however, one should advocate unity of territory and unity of command. We know that old principle from the past. In this way, there would be only one chief, who manages both domains and has someone in charge of the judicial police, and someone else who runs the administrative components. In the research we have written under the title Optimization that the time is not right. There's no basis to change the organization. Like the Federal Police Council, we are de facto in favour of maintaining the present situation. That has its pros and cons, but I do not think there is a need at the moment. I would like to express the advice of the Federal Police Council to bring about a revolution and immediately strive for a single authority at the arrondissement level. What was proposed by the Commissioner-General is to better identify the dependencies of the DirCo and the DirJud. The DirJud depends on the general judicial director, while the DirCo depends on the CG. That has a certain necessity. There are, after all, functionalities that are observed by the Commissioner-General. I believe that this is a proposal from the Commissioner-General for the right balance. Maybe we should evaluate that. We haven't really done that thoroughly during the optimization study. Rather than seeking unity between the two authorities, I believe that there is some possibility of achieving a certain improvement in this area. I had another question from Mrs. Matz. Reference is made to Antwerp. Finally, reference was made to the focus groups and initiatives taken in Antwerp on ongoing projects, in particular to improve the implementation of digital minutes. I know three initiatives in Antwerp. There is first Focus, which is a system developed by the Antwerp police in order to facilitate the access of police officers on the ground to the files to which they must have access. This is an automatic way to access files more easily. This system has been slowly generalized within the police. In Antwerp, there is also a social media analysis. On a daily basis, a team evaluates all the information available via social media. These applications are useful for the rest of the police, knowing that other jurisdictions do the same. The federal police have their own means to analyze the information available on social media. The same is true for the OCAM and the Sûreté de l'Etat. This, in my view, is no problem and coordination – necessary – will naturally emerge. As far as digital minutes are concerned, there is always a problem with electronic signature – which always hinders the automatic transmission of minutes to the public prosecutor's offices – as well as some technical problems. The IT technique used by public prosecutors is not always compatible with that used by the police. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions put to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u4	Thank you, Professor Bruggeman. Mr. Secretary, do you have any additions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u5	Not at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic051x.u6	Nobody's asking for the floor anymore. If there are any further questions about police optimization, they can still be asked in the context of oral questions. I should like to thank Professor Bruggeman and the Minister for their presence and for the answers they have given.
