ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we have invited three speakers to give us a great deal of information. I am happy to give them the floor. Each of them will be able to speak for 15 minutes to 20 minutes. Some speakers must leave us at 5 p.m. because they are still leaving on a foreign mission. That is why I would ask Members not to speak too long in the speeches, not more than two to three minutes, so that everyone can have the opportunity to speak. If someone speaks for ten minutes, it will be at the expense of the others' speaking time. I ask for some collegiality and solidarity. Make your point as well as possible in a concise manner. I would like to give the floor to Lieutenant General Claude Van de Voorde.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u2	Madam President, mesdames et messieurs, bonjour, good afternoon. I am Claude Van de Voorde, boss of the SGRS (General Intelligence and Security Service), ADIV in Dutch (from Algemene Dienst Inlichting in Veiligheid). I will try to take stock of the situation in Iraq, and like every soldier, I like to do it with a map. I like doing this with a map. That's easier for my situation awareness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u3	I'm going to give you information based on the situation we finalized this morning around 8:00 a.m. First of all, a few preliminary remarks: as you know, the SGRS has not deployed personnel to Syria. This makes our information position more difficult of course. That is why we have intensive meetings with our partners. These are mainly the United Kingdom, France and America. We have also mobilized our "defence" attachés in the region, in order to complete our information as much as possible. We have also reoriented our research resources: electromagnetic means (SIGINT, intelligence signal) but also geospatial (IMINT, imaging intelligence) and open sources (which have accentuated their focus on the area). As far as the military operation is concerned, that is actually our area of competence. I should be able to give you an update on that. First of all, what was Turkey's intention? Militaryly, to achieve its objectives, Turkey wanted to occupy a zone of about 400 kilometres wide, on the border with Syria, and thirty kilometres deep, parallel to the highway M4. That was their objective. This is to neutralize, on the one hand, the military potential of the YPG, but also to try to repatriate one to three million Syrian refugees to Syria. What did we see? Initially, now a week ago, there was a fairly rapid advance between the cities of Ras al-Ayn and Tal Abyad. They're about in the middle of the map. There they have broken through and have quickly fallen two of the five most important cities they had in mind. The other three that mattered to them were Manbij, Kobani and Qamishli in the east. Those first two cities were quickly conquered and the Kurds fought back less strongly than initially foreseen. Then a game changer came, namely the alliance with the Syrian army. For Assad, the city of Manbij is very important and they have therefore decided to establish an alliance. That alliance, that Syrian-Kurdish army, initially consisted of strengthened elements of Syria. These were not tanks but rather light pick-ups that took up position in certain strategic locations. What happened in the meantime? All the partner countries of the Western powers have withdrawn, a thousand U.S. military are now packing their suitcases. Those most eastly situated in the country leave for the border with Iraq. The assembly for the troops to the west of Syria; they will probably go to Kobane to take an American plane and return home. We all know that the Syrian army is sponsored by Russia and that there are no real actions by the Russians. They are sponsoring, but they are not really actively participating in possible battles at the moment. Meanwhile, there is a bilateral agreement between the Syrians and the Kurds. This agreement is sponsored by the Russians. It is very important to know that the Kurdish militias are now fully part of a division of Syria. In other words, they are integrated into the Syrian army. By the way, all this is happening under the control of the Russians. This seems to me to be an important point. What are the findings of the last 24 hours? The Turkish troops are about 30 kilometres along the M4 motorway of Manbij. The Kurds carried out mortar attacks on the Turkish positions this night. We also know that the Russians are present in Manbij. However, it is not about offensive troops, but rather military police. We note that this is a deterrent for the Turks to act violently and to take full action. Last night an incident took place on a bridge over the Euphrates between Manbij and Ain Issa. Turkish troops bombed the bridge on which American troops were at the time sinking towards Kobani. This night two American F-15s performed a show of force to calm things down. As far as the fights are concerned, there are still a number of hotspots in Tal Abayd and Ras al-Ayn. We have the confirmation that the Kurds have the centre of the city back there and that the Turks maintain themselves in the orange red zone. You should know that this zone is made up of desert. The fights take place there in the corners of that rectangle. So our assessment is that this is the end of it. We see no tendency where the Turks would like to occupy that 400 km long zone, from the border to the M4. More in the east, it's pretty calm right now. The first days of the fighting there was indeed a panic in that area, but in the end everything is stabilised, because there are no fighting activities there. Also in the camp Al-Hol everything is quite stable. To be complete, this night in the empty camp of Ain Issa some tents were set on fire, but there was no one there anymore. As regards the guard at the camps and the prisons in eastern Syria, the Kurds are still there. There are no indications that the Kurdish elements would leave those positions, but know that the Kurdish SDF is now part of the Syrian army and are therefore controlled by Russia. So Russia really is going to be a player in the region, which means that if we ever wanted to ignore it, we might have to talk to Russia. Quite generally, we know that ceasefire initiatives are being developed. Vice President Pence is on his way and there are also initiatives by President Putin. That is the situation at the moment. As I said, the assessment is that the situation in the rectangle that is now orange stabilizes and that there is no extension of Turkish troops to the east or west anymore. They occupy the M4 and therefore have quite some freedom of movement to go west with vehicles from the east. This concludes my preliminary remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u4	Thank you, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. I now give the floor to Mr Van Tigchelt, director of the OCAD.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain the views of the OCAM in your committee. I am the Director of OCAM, the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis. Our first task is the coordination of the "problematic approach to radicalisation" through the structures of Plan R, to be the pivotal element between the judicial, administrative, socio-preventive approach, between the federal, regional and local levels. Our second task is to gather, analyse, evaluate and carry out ad hoc assessments for other authorities that can implement security measures, but also to notify authorities through strategic assessments. That is what we are trying to do in this case. We're doing that shit from the emotional charge of the file. The trauma of 22 March 2016 is just happening and that is, of course, normal. However, we must distance ourselves from that emotion and try to objectify and individualise it. We also do this for the so-called Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTF) and their children, who are present in the conflict zone. The OCAD has its specific responsibility. Those FTFs are succeeded by the various services through the former OCAD list, which has now become the Common Database (GGB), of which the OCAD is the operationally responsible. We have the task of evaluating the threat on a case-by-case basis, FTF'er per FTF'er. I place the emphasis on case by case, ladies and gentlemen. We must objectify and individualize. Objectivating is done on the basis of figures, principles and scenarios. I have brought a table showing the figures which will be communicated to the members of the committee. There is a lot of information in open sources. There are also huge numbers in the national media. I'm able to give you the correct numbers. Let us be clear, these figures are constantly evolving according to our sources of information. For the time being, we are receiving information about 55 FTFs in the conflict zone and we are talking about 69 children. Belgium was faced with 430 travellers-FTFs. 135 of them have already returned. We have built up a certain experience and expertise and the experience with 135 returners in our country can be of use to us. The rest of the FTF's 430-135 is still there, but we have information that at least 150 FTF's died. So we are talking here about more than 55 FTFs and 69 children. The figures, by the way, from various angles, will be made available to you. For example, you will find the nationality of those persons and whether or not they have been convicted in absentia. I must stress that it is the figures of the Belgian FTFs. There's a very important nuance we need to make. In accordance with the OCAD scheme, we consider FTF not only those who have Belgian nationality, but also those who have stayed here and left from here. It could be about people of Tunisian or Chechen origin. Those are people who have stayed here, may still have interests here and may pose another threat to our country. It is laid down in laws and Royal Decrees that they are also included in the figures. There is therefore a difference between the FTFs and those of Belgian nationality. That needs to be clear and clear. You will see in the figures what has changed since Turkey's invasion of Syria. You've been able to track that in the press. Ain Issa's camp no longer exists. It is true that we have information. You will understand that we do not go into individual files here. I'll stick to the general figures. It is true that three ladies with six children had to leave that camp in Ain Issa, whether they wanted to or not. We can't talk about escapes here. They had to leave that camp. Things happened there. That camp doesn't exist anymore. For the rest, the OCAD also has information about two so-called FTF'ers, Foreign Terrorist Fighters. These are male FTFs who somehow managed to escape from a prison in northern Syria. These are five people who were in camps or prisons and are no longer there at the moment. I would like to stress the term 'individualisation', in the sense that we should not put all these people on the same footing, which is also evident from the experience we have built up in the meantime with the 135 returnees, excuse us, but we like to use difficult English words, as you know. We cannot therefore all put these people on the same footing; a number of people have been in camps for almost two years. Without generalizing, I can summarize this in two extreme positions. On the one hand, there are people, including Belgians, from whom we can reasonably assume that they have effectively renounced ideology, which does not mean that they should not be persecuted, but I will come back to that later. There are people who we know have renounced ideology and want to return to our country without any terrorist intentions. On the other hand, we also know, as far as the Belgian situation is concerned, that there are still a number of ideological hardliners or hardcore terrorists who often have serious facts on their hands. These are usually those who were arrested and taken to camps or prisons after the fall of Baghouz in March of this year. So the OCAD doesn't strike everyone on the same page. The result of such an evaluation is that everyone gets a threat level from 1 to 4 according to the threat we see. I'm going quickly to stay within my speaking time. We are trying to objectify by means of figures. We are also trying to objectify on the basis of scenarios and principles. We do so on the basis of our responsibility for the safety of our country. In the principles we make abstraction of emotional, humanitarian, political, geopolitical, legal and international law aspects. Our angle is security. A first element is that, in the case of our FTFs, these are often people of Belgian nationality. This means that there is a certain responsibility for the Belgian authorities. A second element will be addressed by the federal attorney. Belgian policy is based on a criminal justice approach. This means that it is clear in Belgium that every FTF is being prosecuted and tried, including women. This is not the case in all European countries. In all modesty, our country has earned its stripes in that respect. The federal prosecutor's office is responsible for this in cooperation with the police and intelligence services. There are two options for the trial, according to the Latin adadium aut dedere aut judicare. Either they are tried in the country where they committed the crimes, or they are tried in the country of origin. If this happens on the ground, you will know the various options, namely an ad hoc international tribunal or a strengthening of the Iraqi justice system. There are many legal and practical obstacles which have been discussed sufficiently in recent days and which I do not go into further in the context of this introduction. However, it is also important for our security that this trial be conducted in accordance with our principles of a fair trial which respects the reasonable time and human rights. By the way, there is an important question in a possible trial in Iraq, namely what about the children? These are usually very young children born there. By young, I mean the age of one to five years. You will find the age pyramid in the documents that are made available to you. For these children there can be no mention of a security problem, not in the short term, but of a humanitarian problem. I would like to focus on safety in the short and long term. As far as short-term security is concerned, the situation in the camps is important. This certainly applies to the camp in Al-Hol, which is not in buffer zone and where most FTFs, also of Belgian origin, are stuck. The situation was already explosive. Following the fall of Baghouz, the children's overpopulation and malnutrition have been identified on the spot by Belgian missions. The situation is also explosive because ideological hardliners try to re-establish small caliphates there. So that is something that needs to be charged. We also know about five FTFs, three women and two men, who were in camps or prisons, but who are no longer there. It is the job of the OCAD to remain calm and cold-blooded, not to do panic-mongering or scare-mongering. In view of that responsibility, it is important to underline that it is unlikely that in terms of OCAD methodology, FTFs could reach the European mainland unnoticed and uncontrolled. That option is not likely to be much, but, you can hear me well, I am not saying impossible, inter alia, as long as the deal that Turkey concluded with the EU lasts. You also know that the President of Turkey threatened to blow up that deal and send the refugees back to Europe. You also know that the perpetrators of the Bataclan attack, on 22 March, went to the European mainland via the flow of refugees with forged documents. So that opportunity is now unlikely, let alone that the really dangerous elements, the hardliners, the hardcore terrorists, would like to come back. You know that IS changed its strategy in the course of 2016 and focuses its propaganda mainly on the lone actors, while initially sending out the headquarters commandos who had received training in Syria and Iraq to commit attacks here. During 2016 the rifle was changed from shoulder to shoulder and was mainly tried, through propaganda, to encourage people in Belgium to attack. Until further notice, this is also the biggest terrorist threat in this country, the threat of the lone actors either inspired by a jihadic hate ideology or by a right-wing extremist ideology. Unfortunately, in a very recent past, we have had to experience examples of this in the not so far abroad. Again, there is currently no information available to the OCAD that FTFs are on their way from the conflict zones with terrorist plans. If people were on their way to Turkey, it would of course depend on what Turkey is doing to them. Once again, we have seen that the Turkish President has already said that he will send European nationals back to their country of origin. We have some experience in this matter. This has also been discussed in the parliamentary committee of inquiry. I look back to 2015, when five FTFs, four women and one man, returned through Turkey, through what we call the hotspot procedure. In doing so, we asked the Turkish authorities to make a note and to make it known to our country in good time when they wanted to put Belgian FTFs on a plane. Turkey does not respond to requests for extradition, but points them out because of illegal residence on its territory. Having said that, with that important nuance, it is of course true that the more we lose control of the FTFs there, the greater the unknown factor. You know that in our job we do not like working with unknown factors. Long-term security, and that is all I have said, Madam President, is something that needs to be pointed out. Being long present in those camps is an open door kicking in but it must be said that of course it increases the chance to be recruited again by the IS supporters. A long stay in these camps or prisons increases the risk of developing hatred towards the West. There is another long-term effect that has to be taken into account, in particular that even in the case of the trial in Iraq, should it be possible for practical and legal obstacles to be considered further, even in the case of the trial in Iraq according to the principles of fair trial, there is of course a risk that people will be released sooner or later. Then, of course, we can ask ourselves what mindset these people are releasing. In this context, I refer to what has happened in the past in the prisons in Iraq, such as in Abu Ghraib and Camp Bucca. Not to mention the long-term impact of the decisions we make here on families in certain communities here. There could be a perception that one is abandoned by one's own governments. My final point is security here in the context of the Turkish-Kurdish tensions. Services are closely monitoring the situation. We know that Turkish-Kurdish tensions can also be imported here. Lightly flammable. People can be mobilized there. At present, there are many events that are going well. But there, through the Crisis Centre, local actors have been called upon to show some alertness. I am happy to be available for further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Tigchelt. I would now like to give the floor to Federal Attorney Frédéric Van Leeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u7	Madam President, to talk about the timeline, you will have learned that yesterday, we arrested two people suspected of collecting money to release Foreign Terrorism Fighters (FTF) who were in the camps in Iraq. We must not mix the two events. This investigation was prior to the attack by Turkish troops in Syria. It shows that there is still support among a certain population here. These people had indeed managed to raise between eight and nine thousand euros to bribe Kurdish guards and let the FTF go. This investigation was carried out in collaboration with the French police services. Several people were also arrested in France. All this to say that al-Baghdadi's call just a month ago, on 16 September, to release the FTF is heard in our countries. I don't want to make everyone panic; that's not the point. These are a few individuals, but it has an effect on us. The investigation will show whether this money is paid for a humanitarian purpose to support families who desperately want to recover their loved ones or for the purpose of financing terrorist acts. To do this, the investigation must continue. Both assumptions are studied. What is clear is that on the French side, some of the suspects were ready to carry out armed attacks to recover money. I shall now return to what has happened further in the past. You may recall that Mr Ibrahim El Bakraoui has returned to our country uncontrolled. He was deported by Turkey, not Belgium but Amsterdam, so we completely lost control of him. Even further in the past Mehdi Nemmouche had come back uncontrolled through Malaysia. He was also in the country without any of our security services having any information on him. The uncontrolled return of the Foreign Terrorist Fighters is therefore the great nightmare of all our security forces. There was the great crisis that we had, and I would also mention that the majority of the perpetrators of the attacks in Paris came back with the wave of refugees that arose when President Erdogan opened all borders for the first time. Salah Abdeslam and his companions have made several trips to Hungary and Germany and so on to pick up a number of people. An uncontrolled return is our biggest nightmare. Since then, and even before that, all those people who have returned have already been the subject of an international arrest warrant.The practice of the federal prosecutor is that an investigative court is requested to issue an arrest warrant when there are serious indications that a Belgian person or a person who has left Belgium has joined a terrorist group on the Syrian-Iraq battle stage. Moreover, since our criminal policy is aimed at prosecuting the same persons in absentia, several convictions have been issued which have also led to the Federal Prosecutor having the persons concerned notified for extradition. All persons who are among the numbers that Paul Van Tigchelt has just quoted are all subject to an international arrest mandate. All are subject to an international arrest warrant. Twenty-five are subject to an international arrest warrant after a five-year default sentence, in most cases – I will come back – for participation in the activities of a terrorist group; two are beyond five years – a 15-year sentence and a six-year prison sentence – because they have been proven to have a leadership role. Here's for the 25. As for the others, all are the subject of an international arrest warrant issued by an investigating judge and all are therefore the subject of an alert. Of course, there is no international mandate for minors, but they are nevertheless reported. A number of persons against whom those international arrest warrants have been issued may be located. In this context, we are faced with the problem that localization has long and sometimes still been classified. Localisation comes from foreign troops, but these troops do not like the release of information in any way that leads the general public to find out where the people concerned are right. As a result, the findings obtained through ADIV or State Security are classified, which sometimes makes it difficult. We do have lists, I have access to classified information, but we cannot do much for a few people because the information is classified. Nevertheless, we have issued a procedure for Syria and Iraq. Legally, it's not easy. There are no extradition treaties, and I also believe that there is no desire here to negotiate with President Assad on this matter. Negotiation with the Kurds is, perhaps even more so now, also complicated, as their territory is not regarded as a state. On Iraq, I can tell you that the majority of our Foreign Terrorist Fighters were not in Iraq; they are three people in Iraq. Three people landed in Iraq. I got access to two of them. The least we can say is that their death sentence is extremely far from the standards in force in Europe. These sentences are held on two pages with a large stamp and are based on documents that are normally unusable in terms of international cooperation. For one of these death sentences, this is a classified document of the Belgian services and a rogatory commission for the use of which no authorization has been requested. That is why we are extremely reserved and cautious when it comes to transmitting information and sending letters rogatory to Iraq. The French had the same joke. I can understand that, since this is a war zone. In this context, the priorities are not to invest in the judiciary. In any case, it is very complicated to work with Iraq if we want to respect the principles of our democracy. In May 2008, a discussion was held within the College of Attorneys General regarding the difficulty of the situation. Some 50 arrest warrants had been issued. The question arose as to how to execute them. As I told you, it was a political decision that was taken: it was about bringing people to a place where arrest warrants could be executed. As a reminder, I have not concluded a convention with Iraq – although, theoretically, a bilateral discussion would be possible – nor with Syria. The College of Attorneys General has determined how to prepare us in the event that some of the interested parties are able to return and has chosen the method to be followed to find a place where the international arrest warrant could be executed. It then decided that "the execution of an international arrest warrant issued by a Belgian investigating judge or in execution of a judgment or judgment shall be carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the assessment by the competent departments of its legal and practical feasibility and of the danger to public security. The Public Prosecutor's Office will request, on a case-by-case basis, through the Minister of Justice, the relevant services – FPS Justice, FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Office, OCAM, State Security, SGRS and Federal Police – to provide this assessment." Therefore, I instructed the judges of my "terrorist" section, when an FTF was the subject of an international arrest warrant and it was located on Syrian or Iraqi territory, even through a non-traditional route, to follow the procedure and request this assessment. I say via a non-classical way. Normally, when we have an international arrest warrant, the answer comes through Interpol, which says, "We have a hit, the person is here." At that time, we send all documents to carry out the mandate and exchanges take place at the procedural level. Of course, with Iraq, it doesn't work. With Turkey, it does not work either, since they have not carried out a single international arrest warrant for years. That is why we set up the hot spot procedure, since Turkey was expelling the Foreign Terrorism Fighters rather than executing international arrest warrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u8	When we had unclassified information, obviously, by an article in the press or by conventional investigative procedures, or when we learned, in one way or another, that such category 1 FTF was in such a camp, we started this procedure. There are now between 10 and 15 assessments made by the various services concerning persons for whom, if they were to arrive at a place where the international arrest warrant can be executed, we would have all the information necessary to put in place all the measures that might be necessary. I told you about the procedural issues. You might have been surprised. We have indeed pursued a policy of default convictions. There are already a lot of convictions by default, and we continue with this policy. Why? To have a little more control and to be able to report them internationally. Otherwise, we sometimes have holes in procedures. When an investigating judge is dismissed and a case is settled in court, it may take some time, especially when the person is not detained. Sometimes you could have moments when the person was not reported. We have put this policy in place. You will have noticed that most sentences are five years. This is the maximum we can get in our system right now. If you open your Criminal Code, you'll see it's ten years. So you'll ask me why it's five years. Because in the current system, which is the system where all crimes go to the assize court, I am obliged for these people to ask to recognize extenuating circumstances in advance in order to bring them all to the correctional court. If you ask me for my advice, I think they all deserve to go to the assize court. If I took them myself to the assize court, then the system would be completely paralyzed. This is impossible in the current state of affairs. We are in a rather paradoxical system in which Mr. who kills Madam (or vice versa) risks perpetuity without any possible appeal and passes before the jury, while I have to bring before the correctional court the Foreign Terrorism Fighters who committed atrocities – as far as I can prove them, and this is my next point. For these FTFs, even the fairly severe and significant penalties provided for in the terrorism laws must be reduced as I must bring them all before the correctional court. I wanted to draw your attention to this issue. Another problem is the issue of evidence and investigations. As you know, we will soon have a Rwanda assize court. It is not at all obvious to prove all the facts that have occurred on the scene because it takes a lot of time to gather testimony and others and often it is necessary to wait until the conflict situation has passed. I hear a lot about an international tribunal. If I am guaranteed that it will be quickly put in place and will respect all the guarantees and, among other things, the European Convention on Human Rights, who am I to object to that? Nevertheless, I have some doubts about the feasibility of this project. If this court is set up, I wonder what cases it will try these people on. My problem is this: we know that these people have committed atrocities (example: the one accused of being the executioner of Raqqa). A whole series of facts are reported on this file by the press, but I do not have an investigator who has travelled to Raqqa, in secure conditions, to feed the case against that person and allow me to demand a sentence that would be able to send that person for the rest of his life in prison. If I don't have that, the Iraqi court won't have that either. You have to say it and recognize it. These are all the problems that arise at the moment. Is it possible to get them back? In the current state of affairs, I must tell you that for the time being, all our information channels have been lost. So it's very complicated. We must wait to see how the situation will develop. At the moment, we are trying to track people with the little information we have, because we need to know that it is not the priority of the military who are on the spot. With the little information we have, we obviously try to track and control any returns. I agree with what Mr Paul Van Tigchelt said: they will not be hundreds to come back. Here we are talking about 55 people and those 55, I'm not sure that all will succeed in reaching Belgium. Nor should we have an alarmist vision and think that tomorrow we will have big terrorist attacks in Belgium. I agree with what the OCAM says: the biggest risk at the moment is the homegrown terrorist fighters. However, this situation still needs to be taken into account. I intended to inform you of the measures that the judicial authorities and, in particular, the Federal Prosecutor's Office have put in place to try, when possible, to be very effective, and perhaps also of the points on which we will have to think again in order to be even more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u9	I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You will have the floor first, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank the speakers for their introduction. I shall confine myself to a number of questions. I do not need to repeat the analysis or outline the situation. An important evolution in recent days is cooperation between the Kurds and Damascus. It was predictable, given the situation, but it creates an absolutely new situation. Does the information provided by the ADIV and the OCAD contain details of the fate of the surveillance of the camps which fell within the safe zone of Turkey and which may no longer be included? Mr Van de Voorde, you have a military background. How do you assess cooperation in the field and the evolution of opportunities? How relevant is it to the Turkish offensive? Any cooperation between the Kurds and the regime in Damascus can be an important game changer from a certain point of view. It has just been pointed out by one of you that in any case we had international problems to contact the Kurdish authorities. Imagine that the camps would now again fall under the jurisdiction of the regime in Damascus. How do you assess the consequences of this? That is a "welcome," and I would like to say something about potential interlocutors, even though we suspended our diplomatic relations with that country as long ago as 2012. We are talking about a member of the United Nations, which was not the case in the situation of the Kurds in Northern Syria. My question also refers to a sentence that was just said by Mr Van de Voorde, namely that we will have to talk to Russia. That's consistent with what I just said. To what extent will we have to talk to Russia? To the extent that the United States is pulling out of there? This may be regretted or welcomed, but that changes the situation on the ground radically. After all, Russia does not give the impression that it will withdraw there. On the contrary, space for Russia may have increased there as a co-determinator of what is happening there. As for the five escapees or the five that are no longer on the radar, three women and two men, how shall we proceed? What approach do we take? I think Mr Van Tigchelt said that we should not take the same view of the cases. That goes without saying. A comb shaving over one thing is usually a dubious comb. You're talking about various levels of threat. What guarantee do you have that you will be able to assess adequately and correctly whether someone is situated at the right level of threat by you, so that we do not encounter unpleasant surprises for lack of information? After all, you must also work with the information provided to you. How reliable and complete is it to say that we are at threat level 1 or 2, when perhaps we are dealing with a potential time bomb because of lack of information? Also quite a spicy question I want to ask, concerns the deal with Turkey. Mr Van Tigchelt, you spoke about the hotspot procedure. If I'm not misinformed, that hotspot procedure will be restarted. We now have two liaison officers in Turkey, I understand. When the Turks intercept an FTF, what happens? How are these agreements with Turkey guaranteed? In the past, it has already happened that someone could happen to leave the plane in Schiphol without us knowing anything. What about rebooting that hotspot procedure? How should we situate this against the background of the fact that there are some problems with the way Turkey is currently operating in the region. That's why you were invited here. We are sitting there with an elephant in a porcelain shop, with which we must be able to work together to ensure that there are not too many elephants in our porcelain shop. How do you see that paradox? That's what it is, of course, if it's an apparent contradiction, otherwise it's a contradiction. It's up to you to explain it to us. Should we consider the evacuation of FTFs and even women and children today, where children aged two, three or four years cannot be called FTFs, what are the technical possibilities, given the changed situation on the ground, because this is now a war situation? I understand that the US has made an attempt to transfer people to Iraq, but that attempt would have failed. If the US even literally and figuratively pushes on borders, then I think we should also realistically assess our own ambitions in this area. How many FTFs were there before the invasion in captivity within the strip controlled by the Assad regime? Are we in contact with the regime about this? What's their fate? What about the family members? We are constantly talking about the strip that Turkey wants to secure and the Kurdish-controlled area in North-East Syria, but Syria is of course bigger than that. What about FTFs in the rest of Syria? This to start with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u11	Gentlemen, thank you for being available for our hearing in a short time. I go back to my starting point to put a number of questions to you. That's two-fold. On the one hand, there is the group of children, for which there has been an agreement for more than two years to bring them back. I paraphrase Mr Van Tigchelt: a group for whom there is a very serious humanitarian problem. On the other hand, the scenario for adult warriors is increasingly pressing that, if I may sum up as well, rapid trial, detention and, above all, control over whereabouts is required, in order to guarantee our national security as well. First of all, I have a very simple question for all of you. What is your formal opinion on what needs to be done now for these two groups in the short term? Mr Van Tigchelt, first of all, I would like to know whether the National Security Council has proactively requested an analysis before the invasion of Turkey, which we know was coming. If not, how long has it been since a threat analysis was conducted? Secondly, the decision of the National Security Council to bring the children back under ten dates back to 2017. Was that decision also based on your advice at the time? If so, has your advice changed since then? Are there any additional elements that you would now argue for? Mr van de Voorde, I would like to ask you the following. First of all, how do you estimate possible operations in Syria? Just so we're clear, I'm not talking military operations. There's a lot of confusion. If I read the press correctly, the Ministers of the National Security Council consider that it is almost impossible to operate in the area where Turkey has been invaded. On the other hand I hear, for example, the team of Child Focus and the VUB say that they are ready and that until now they think it is possible to bring back children. Secondly, have there been any contacts since the Turkish invasion with the Kurdish authorities? Are there agreements with local actors, Kurds or others, to keep an eye on the IS fighters and follow their whereabouts, given the developments? Mr Van Leeuw, in the scenario that the adult fighters would return, is Belgium ready to prosecute 57 adults if necessary? What are we waiting for in that area? The three most cited scenarios currently on the table are: trial in an international tribunal, trial in Iraq or in the region or here. What is your assessment for each of these scenarios in terms of feasibility and desirability, both in the short, medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u12	Madam President, this is obviously a very complex issue, which we must address by distinguishing its various aspects. As far as the children are concerned, you have made it very clear. This is not a security issue, but a humanitarian issue. You have therefore pleaded for the earliest possible return of those children who are in danger of death and who, moreover, die on the ground. I ask, Madam President, that we hear in committee the delegate general for the rights of the child, who has expertise and who has organised a conference to which Mr. Van Tigchelt was involved a few weeks ago. I think it is useful and necessary to receive the delegate quickly, in order to establish an effective position on the issue of the return of children. I also propose that we receive the CAPREV – Centre d'Aide et de Care for anyone concerned by the Violent Extremisms and Radicalisms – from the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, which also has expertise in monitoring returns, and FTFs. As far as adults are concerned, the problem is also extremely complex. Indeed, each option carries risks. If we leave them there, we run the risk of them escaping, fainting in nature and becoming potential dangers for us again. This risk increases in the light of developments on the ground and the increasing inability of the Kurds, in particular, to monitor them. There is a second risk to leave them there: to offer the Syrian regime, for example, the possibility of a means of pressure, which would allow it, tomorrow, to say, even if I caricature somewhat: "We hold the jihadists; you leave us alone otherwise we release them." As you mentioned, on the other hand, if we bring them back here, we must take into account two imperatives. The first is security, and the second is respect for fundamental rights. It is not a question of compromise, of finding an in-between or a point of balance. It is a matter of respecting these two imperatives, one in each hand. There is a major difficulty here, which I believe is the burden of proof. You said it yourself, Mr. Van Leeuw, most of them will take five years. Now, they may, and probably even, have blood on their hands, and perhaps even a lot. I must be very uncomfortable with the idea that we can repatriate FTFs, condemn them, but only condemn them to five years. I come from a city, Verviers, which has been very marked by this problem and I do not forget what the mother of a fighter detained for the moment, according to my information, in northern Iraq: "As a mother, I do not wish my son to come back because he is going to purge two, three, four, five years and then I know that he remains dangerous, at least I am not sure that he is no longer." This is a mother's speech that we have to hear because he is perhaps the most credible. What is your analysis of the hierarchy of these different risks? At one point, these risks exist, they need to be prioritised in order to make a decision. In relation to this, we in the Socialist Party, for the time being at least, are defending the idea of setting up a special tribunal that can respect international standards and fundamental rights, while avoiding the return of people who remain dangerous. What is your analysis of this special court idea? What are the main obstacles for you on the road to such a device? I also have a question for Mr. Van de Voorde, who seems important to me for the conflict and its evolution. I am not talking about the conflict that started last week, but about the conflict that started in 2011 with the Syrian revolution. An agreement was signed between the Kurds and the Syrian regime, which some have already described as "an agreement with the devil". Do you consider that it is likely to alter the balance of power between the regime and the opposition, i.e. to allow the regime to recover territories or even consider a form of rehabilitation? It is important, once again, for the reading of the conflict and for its evolution. A final question was quickly raised. It is that of the potential tensions, here in Belgium, between the Kurdish community and the Turkish community. I come from a city that I love but that is sometimes a microcosm of many things. In Verviers, in fact, not this night but the one before, a Kurdish local was targeted by individuals who broke its windows. I would not want to ignore the potential risks of increasing tensions between different communities in various territories, in the north or south of the country and, of course, in Brussels. I'm done right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u13	Madam President, I would like to thank the three experts for their report. I would have liked an answer to the following questions. Do we know how many civilian casualties have already been made by the pro-Turkish militias? I am thinking, for example, of the murder of the Syrian-Kurdish politician Hevrin Khalaf. Is the threat level in our country being raised because of the possible tensions or can the threat level also be raised regionally? Mr Van Tigchelt, have you had any contact with the government? Last week, the Minister for the Interior said that there is an agreement with seven European countries to try the IS fighters in the region where they committed their crimes. This is contrary to the vision of the OCAD to try IS fighters in Belgium. Is there a new wave of radicalisation in Belgium because of this situation? Finally, it was said a few days ago that Turkey will never allow FTFs to enter Turkish territory. Since Turkey is now threatening to open the gate to the European mainland, we can still speak of an increased threat. Do we have an emergency plan for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u14	Madam President, I thank our guests for first handing us this restricted information. If I may, I will make two observations. We're in two special tempos. First of all, I will tell you that the first step is emergency. The second step is the possible management of the repatriation of "Belgians" detained in Syria or present in camps, which will take place in the medium term. We can discuss how to do it afterwards. In this context, I would like to point out that it is essential for me – especially when I hear you, Mr Van Leeuw – to recreate the channels of information with the personalities on the spot, simply because losing the information is losing sight of these FTFs. It means losing sight of their families, their wives, their children. The first emergency is, therefore, to monitor not only FTFs who are held in prisons but also women and children who are in camps. It is now apparent that the situation in Syria is particularly difficult as a result of the Turkish bombings. They will therefore have to be monitored and supported by the Kurds. And if not to support the Kurds, we will have to find another way to monitor them. I come to this idea which I submit to you for your consideration and which consists of concluding a police agreement with the countries most affected by the current reality, namely in order: France, Germany, Belgium in the third place, the Netherlands, Sweden and Denmark. Why not conclude a police agreement since a military agreement cannot be concluded? We can't send troops to Syria. Parliament decided so a few months ago. Syria is in a state of war. We know that. Why not try to conclude an intra-European police agreement to send police officers to monitor these detainees? This is the first emergency. Secondly, I agree with my colleague Ben Achour when he talks about essential humanitarian aid in the camps in order to avoid an ever-increasing radicalisation. If we do not help these women, these children, these families to have a dignified life in a humanitarian way, there is a risk of a return of flame with even more radicalization, while it is already present in these camps at the moment. You have to say it. I know that these tasks are not easy but to do nothing, in the light of the war that is taking place in Syria, would be much worse. I come to my questions. You're talking about a pyramid of ages. I have seen the documents that you have given us on the pyramid of Belgian ages currently in camps in Syria and in prisons. The age pyramid is one thing, but do we have a pyramid of the dangerousness of these people? This is ultimately the most important criterion in my view today. In the documents you deliver to us, there is the state of fact that a male FTF minor may have been liquidated or died. So it's a child. This means that, in your own documents, you admit that minors are combatants. That is why I would like to know the danger pyramid of these individuals, regardless of their sex and age. It is essential to have this dangerous pyramid in order to make political decisions about repatriation or not and to define who should be repatriated. The same applies to women. Some political groups regularly have the intuition that women are unfortunately the victims of decisions taken by their jihadist husbands. But it can also be seen from your analyses that the degree of dangerousness of some women is also important. According to the documents you showed us, 27 adult women are catalogued as Category 1 Foreign Figthers, which is not nothing. I therefore disagree with my colleague from Ecolo-Groen when she sets out categories by saying that there are, on the one hand, jihadists who are detained and, on the other hand, women and children. Like my group, I am convinced that every time we decide to repatriate an individual, whether male or female, younger or older, an assessment study will be required on a case-by-case basis. As you said, Mr. Van Leeuw, we lost our information channels. So how can we control possible returns? And, above all, is there better access on site to organize these returns? Is it easy, at a time when we are talking about ourselves, to organize such returns, to go to the camps where the Belgians are going to Syria? From the moment we know these people, what are the structures we have in Belgium to follow them properly, in other words taking into account their pedigree, their dangerousness? It is not enough to bring back children. At some point, they will also have to be taken into account. What about the supervision of convicts? I'm going back to what Mr. Ben Achour. Indeed, people are at risk of being repatriated to our homes, of being sentenced, of serving a sentence of three, four, five years, according to the decision that has been made. But how can the judge decide on the conviction when, in the end, very little evidence has been gathered on the spot about possible harm? What can be done to follow these people after a possible conviction and after their eventual release? Mr Van Leeuw, as you pointed out, it is obviously difficult to establish judicial cooperation with Syria. But do you have any avenues for better judicial cooperation with Iraq – indeed, we know that Belgium has been cooperating fairly extensively for two years now – in order to ensure that trials are properly held in accordance with our human rights standards? Do we share information on the reintegration of prisoners who have arrived at home? You mentioned 130 prisoners who have already returned to Belgium. Do we already have information on the return of these people? This information could be fundamental to the choices that we will have to make in the coming days or weeks. Do we share information on the reintegration of these people in Belgium? And what about the return to neighbouring countries that are, in the end, in the same situation as us? Finally, with regard to the links between Belgium and the Red Cross, in this case the Red Crescent, according to your expertise, would this organization be useful for us to oversee these repatriations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u15	Madam President, may I briefly repeat, as I am referred to? I simply want to make it clear that I have not nuanced the risks between women and men, but I have simply made a difference between children and adults. I therefore stressed the need for a different approach between these two categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u16	Madam President, this is precisely my reproach: there is a difference between children and adults. However, in the documents we have just received from the SGRS, it is clearly stated that a minor of age was FTF. That is why I think it is necessary to act on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u17	The government's decision to set the age of ten for underage children had to do with that sensitivity, but I always advocate that we continue to distinguish between children and adults. There are many children who can only be said to be born as a child of a mother and father who may and may have something serious, but that is the only thing. I believe that, regardless of the risks, which we should certainly take into account, we should maintain that distinction. I therefore come directly to my questions. Does the changed security situation in the region call for the choices made by the government at the time, in particular the ten-year limit, to be adjusted or not? Should or should additional measures be taken in the light of the changed security situation there? Let's be clear. If it's possible to hold and try people there, that option is my preferred option. It is also the easiest solution, but of course not under every condition. That brings me to the question of a fair trial. That question goes a little further than non-pronunciation or execution of the death penalty. It also deals with the way in which the process is conducted. We are still a democratic country, aren't we? Apart from the gravity and gravity of the crimes and the danger posed by some of the offenders, most of them have already been condemned in absentia, so we can call them that. I'm looking at you right now. A solution requires not only European consultation, but also consultation with countries with which we are at least not friends at the moment. We criticize Turkey, but we will have to talk to it. We criticize Iraq, but we will have to talk to it. Surely we will not accept their condition that we must pay 2 million per FTF per year to keep them there? These are insane prices that taxpayers pay for. How do we get movement in the possible establishment of an international tribunal on the ground to speak justice? As far as the security risk is concerned, your figures indicate that 450 people are still in prison, one third of whom are dead, one third of whom are already back in our country, have been convicted and are often in prison, and one third of whom are still in the region, one third of whom are men and two thirds of whom are women. Most of it is outside the safety zone. How many are in the safety zone? How many are there a potential risk? Then I come to the international arrest mandate, Mr Van Leeuw. You say that it is not as bad as we are barely getting information flow from Iraq or Turkey. You referred to the two known cases. As soon as Bakraoui reaches the Netherlands or Nemmouche Malaysia, the international arrest warrant of course has something to do with it. Those people, who might even come to our country without taking the plane, pass through a lot of countries where the international arrest mandate has a relevance. Are we not actually making the risk a little too great, although I do not want to minimize it? What struck me is that you have corrected them in order to be able to condemn them in absentia, but that correction does have consequences. Does that not mean that the change in the penal law that we introduced at the end of the previous legislature, with higher and faster penalties, because the least involvement leads to punishment, is mainly theory and that in practice this has had little effect as a result of the correction? Finally, we are talking about numbers that are not enormous. How do they relate to the homegrown terrorists? We must not lose sight of this, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u18	Madam Chair, gentlemen, thank you for your briefing. I'll be brief. I have two specific questions. Given the changing situation, are future escapes envisaged or are the places secure? How can this risk be estimated? My second question concerns children on the spot. Is there a procedure or have steps been taken to comply with the 2017 agreement and to repatriate children under the age of 10 in order to get them out of the hell they live there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u19	Madam President, I would like to begin by saying that we are very sorry for the civilian population there. We must not forget that a major humanitarian disaster is taking place and that the situation in the region is once again very worrying by a decision by our good friend, Mr Trump. This decision caused a snowball effect in an already highly flammable region. Actually, that's the last thing we needed. Of course, the IS warriors also worry us. Our vision as far as they are concerned is actually always the same and has always been very clear. People who willingly and knowingly have made the choice to go there and cooperate with a pernicious organization like IS, do not get a chance for us to return. This applies to both men and women. There would still be 27 women on the scene. Some have come back nicely to give birth here and have then returned to the country where it is all so much better. Well, then we simply say that we agree with them and if it is so much better over there, then they should stay there too. This also means, of course, that there must be a trial in the region itself. People should not be allowed to go free after such crimes. That's why Open Vld is pulling the cart of the international tribunal. Because it has to happen quickly, it does not have to be such a large UN tribunal, because it takes too much time. That is why we prefer a hybrid tribunal, with trial on the ground, of course under international supervision and, as Mr Verherstraeten said, according to our principles of fair trial which indeed go a little further than the death penalty. Above all, however, it must be done quickly and with respect for human rights. It seems to Open Vld the greatest certainty that people who have committed crimes there will be tried there as well. We do not want to run the risk that a man such as the executioner of Raqqa could go free of this because of lack of evidence. We know it's hard, but as I always say to my children, it's hard. Has there been any talk of international trial with the other seven countries? Which brings me to my final question, about the children there. In this context, I heard a nice sentence about the children: "There is no security problem, there is a humanitarian problem." I myself was there two years ago in a number of refugee camps in those regions. I have clearly seen problems of overpopulation and malnutrition, but also the risk of being immersed in the caliphate there. The sooner you get those kids out of there, the better. That is why we are saying that these children should be allowed to return to their homes. We're not saying they should return. After all, their mothers and fathers have deliberately made a choice and must remain there. The children may return themselves, but without their mother. My next two questions relate to this. After all, we are talking about children up to 10 years old. Are all 69 children under the age of 10? If not, how do we estimate the risks of children between 10 and 18 years old? To what extent are they still a child? Are they a risk and do we have clear criteria for assessing these risks? A second question concerns guidance. If children of any age come back here, in foster homes or with their grandparents, how long and in what way are we going to accompany them? We must not only guide them from a humane point of view, but also to reduce the risk to ourselves. After all, I have been able to see for myself that these children have seen things that can put their psychological well-being at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u20	Madam President, I would like to thank the speakers who were very soon prepared to inform us here. Gentlemen, you are all representatives of our security departments, and with my questions I would like to focus primarily on the security aspects of recent developments in the region of Northern Syria. I have heard both Mr Van Tigchelt and Mr Van Leeuw rightly stress that it is very important to monitor the safety risks and to keep everything on the radar as much as possible. The exchange of information is therefore crucial. Furthermore, we must ensure that we effectively try those who have committed crimes in our country and there. You also said that this must be done in a serious way. There are different scenarios for this trial, but there are also two simple conditions. Firstly, in order to be able to judge, we must have a guarantee that those who wish to be tried do not escape. Those FTFs have been in the region a long time. It is therefore not recent that we should discuss the guarantees regarding the monitoring of these FTFs. So my first question is what happens now to the FTFs who are in the region. I hear five of them escaped. According to the information we can get from the newspapers, it appears that the Americans are trying to transfer the so-called heavy cases from northern Syria to Iraq. Are we involved in that operation? Is that what the Americans do with Belgian FTFs? Is there cooperation at European level to better monitor European FTFs, not just to keep them on radar, but also to monitor them? It is a question that I asked for the first time when America signaled that Europeans themselves had to take responsibility for their European FTFs. At that moment, the alarm signal went off. That was not at the time when Trump gave Erdogan the green light to invade northern Syria, but at the time when Trump indicated that Europeans had to make their move in the field of FTF security. That was, among other things, in February 2019. Have steps been taken at the level of the National Security Council to control that risk and ensure that surveillance was guaranteed? Without proper surveillance, there is no proper trial. My next question has to do with the criminal record. Federal Attorney Van Leeuw has rightly stressed that, in order to be able to judge, there must be a strong criminal record. Mr. Prosecutor, you set the example of the so-called executioner of Raqqa. You indicated that, in addition to everything that can be read on all media about the possible crimes he might have committed, you had other information. If I understand correctly, that information has not yet been collected, according to the rules of art, in a criminal record. Is there any form of judicial cooperation with other bodies to carry out the taking of evidence in a serious way? After all, you also indicated that the files of the three FTFs in Iraq, which you have been able to look at, are lean in terms of evidence, because the way in which evidence is being taken in Iraq is not in line with our standards of prosecution and trial. I'd like to know when you checked those files. If you then make a statement, I wonder whether it was not possible at that time to take steps to send surveyors to Turkey before the whole discussion began. Regardless of where the trial takes place, there is in any case a need for a strong criminal record. On Monday, you said on the radio that you were going to ask the government to do this first. You have also stressed that although military intelligence services are active in the region, what military personnel are doing is not the same as what representatives of the judiciary are doing. I therefore believe that it is high time we got those criminal records ready. I would like to share Mr Ben Achor's concern in this regard. We must at all costs avoid being burdened with criminal records that allow FTFs to receive only a maximum sentence of five years because only their membership can be proven to a terrorist organisation. Evidence and surveillance require the use of people and resources. With regard to the taking of evidence, our country started a cooperation with the United Nations, the so-called International, Impartial and Independent Mechanism in 2016. This system is led by a French prosecutor who deals with the collection of evidence. Our country would have already committed EUR 1.6 million to that system to support that mechanism and ensure that those files are built up. What has our country done in concrete terms in this respect? Are these useful steps or should other measures be taken? I read, among other things, that France, Sweden and the Netherlands are in the process of strengthening judicial cooperation in Iraq. Of course, this isn't easy. We agree that judicial cooperation in that region is particularly complex. Apart from the discussion about the type of court, criminal records are mostly needed. You have said that sending surveyors is the most urgent thing to do. What does that mean in concrete terms? Mr Van Tigchelt, you say that it will be less obvious to return from that region. I suspect that you are referring to, among other things, the agreements that have been made with Turkey. What is your assessment of Turkey's own threats to European countries? In recent days, it was stated that if Europe condemned the Turkish invasion and the European countries took action, such as economic sanctions or arms embargoes, the doors would be opened. We are in danger of having a refugee crisis and no longer controlling possible FTFs who are threatening to come to our country. How threatening are these threats from Erdogan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u21	Madam President, when I asked you to invite those responsible for our safety, we were in another world. It was before the Turkish offensive. It was a question of whether our security officials had succeeded in convincing the Belgian government of their merits and of their arguments. We had heard two of them plead for us to get hold of these jihadists, these Belgian nationals, these men, these women, these children, in order to better ensure our safety, to make them judge. In short, to ensure that justice is done and security is strengthened. Today, this debate on where to judge these people has a surreal, absurd side. This is a debate that we should have had for a very long time. This is a debate that the government has always wanted to avoid. Everyone put their heads in the sand and refused to see what was happening and what was being announced. Today we are facing an out-of-control situation. Those who think that we can still get them back there, judge them, or we can get our hands on them, do not know the situation on the ground at all! The only way to conduct a debate that would make sense is to stop the offensive that is underway. And stop it quickly! We could be able to afford it. The proof? The two F-15 Americans who intervened when it came to protecting U.S. nationals. On the other hand, when it comes to trying to prevent this threat from developing, we are unable to move, unable to carry out coherent and relevant actions. I think that when our democracies, including our country, abdicate and entrust to third parties, in chaotic countries, countries where terrorism is rife, countries without governance, their own security, when they entrust to third parties the justice that is to be done, these democracies become fragile and send a bad signal on what a democracy should be. It should be a place where security and justice can be firmly ensured and those who must be condemned must be, and those who must be protected, as children, must be. We have this debate today; better late than never. I hear that, in reality, we have entrusted these jihadists to Bashar al-Assad, in a certain way and with the force of not wanting to deal with this problem. What power have we given him! We also eventually entrusted it to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, since he promised to release these fighters from Daesh. What power have we given him! We had also given that power to Russia or Turkey. However, we were told by Turkey, throughout the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks, that it was a country with which cooperation on terrorism was very difficult. Our relations with this country will obviously not be arranged today, we know and feel it. That is our situation and what we must try to manage today. You have been very clear on all these issues. We'll have to question our government. But has anything finally emerged from this National Security Council about a common point of view between our security services, our intelligence services and politicians, or do politicians continue to advocate for solutions that are not? I know what an international criminal court is. These are years of litigation, billions of money, and two, three or four people tried. We have tried 135 people in our country and there are still 55 to judge. That's the equation. She doesn't seem extraordinarily difficult. An international criminal court is also a decision of the Security Council. The Americans have already said no. We know there won't be any. To entrust this to Iraq, who systematically condemns to death? This country says, "If you don't want them to be condemned to death, you have to pay us two million a year." Will our democracies solve terrorism and jihadism in this way? I don't believe it. I really urge that we finally adopt a coherent, proactive and coordinated attitude with the other European countries, and that we stop being afraid of public opinion. Indeed, we are afraid of these opinions, but we never explain to them that it is in the interests of people, for their safety, that we must work, and that is how it is. Neither Mr. Van Tigchelt, neither Mr. Van Leeuw, or General Van de Voorde, are not at the head of charitable organizations. If they tell us that we have to take care of this problem proactively, in the way they propose it, we have a better interest to listen to them. We have entrusted the responsibility for our safety to these people. That's how we'll work best. My question is: Are we finally going to have a coherent policy in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u22	I would now like to give the floor to the speakers for their answers, even in the order they have just given. Lieutenant General Van de Voorde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u23	Thank you very much. I will try to group together the questions that are within my remit. First of all, I would like to talk about how we should see cooperation in the field between Syria and the Kurds. That's very simple: it's a game changer. The Kurds are proposing it as a military agreement and not a political agreement, but what we see on the ground is that Syrian troops are actually a political weapon, a deterrent shield against the Turks, who are exactly calmer and less offensive in their actions. Hence our temporary conclusion that they will limit themselves to that rectangle of 100 kilometers long and 30 kilometers deep. Does that mean that our interlocutors will change in the future? Well, that could be good. So I think there is also a question at the level of our interlocutors for the future. Indeed, in Syria, Assad's regime may once again take over in the north-east of the country. It is therefore an element that will play and be important. It is therefore once again a masterful move by the Russian regime, which strengthens its position in the region to the detriment of the EU, NATO and so on. I have been asked for forecasts. Is it possible that escapes will occur in the future? It's not an exact science. It can only be said that, at the beginning of the conflict, the situation was indeed very turbulent in the camps, in the prisons. There were small riots, but now the situation has stabilized and calmed down. It will depend on Turkey's intentions. As I have said, our assessment at the moment is that Turkey will limit itself to where it is now and that we will have a stalemate with the situation on the ground as it is today. Are we able to launch an operation of any kind in Syria? We must be honest: all Western powers are leaving. The ears and eyes we had there and our few contacts on the ground disappear. It has already been mentioned here that the Americans initially had the opportunity to repatriate the most dangerous FTFs, some fifty-to-sixty ones, but that is not going to happen. We have heard from sources that they are simply not going to do so. This makes it clear how difficult it is for countries on the ground to set up such an operation. All I can say is that we will continue to monitor the situation with all possible means. We still have people in Iraq who also have a network, and we remain active there to provide the best possible picture of what is happening. They asked about the victims. I have data on military and civilian casualties to be complete. At the moment I have the following figures. Six Turkish soldiers have already been killed. A number that is difficult to calculate is that of the National Syrian Army, the troops that fight with the Turks. There goes the number of 12 to 120 victims. 154 YPG fighters have also been killed. As far as civilian casualties are concerned, 69 Syrian civilian casualties and 20 civilian casualties on the Turkish side have already been caused by Kurdish mortar attacks. That was the situation this morning at 8:00. In practice, I find it no longer feasible to launch such an operation. Everything goes, my grandfather said, except a worm crawls. I think we should wait until the situation stabilizes. We must wait and see who our future partners will be in the region. That's what it was basically for me. The rest is more for my colleagues, Mr Van Tigchelt and Mr Van Leeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u24	Madam President, there are quite a few questions about the five escapees. I would ask you to look at this with a little more nuance than this snapshot today. I explained to you that it concerns three people who have not escaped, but who have left a camp that is no longer there. I also spoke about those two others north of Syria. I wish to reverse the reasoning. What's that got to do with the threat? On 22 January 2018, the OCAD lowered the threat of 3 on a scale of 4 to 2 on a scale of 4. The OCAD did this at a time when most FTFs were still out there in Syria and Iraq. The fact that two would have escaped now is no reason to panic about that now. That's not what we're supposed to do here. We call for peace and quiet. The invasion of the Turks is not so much a game changer in that respect. There's constant movement in those camps. I told you the camp Al-Hol was already under pressure. There is indeed information that people would have disappeared from those camps before Turkey's invasion of Syria. That's almost a permanent wave of coming and going, as it were. On January 22, 2018, when we lowered the threat level, most of those people were still out there. I come to Mr De Roover's pertinent question: how can the OCAD judge that correctly, let alone correctly? That is not clear. For this we depend on information from domestic and foreign services. That information can come from a variety of sources, as you know. It is not obvious to judge that correctly, but it is our duty to try to do so. We do it as faithfully and as accurately as possible. You asked the question and that meant almost as much as they answered. This is very difficult because the information on the ground is not before us for various reasons. As far as hotspots are concerned, we wanted to know to what extent the agreements with Turkey are guaranteed. All I can say is that they are what they are. That is also in line with Mrs Kherbache's question, namely how threatening Mr Erdogan's statements are. Fortunately, the OCAD should not make threat analyses of the Heads of State's statements. It goes without saying, however, that statements can lead to certain actions and that certain actions can lead to a changed security situation there that has an impact on us too. That is what we are following. Fortunately, however, geopolitics is not my profession. A lot of questions have been asked about the children. Questions concerning children were asked, inter alia, by Mrs Soors and by Messrs. Ben Achour and De Maegd. To the latter, I will reply that the OCAM does not consider at its discretion who is or is not FTF. There are regulations in the form of the 2016 law and royal decrees made with a view to implementing it. Children who have reached the age of 12 are therefore automatically considered as such. We are working with the Privacy Commission and the Council of State on this issue. It is with them that we have determined this age criterion to assess the danger of a child. Minors under 12 years of age are registered with their father and mother in the OCAM database. Mrs. Liekens has asked questions about the children. We must once again stress that one child is not the other. It goes without saying that a three-year-old child is different from a 16-year-old child. We all know that children from the age of eight or nine years, as history has taught us, may have received military training and may have been indoctrinated. Most of our kids there are very young. Children from three to four years old have seen terrible and wrong things. They suffer mainly from trauma and should therefore also be considered traumatized victims, no matter what we do. The decision already taken by the government in December 2017 was translated into texts of the National Security Council in February 2018. I have to reply in the affirmative to the question as to whether we have been involved. That goes without saying. The services have been given a say in this matter. In the end, however, the primacy of politics prevails. We're civil servants. When political decisions are taken, we have to accept them. That's what we do. Mrs Soors, you asked questions about the relationship between the OCAD and/or the services and the National Security Council. I can tell you that the National Security Council asks the OCAD to present each month a general threat assessment or, better expressed, to make and propose in the National Security Council what we are still doing. Of course, we don't do that for pleasure. We do so in order to allow the other authorities, such as the National Security Council, the Crisis Centre, the integrated police forces and the army, to use the appropriate means as far as possible. After all, you know that resources are scarce. It is therefore better to ensure that the funds are used correctly. The OCAD tries to contribute to this. That's the relationship between the OCAD and the National Security Council. I'm jumping off the heel on the branch. You're asking for my advice on the children. You heard me. It's about young, traumatized children. We all agree that these children do not belong where they are now. Saying that is one thing. Solving the problem, of course, is a little more difficult. That is another matter; that is less obvious. We were also asked how we evaluate this. A number of children have already returned. In June 2019, six orphans or unaccompanied minors returned. Before them, more than twenty children had returned. They are mainly approached by aid, as is the case in our country and by law. The procedures of youth protection law and youth sanctions law are used in this respect. The measures are rolled out by services which depend on the Communities. We try to work with them as best we can. It is a matter of cooperation between the federal and regional levels, each within the range of its powers. We have already built up some experience in this area and learned some lessons. Can you do better? I suppose so. Of course we can do better, but we have already built up a certain amount of experience in this area. The same applies to the services of the Communities. A lot of questions were asked about what to do with the adults. Everyone actually agrees that they should be tried according to the principles, I should not repeat which principles. It is then added every time: if possible. That is the most important condition at the moment. It is not up to us here and today to comment on this. It's being looked at at a different level. It is not appropriate and appropriate to comment on this. Our advice is that the conditions as we have tried to list them must be fulfilled and that they will then be translated into practice on the ground. At present, there is no clear answer for these adults, for the FTFs, on what is best. It needs to be looked at for a piece of case by case. What is best for our safety, in the short and long term? How can the principle of security be reconciled with a number of other elements at political, geopolitical, international law and humanitarian level? I am telling you, and with that I am kicking down an open door, which is far from an easy dossier. The various governments in this country are working on this. It was also the subject of discussion earlier in the National Security Council. For the rest, Mr Dallemagne, I do not think it is my task to communicate to you any decisions that have been taken by the National Security Council. Political authorities will communicate in this regard at the appropriate time. The services are involved in this body to provide advice and expertise. That's how the system has to work, please excuse me. There was another question from Mr Verherstraeten about how many HTFs there are. They are also registered in the Common Database. We currently have between 40 and 50 people, and you will forgive me if I am wrong about some of them who meet the criteria laid down by law to be considered an HTFer and which are followed from a safety point of view in the GGB. In addition, there are a number of hate propagandaists. Those are the hate-mongers. Of these, about 80 are currently registered with the OCAD. How many FTFs are in the safety zone and how many aren't? Most of them are in Al-Hol. Al-Hol's not in the buffer zone. Al-Roj is in the buffer zone. There are about ten adult FTFs and about fourteen children under the age of 12. Mr De Maegd, of course we are trying to establish a pyramid of danger. They are all considered FTF, as soon as they reach the age of 12, whether they are male or female. But you don't have to put them all in the same basket. On the basis of the information available to us, an individual threat assessment is required. There are FTFs with a level of threat 1, others with a higher level of threat. This classification shall be made on the basis of the available information. One FTF is not the other and the situation of each can change. Our goal is to be able to delete FTFs from our list. Category 3 FTFs (returns) have already served their sentences, have been released and have been reintegrated into society. This is therefore possible. It is also necessary to be able to announce the good news, although it is difficult to talk about good news in this area. Anyway, there are stories that can end well. I hope I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u25	A lot of answers have already been given. I've had a lot of questions about the procedure. Then I feel more in my comfort zone. I'm not used to coming to the External Relations Committee. There was a question about the choice between an international tribunal or trial here. That's the key question. If one were to be able to set up an international tribunal, with which one could bring these people to justice with a proper procedure on the ground, why not? Those people have committed many crimes there. The victims can also be heard on the spot. They may also be able to take control of the procedure, although I must add that this is not the case everywhere, even in a number of European countries. The victims do not have the same status as in our country, where bourgeois parties can be found. I know that a great deal of effort is being made in this regard. The establishment of an international tribunal is very difficult. These are mixed procedures of the American system, common law systems and continental systems. Those are long and difficult procedures. One has to have a mix. It will take time to set up such a tribunal. The other alternative is to try them here or in another European country. All possibilities are open. To be very clear, default sentences of up to five years are handed down for participation in the activities of a terrorist group. This does not mean, if there is evidence of anything other than being a member of a terrorist group, if there is evidence of murder or other terrorist misdemeanours, that then I cannot open other proceedings and even bring the person to the assize court. What I can't do is condemn twice for the same thing. These convictions are by default. When people come back, they can also object; so there will be a trial again anyway. I made the parallel with the genocide in Rwanda. There are sometimes people who have come here, who have been granted refugee status; 15 or 20 years later, they are gathered and decided to send them to the assize court for a crime against humanity. Here, it's a little the same thing. I hope that as evidence and testimony can be gathered and used, some trials will be possible and that, if that does not change, we can even arrive at assize convictions, as long as I have enough evidence. Mr Verherstraeten has, I think, correctly referred to the international arrest mandate. That is precisely why we have issued that international arrest mandate, namely to gain more control. If someone comes somewhere else, that person will at least be on his way. We also know that this is not an absolute guarantee. There are, for example, a number of countries, I have quoted Iraq, which are either not paying attention or not participating in the system. That's right. In other cases, that's usually the case. Those international arrest mandates are simply issued to gain more control. This raises the question of whether a prosecutor can just decide to issue an international arrest mandate. That is a decision of a court or a court of appeal. Can one just decide not to execute a decision of an investigating judge? That is another discussion that needs to be held. You have approved higher sentences, as we had requested, but punishment is for the future. An amendment to the procedure may be applied immediately. That's my proposal. If, at the Court of Assists, the correction is suddenly abolished, I can ask for almost double the penalty. I can't do this right now. I could do it in theory, but bringing 47 people before the court of assistants now is not doable for the Belgian system. Mrs Kherbache asked me this question. In Brussels there are only four magistrates who can chair a court of assistants. There'll be two of them working on the Assenhof before March 22nd. This is not feasible in the Belgian system. That's way too expensive. In theory, that's doable. I could bring them all to the court of assists, but that's impossible. However, making this change would allow us to receive more or other penalties before the courts or before a criminal chamber. This would apply immediately, including to those who have committed acts in the past. This is a procedural law. However, if new sanctions are suddenly adopted, as you have done with that intermediate step between membership and leader of a terrorist organisation, this will only apply for the future. A lot of questions were asked about the criminal record and cooperation. Over the years, we have invested a great deal in cooperation with other countries. A lesson that we have learned since 2014 is that we cannot handle it alone as a judicial authority of a country such as Belgium. It has taken some time to establish cooperation with our neighbouring countries. That wasn't always so obvious because our systems are different. That sometimes complicates the evidence collection. For example, the British treat everything as intelligence, so that everything is classified information up to a certain stage, after which the court takes over the case. The French have a police service with two caps; they are also an intelligence service. We chose to separate the two. Personally, I think this is a good option but it sometimes makes collaboration quite difficult. So we had to invest a lot in forums to talk to each other, to exchange evidence, etc. The UN protocol has served us a great deal for the battlefield evidence. Some of the evidence is very interesting, including all Islamic State files. But there's a problem. As soon as it's worked by an intelligence service, it becomes classified. So, if I get the file, I can use it in my folder, but I don't know where it came from, how it happened, how it was entered or otherwise. I don't know because I don't have that information and if I have to read it, it's classified. There are many discussions with the Americans and Europeans. We are making good progress in this area, but it takes time because other imperatives are playing. Some of the evidence used in files has led to convictions, but it takes a lot of time. The proposal I have made, as far as it is feasible, is to invest in the possibility of sending investigators on the spot. Under the current circumstances, it is complicated because investigators must be protected by military personnel. I have proposed to invest in this possibility because for me it is the basis. Whatever the decision of an international or national court, these cases must be assembled. We must be able to condemn people on the basis of evidence. We have given our point of view. The mechanisms exist. They represent progress in relation to the situation three, four years ago. Between three and four years ago, we made great progress, as we are speaking today. Last September I went to the United States for an exchange, in which I could explain our difficulties in the procedure. As you know, in connection with the case of the attacks, we have for the first time established a joint investigation team with the United States, which has given us enormous experience that we may still be able to use in the future. So we have learned lessons from the past and are making progress. The only thing I would like to say in relation to all the questions on the National Security Council is that it is the ministers who sit there, according to the law. We are invited to the National Security Council. We are there almost all the time but we are invited to give advice. The rest are political decisions. With my arrest warrants, if they are somewhere else and with countries with which we can conclude agreements, that is done. We've already had the case. For example, some time ago, someone from Sudan was extradited and considered too radical by the Sudanese themselves. I also stress that the Syrian situation is extremely complicated. I think that NGOs or others have been able to go, but from there to the point where a state manages to do so, it's still something else. I therefore acknowledge that this situation is very complicated. What I wanted to explain to you is that I have arrest warrants, that procedures exist and that things are going to be possible. My personal point of view as a magistrate is that if the message is to say that in our home, the sentences are too small, that in our home, they are going out of prison, that in our home, there is this or that, and that therefore, we will not recognize these rights because they are too dangerous for our system, then we fall into the theory of the unprivileged fighters of George Bush, with which he built Guantanamo. Once again, it is a political choice. I will be loyal, as Mr. Paul Van Tigchelt said, but we still have to be aware of that. Whether they are tried there or otherwise, Mr. Paul Van Tigchelt was right to say aut dedere aut judicare. That's exactly what it is. These people have been in the camps for a year and a half. It's not necessarily possible to bring them back. I didn't do this interview to launch a political controversy. It is not necessarily possible to bring them back, but I think that this debate is useful for everyone to be aware of the difficulty of the problem and the difficulties it poses for us too. I also think that this situation will raise questions in terms of radicalisation. I said that in my speech. Mohamed Abrini replied to the investigating judge who asked him why: "The images of Aleppo were seen with the little Sunnis who were being massacred by the Shiites and things like that, etc. I wanted to react. I wanted to go there." That's the first thing he said. Here we have people, grandparents, brothers, sisters, a whole series of people. It's not just over there. It's happening in our house, too. These people, in one way or another, are connected to the situation. The question is how they will react. That is what we must be able to ask ourselves. Finally, we talked about the Kurdish and Turkish situation. You know that we have a great judicial debate about the PKK. My Public Prosecutor's Office has pursued several PKK cases by calling it a terrorist organization. The difficulty I have is that the Liège Court of Appeal confirms to me that it is a terrorist group and the Brussels Court of Appeal tells me that it is not one! The procedure is pending before the Court of Cassation and we expect the Court of Cassation to express its views on this matter. Depending on the decision of the Court of Cassation in one direction or the other, Turkey or the Kurds will be happy or not happy. It's also a risk that Mr. Van Tigchelt will have to take into account in his threat assessment. The situation in this region is indeed very complicated. As Mrs Liekens said, the tragedy is first and foremost that region is once again hit by bombs in every direction. This is an incredible situation, with population movements projected and presented before assemblies such as the United Nations. I think that shockes us all. That is why I have agreed to come to this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u26	We thank you for your extensive replies and your presence here. I shall now give the last word to colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, certain speakers must leave at least at 5 p.m., so I would appreciate it if you could be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u27	Madam President, I would like to make one point for each of the three speakers. Lieutenant-General Van de Voorde mentioned a game changer with regard to the situation on the spot. In this respect, he replied to my question that we may need to change our interlocutors. That is a fact that we must look at politically, because it is an important statement. Mr Van Tigchelt was very cautious about the possibility of carrying out operations on the ground today to bring people back. I note that and I believe that this makes sense in view of the changed situation. Mr Van Leeuw has instructed us all to draw attention to the difference between the assistance procedure and the correct procedure and the possibilities that it would offer if we allowed some room in it. The committee has to take that message.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u28	Madam President, I thank the three speakers for their presentation and the details they have given us. As Mr. Van Tigchelt, we must now objectiveise the situation and talk about it pragmatically in order to put an end to slogans and political inaction. It's been months for the experts to sound the alarm in this country. The Egmont Institute, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the OCAM have long called for a reaction. Mr Van de Voorde, we find ourselves in a chaotic and catastrophic situation as you announce that you have lost the contacts on the spot necessary for the surveillance of Belgian terrorist fighters. I'd like to call two E.R.s. The first concerns the humanitarian aspect. It is important to remember that these children of two, three, four or five years of age have never decided to spend their time in Al-Hol camp. We must insist on the commitment made in 2017 by the federal government to repatriate all these minors. I will then address the security component. I read that this morning's National Security Council again referred to an international tribunal. I'd love to. In an ideal world, where time would not be counted in order to set up this court, I would also opt for this solution. However, who can still say – in the face of the Turkish military offensive in north-eastern Syria – that we have the time to set up such a tribunal? The figures show very clearly that the majority of combatants are now in north-eastern Syria and that some are settled in Iraq. How, then, can we still count on the latter country? Mr Van Leeuw, you recalled how summary the trials were and, in any case, did not meet the standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms that we defend in our democracy. The urgency is clear. Three women and two men escaped. I would like to see clarity on these figures. The little that is related to the meeting of the National Security Council, I read that there are 84 individuals who would be identified, but not located. I would therefore like more details. Mr. Van Tigchelt, you mentioned 55 men.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u29	The number 84 is also included in the note. Of course, the numbers are always dangerous to manipulate. As I said at the beginning, we have to treat them. In any case, the explanation is in the note and does not contain any numerical contradictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u30	Just to clarify, what is the difference between this number of 55 individuals and that of 84 that is also reported in the note?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u31	There are 84 Belgians in the camps in northern Syria. Not only the FTFs but also the children. The figure I gave is the 55 FTFs – about 20 men and 35 women – and 69 children in total. Some people do not have Belgian nationality and they are not all in camps in Syria. The explanation is in the note.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Tigchelt. I would just like to conclude by pointing out Mr. Van Leeuw, who tells us today that, in the face of the urgency – namely the great risk of having these terrorist fighters scattered in nature – it is important to be able to control these fighters. I accept the recommendation to have investigators on-site, possibly supervised, and therefore look forward to the political decisions taken by the federal government to deal with the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u33	I also thank you for the quality of the exchange this afternoon. I think there is a broad consensus: on children, we can say that we are on a humanitarian issue and we must be able to repatriate them. In this regard, and I think the data is not the mark, what is the number of orphans still present in the country. I heard earlier that six of them had already returned. Is there any more left for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u34	According to my information, no. The orphans were repatriated in June, but this does not rule out that the situation may have changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u35	On the situation of children, I think there is a near-total consensus that these combatants must be tried under conditions that respect fundamental rights, whether here or elsewhere. But one element remains, for me, without a clear answer: it is the question of proof. No matter where they are judged, how do we establish the facts, the evidence and, therefore, how do we judge the accused in relation to what he really did? This remains the most sensitive issue. Mr. Van Leeuw made an analogy that I don't think is relevant to Rwanda. He explained that, ten or fifteen years later, evidence or facts could be found that would allow people to be brought before a court of assizes. Except that the Rwandan genocidary acted at the local level, in a local context. The jihadist acts by definition in a global dispute. This changes everything as to the danger of both. It's not the same thing. A Rwandan genocidary on the streets of Brussels is not the same as a jihadist returning from Iraq or Syria. The analogy is not totally enlightening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u36	I totally understand. Analogues have their limits. Honestly, what shockes me sometimes from this debate is that people are afraid that if they return home, they will be victims. But if they escape there, they can make victims there too. Is an Iraqi victim worth more than a Belgian victim? We're really asking ourselves the question. If they don't return home, so much the better, but if they're still in this Islamist ideology, they'll also make victims there. If they join Al-Qaeda groups on the side of Idlib, they'll make victims there. I am in a position to carry out my mandate or not, although this decision contains some political decision, since we are outside the European Union and it is not the judges who make the mandates between them. I also have responsibility for the victims there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u37	That is why I wanted to stress the extreme complexity and the need to prioritize risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u38	The comparison is worth what it's worth. But they also claimed a lot of casualties there. We will only be able to investigate them when we have another experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u39	They're not just gonna take five years for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u40	In the MH17 crash file, we saw the Dutch experience. They've invested a lot of money to send investigators over there, into a conflict zone. They went there while the Russians and Ukrainians were shooting at each other and fighting. They did not have access to all the areas, but to some. We're four or five years later and there's going to be a trial, because they've invested in investigators. Mr President, I would like to take advantage of this because I see Mrs Kherbache. You asked me when we saw Tarik Jadaoun. I haven't seen it in person. A team of magistrates has gone there, a investigating judge, a magistrate and a team of detectives. I looked quickly: they went to Baghdad in September 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u41	Madam President, I am pleased to hear that the situation must be objective for all FTFs, for wives, for children by conducting a case-by-case analysis because, like Mr. As Van Tighelt said, each has an extremely different and variable profile depending on the situation. We must be aware of the fact that this is not a return to the nursery, but a return to the powder factory, and that this can have dramatic consequences, including for us. I am astonished by the position of Mr. Ben Achour, who said there was a consensus about children. As far as I am concerned, I have not heard that there is a consensus on this. I would therefore like to have a clarification on this matter. Mr Van Tigchelt, you spoke of the FTFs that had been reinserted and that some had been struck off the lists of the OCAM. But are they still under surveillance today? Mr Van Leeuw, I understand of course your analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of organising a trial in Belgium with our legal standards rather than elsewhere in Europe, Iraq, Syria or I do not know where. But what is your view on the suggestion I made earlier that we should strengthen our judicial cooperation with Iraq, which already exists?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the comprehensive answers. You have underlined that you speak here in all objectivity and serenity, so that there can be no misguided political play, because the issue is very serious, both on the security side and on the humanitarian side. As far as the humanitarian aspect is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the decision of the National Security Council of December 2017 has been operationalised on paper and that the texts for it have been drawn up in 2018, but that it still needs to be put into practice. As Mr Van Tigchelt said, it is not up to you but to the government to do so. After all, it is a political matter. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important that we note this. A government decision has been taken in the National Security Council, but these words still need to be translated into action. If not, the humanitarian problem will only get worse, while our country still had the levers in its hands to repatriate the children. Most of my questions were about the FTFs. To sum up, my opinion is that trial means monitoring and drawing up criminal records. Mr van de Voorde, on the subject of surveillance, you were very clear, but not reassuring. I should like to draw the right conclusion from your statement that we are now taking a wait-and-see attitude. In Syria we have no presence, but in Iraq, but the situation has become so complex that we have to follow evolution hour after hour. We do not have the surveillance of the Belgian FTFs in our hands. Can I sum it up like that? I hope that we will be able to clarify this very quickly. As far as the trial is concerned, I have put a very strong emphasis on the importance of criminal records. I would like to leave the confusion about an international tribunal or a tribunal in my own country. A trial can indeed be done on the spot or here. If the trial takes place on the spot, in Iraq, it will of course not be done according to our standards. Mr Van Leeuw referred to the cooperation between the Netherlands and Ukraine for comparison, and I do not wish to simplify it by identifying Ukraine with Iraq in the MH17 dossier. In that file, there was cooperation in the field of evidence collection, the collection of material. No international tribunal was set up, but the Netherlands did cooperate in a judicial capacity in a specific court in Ukraine to ensure that the trial took place there. If trial in the region can be carried out in a serious way, then you are not against it. Well, to realize that, that calls for decisions. Our country is involved because it is about Belgian FTFs. I find this awaiting attitude irresponsible, but that is a political position. You indicate that the FTFs have been in those prison camps for over a year and a half. It is therefore high time that we made every effort to bring them to justice in a serious way and to impose on those who have committed crimes the punishment they deserve effectively. If not, we will continue to discuss and exchange opinions all the time. The urgency did not arise on 6 October; the urgency has existed for months, both in the area of surveillance and in the area of the establishment of criminal records. As far as I'm concerned, it's five past twelve in that area. I hope, Mr Van Leeuw, that your call for urgent action by surveyors gathering evidence is taken seriously and that every effort is made to draw up firm criminal records so that we can bring the FTFs to justice. If not, we are talking next to the issue. It is our job in Parliament to ensure that the government takes these decisions effectively. That is why it was important for you to come here today and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u43	Thank you, gentlemen, for your answers and more specifically Messrs. Van Tigchelt and Van Leeuw for their first answer to my political question. I understand your loyalty to the government, which is indispensable. This is obviously a question that we must ask politicians. The challenge we face today is to have political leaders. For example, tomorrow in plenary there will be neither Mr Michel nor Mr Reynders nor Mr Reynders. From Croo. This does not facilitate Parliament's work on such fundamental issues. That's why I would insist. I also have specific questions, first of all for Lieutenant General Van de Voorde. With regard to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's threat of freeing the jihadists, do you have any indication of his capabilities, of movements that are taking place? You still have the ability to see the terrain from afar. Do you think this threat is credible? Is there any preparedness to respond to this type of threat? Moreover, with regard to its ability to mobilize outside Syria, through social networks, has there been any additional activity across the dark web? It would be interesting to have your opinion on this. I now turn to the three of you, gentlemen. I'd like to know if there's ever been any discussion about the attitude we'll take when the Syrians contact us if they get their hands on these camps. What will be our attitude towards the government of Bashar al-Assad when he eventually proposes a collaboration on this issue? We see the political weight this could have for the regime of Bashar al-Assad. I mean, I have one last thought. I know the victims of terrorist attacks are present. They're listening to us. We didn't talk about it very much. What they demand – they – is that justice be delivered quickly and effectively. They also demand that the truth be established. Beyond what we have talked about today, if we judge these people in a reasonable time with evidence, we will also know what their motivations, sources of funding, complicity, and we can better protect ourselves in the future from the risk of attacks. We must have a special word on this request for justice from the victims of the 22 March attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u44	I have a very brief factual question. I'm still confused about the numbers: 55 FTFs, 69 kids, that's not equal to 84.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u45	Those 84 are the women and children in the camps. In addition, there are men who are in prison elsewhere. This is about the camps. I should put the list of names next to it, but obviously I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u46	I was asked the same question about contacts with Syrians and Iraqis. As a matter of principle, all requests for letters rogatory to countries outside the European Union go through the Justice FPS and then through the Foreign Affairs FPS. In other words, political intervention is necessary. I'm not the one who negotiates directly with the Iraqis or the Syrians. I do so only when a rogatory commission has been accepted, as was the case with Iraq. We also took advantage of the French letters rogatory to obtain information. Since we have not concluded a treaty with Iraq, the steps must be taken on the basis of an ad hoc negotiation, which is the responsibility of the Ministries of Justice and Foreign Affairs. That is the system that is in place for the time being. To go further, there is a law of 2004 that clearly sets the stage for international cooperation. In particular, it prohibits any collaboration in the event of a risk of a death penalty being imposed. Moreover, the European Convention on Human Rights must also apply. The European Court has thus condemned certain collaborations and extraditions carried out in violation of the Convention. I will not give you the name of the person concerned. Regularly, and I take this opportunity to greet the victims, we are making a great deal of efforts to ensure that trials can begin within a reasonable time – provided we have sufficient evidence. We have victims in our territory, but also many Belgian victims who are abroad. That is why we are trying to move forward as quickly as possible with the proceedings going on abroad, or to obtain either copies of the files or information to support the victims. I am talking about it because before the holidays, I went to Tunisia following the attacks that were carried out there, in order to see what the procedures were. A conviction was handed down, following which an appeal was lodged. The main aim is to be able to discuss with local authorities. The subject of the death penalty remains very complicated. Indeed, the Tunisian authorities had appealed to demand the death penalty. That is why I have a legal problem when I go there: can I collaborate? These are the limits that Parliament has set, and these are the tools that it and other European courts have given me. I work in a framework that is decided by politics, in accordance with the separation of powers. So, with Iraq, the problem is the death penalty, even if it is not the only one. For example, in Tunisia, such a sanction has not been enforced for a long time. But I have to ask myself if I can continue my discussion with the local authorities. These are complicated issues that need to be addressed on a case-by-case basis. We are trying to be as pragmatic as possible in order to help our victims who have experienced an absolutely indescribable tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u47	There's no more time for new questions. I propose that Mr Van de Voorde give a small answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u48	As far as your first question is concerned, yes, the statements are dated 16 September. We have not seen any increase in activities on social networks. It didn't go away. We are obviously listening to and following all this, but there is no firm response to this statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic032x.u49	I would like to thank the speakers for their clear explanation, which makes it more complex than we all thought.
