ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u1	Question No 26141 by Mr Marco Van Hees, question No 26711 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and question No 28093 by Mr Raoul Hedebouw are transformed into written questions. Question No 26270 by Mr Stéphane Crusnière is over. Question No 26898 by Mr Frédéric Daerden was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u2	Mr Minister, this question dates from 3 July and is essentially about the mid-term review of the harmonization of the statutes of workers and servants on supplementary pensions. You know that at the time, because of the labour law unitary status of workers and servants, it was agreed with the social partners to harmonise supplementary pension schemes for workers and servants by 1 January 2025. This process must be gradual and a number of collective agreements must also be concluded. The main approach was not to introduce new systems which would be discriminatory, but to ensure that the approximation of arrangements for workers and servants can become a reality. A biennial evaluation was foreseen to measure progress in this process. According to a report by the National Labour Council, this is a complex exercise. To know this, there was no need for a report: everyone can imagine that this is not an easy matter, especially since changes are being made in the meantime. Progress has been made compared to 2016, but a number of sectors still do not appear to have submitted a reporting report. There are also recommendations from the National Labour Council to further address harmonisation. Minister, how many sectors have not yet fulfilled this obligation? Which sectors are concerned? Will you approach those sectors? In what way do you proceed? What interpretation problems are still present in the field? In what way will it be dealt with? Your policy cell would restart a working group with the social partners. Has that happened yet? My question dates back to July. In the meantime, I hope that some things have happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u3	In order to know the sectors which have not submitted a report, I invite you to Annex 2 of the report No. 110 of 26 June 2018 of the NAR consult: "Harmonisation of the Staff Regulations of Worker/Operator Supplementary Pensions "Article 14/4, § 2 of the WAP "Evaluation'. The NAR invited in its report No. 110 the FPS Employment and the Minister for Labour to address these lagging sectors. According to my information, on 2 August 2018, the General Executive Board for Collective Employment Relations of the FPS Employment would have provided a service note from the Chairs of the Joint Committees to urge the remaining sectors to consider the harmonisation of supplementary pensions before the next sectoral negotiations. On the questions of interpretation, I note that on 15 January 2019 I convened the working group that my cabinet had already organised. The social partners participated in the working group. The aim was to provide consulted answers to the questions. The list of questions should be drawn up and finalised in consultation with the social partners. At this stage, it seems difficult to indicate when the talks will end and how the result will be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a moving process that is not simple. I submitted my question on 3 July 2018. I propose them today, January 16, 2019. The working group was convened on 15 January 2019. So my question has been of some use, if only to encourage everyone to act effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u5	Minister, since this topic has already been discussed in your policy paper, part-time pension would allow workers who meet the conditions for early retirement to continue their activity at half-time by receiving half of their pension, but also half of their salary, thus continuing to contribute for their pension. A draft bill was adopted, according to the information available to me, on 5 October last in the Council of Ministers. However, it was "reduced" in November by the social partners, particularly because of the conditions of access, in view of which it appears that the majority of women would be de facto excluded from this system since they have on average only 37 to 38 years of career. Indeed, in order to qualify for this part-time pension, it takes 44 years of career for a departure at 60 years, 43 years of career at 61 years, 42 years of career at 63 years. I would like some clarification on this subject. First, what are your intentions regarding this text? My question is all the more relevant since this government is now a minority and manages day-to-day affairs. Do you intend to table the text in Parliament or to have it tabled, in the form of a proposal, by one or the other group in Parliament? Secondly, you have told us that there is still a need for concerted action on the practical modalities for the implementation of this project. Has this changed from the preliminary draft that you had adopted last October? In this context, can you tell us whether specific arrangements for women are planned, given the difference in career? How do you intend to reassure the social partners about their concerns? What do the government-appointed conciliators advocate on this topic? Have they dealt with issues other than penitibility when they met with the social partners? Did they discuss this topic together or not? At present, another system exists, i.e. end-of-career credit, at 60 years of age, with a half-time or a fifth time provided that unearned periods are assimilated for the calculation of the pension. You mentioned, when we had the opportunity to talk about it, that the two systems would coexist. What about periods treated as part-time pension? What happens when someone enters the part-time pension system and gets sick? Is this period of illness assimilated for the calculation of the other part of his pension or not? Is the system going on? This is not very clear in my mind about this case!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u6	Mr Minister, my question dates back to September, but I think that a number of parts of it remain equally topical in view of the proposal to introduce a part-time pension. You know that this has been registered in the law for a long time, but that it has never been operationalized, perhaps because it was not seen properly. That would happen to this legislature. You have always said that it is an additional option alongside several other end-of-life schemes and that it is certainly not the intention to reduce or abolish them and only to retain part-time pensions. We think that is very important. What is the state of social dialogue with regard to the government's draft and proposals on these various systems of part-time retirement? I believe that the proposal was worked out by the administration. Is he still involved in this? It has been proposed to refer to a 50% part-time pension. Insofar as these matters are discussed further in this legislature, is the possible revision of this percentage of 50% built in in the future? What's the cost of this? I assume that a cost calculation has been made in case people would take up this part-time pension. How can this part-time pension system be attractive to employees or public staff? We have workers in an end-of-life system which, as my colleague said, is linked to remuneration and which, on the other hand, includes equal treatment for pensions. The administration also has an attractive system of leave prior to retirement with waiting money of up to 80%. The question is therefore how this part-time pension will be made more attractive than those other systems. As part of the discussion of your policy paper, I have once again asked you how this part-time pension would be calculated for the self-employed. I would have liked to have heard your answer to that. Minister, as far as the attractiveness of part-time pensions is concerned, how will you explain to people what choice is best for them: part-time pensions or an end-of-life scheme? Will tools be made available via mypension.be with explanation and calculation methods? Will it also indicate that this is a part-time pension and therefore no longer be a pension for the period of retirement? Will it also be made clear what difference this will make compared to other systems?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that part-time pension is not – and will never – an obligation. This is an additional freedom that is created for the worker. You mustn't see anything else. This is a question of an additional possibility of end-of-career development. This is, in other words, an additional possibility to end-of-care credit and career interruption for the public sector. The worker is free to choose the device that best suits him. In order to choose the part-time pension, the employee must meet the age and career conditions for the early retirement. The objective of the part-time pension is therefore to encourage workers to continue working part-time rather than immediately taking up their full early retirement. If a worker decides to continue his part-time occupation, in combination with a part-time pension, instead of taking his full pension – that's what it is – this necessarily saves half of the amount of the pension during the part-time period of occupation. Thus, my administration has calculated that for employee and public sector schemes the economy could reach EUR 12.426 million in 2020, if only 10% of workers decided to take their partial pension instead of taking their full pension. It's not a pension savings. This is due to the fact that the person continues to work and therefore receives only half of his pension. As regards the budgetary impact of the implementation of the part-time pension in the self-employed scheme, I do not yet have the calculations. I think they have now been made by the Minister of Independents Denis Ducrame. I come to the impact of raising the age of access to time credit at the end of a career, for which the Minister of Employment is competent. But I repeat, we don't touch that. It has sometimes been said, as you have done, that access conditions are more difficult for part-time pensions. They are actually much easier to fill than they are for time credit. For the part-time pension, you have to be with the same employer for a year, while for the time credit, it's more. Access to part-time pension is also easier for the number of years than for time credit. This occurs on average at 62 or 63 years of age. The majority of the persons concerned are those who take their early pension at 63 years of age, under the new conditions. With regard to the situation of women, again, that was not correct. I don't understand where these numbers come from. Those are not the numbers I have. In the salaried sector, 32.9% of retired women took up their early retirement pension in 2017. The proportions are therefore very similar: 1/3 of women compared with 35% of men. In the case of civil servants, the reverse is true: 96.48 per cent of women took up their early pension in the civil service, compared with 93.9% of men. As a result, more women have taken their early pension than men. In theory, therefore, this concerns both women and men. There's no difference. These proportions of workers who may wish to benefit from the new scheme are therefore perfectly balanced between men and women. When a person opts for the part-time pension, he will indeed only build up pension rights for his part-time employment. In the case of an unchanged wage, it is indeed correct that his final pension amount will be lower than for a person who has taken up an end-of-life credit. In order to be able to properly assess the most advantageous option, account must also be taken of the difference in earnings during the part-time pension period or the end-of-career credit. In the case of part-time time credit, the monthly gross amount of the allowance paid by the ONEM is EUR 508. On average, this represents 330 euros net for a cohabitant and 421 euros net for an isolated. The taking of the part-time pension which will give entitlement to half of the pension constituted on the date of taking of courses of the part-time pension will therefore, in the vast majority of cases, be more interesting since after 42 years of career (this is the average of the conditions for the early pension and the most frequent duration), the salaried worker can benefit from a monthly gross retirement pension of up to €2,135. Overall, all the examples we have studied and we can tell you that in the end, it would take 30 years as a pensioner to make half-time pension less advantageous than time credit. Again, it's a freedom of choice. We receive a lot of mail for all kinds of reasons. It's normal when you're a pension minister. So we realized that there was a real demand for it. Indeed, many people have told us, throughout this legislature, that they were taking their early pension not because they were happy to stop completely but because they wanted to take care of their grandchildren or do something else, have more free time, etc. They also told us that if they had had the possibility of a half-time pension, they would have taken it. This aspect is important, I believe. During this period, this allows them to establish pension rights on half of their earnings beyond the 42 years they have already provided, unlimitedly since the career unit has been abolished. This possibility must also be mainstreamed. It can be for a long time. To the limit, they could constitute pension rights beyond 45 years of career while before that was not the case. This makes the option more interesting for those, even if it is not the majority of people, who feel capable and want to continue working part-time longer. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the new system will encourage a number of pensioners to continue their professional careers. They will therefore receive a pension higher than the pension available to them if they had taken up their full early retirement pension. In order to determine the situation which is most advantageous to him, the worker may apply to the Administration of Pensions. This will enable it to obtain the necessary estimates. To this end, a simulation tool will be integrated at mypension.be. As regards social dialogue, the texts were submitted to the usual social consultation bodies, both for the public sector and for the workers' system. The texts concerning the system of self-employed persons will also be submitted to the General Management Committee of the Self-employed. In view of the special nature of the scheme for self-employed persons, the control of the activity carried out in combination with the part-time pension cannot be carried out on the basis of a check on working time. An alternative control system on the basis of income has been developed by the Minister of Independents, taking in particular the average income of the last three years. Mr Daerden, as far as the conciliators are concerned, they did not address the issue in the context of their mission. With regard to periods treated as part-time pensions, we have in no way touched on this principle! The person who is on half-time pension keeps all his rights in terms of assimilation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u8	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that there can be a simulation tool because each case can be different. I also note that it is possible for those who have the capacity to go beyond 67 years into this part-time pension scheme. For similar periods, the scheme remains the same whether you are part-time or full-time working. If I understand correctly, when you are sick, you take your half-time pension at 63 years of age because you are in the criteria for an early pension. If, at the age of 64, one is ill for six months, one continues to receive half of his pension while in the sickness scheme and these six months continue to feed the "active half pension". Is that the system in question? In this case, the sickness benefit is treated as half-board, while the other half-board is retained. In other words, you don't lose her because you get sick. It was kind of my fear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u9	The person concerned then falls under the sickness and disability allowance scheme. During this period, his half-time pension is suspended. In short, he receives a full disability allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u10	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u11	Yes, that's right. We have wondered a lot about this problem, which is obviously very complicated. The person concerned must therefore choose. If she is ill, she is in the midst of a period of disability.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u12	Or he decides to take his total pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u13	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u14	But he's not in half a diet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u15	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u16	Is this not one of the elements criticized by the social partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u17	It's not a criticism, it's a question, but no one has a technical solution to do otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u18	Do you think this will come on Parliament's table by the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u19	You have to tell me! We are in a time when Parliament has all the powers. I would point out that the draft was approved by the government at first reading, in any case as far as the public sector is concerned. On the other hand, consultation in the Management Committee for employees and self-employed persons takes place before the approval of the party concerned. The timing was therefore different. Normally, all texts were to be included on the occasion of the second reading. This is one of the government's priorities that were raised in consultation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You know that the most important thing for us is that there is a choice, and that it does not reduce the existing end-of-life systems. If this legislation were to be implemented, people would have to know perfectly what they can do in the short or long term. So I'm very curious about the simulations you've made. This would show when this instrument is useful for employees and civil servants. This does not apply to the self-employed because they do not work there with the same periods of time as the other schemes. The cost of this is also important. You say it means saving money. We need to be able to follow this closely. I was also curious about the latest state of affairs within the government, but I understand that we are now moving to Parliament and the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u21	Minister, this question was taken over from the Book on Social Security of the Court of Auditors on 2018. In that book, the Court of Auditors refers to the problem of unfair payments of pensions to deceased beneficiaries abroad. It also proposes different systems to be able to carry out this monitoring more closely. The Court of Auditors requests that the life certificates which would involve specific risks be examined more closely, based on past problems. It also calls for the electronic exchange of social data and for payments to be made to external accounts only if the financial institution where the amounts are deposited undertakes to exercise some responsibility for the refund of undue payments. Did you work on those recommendations? To what extent has the Pension Service developed risk profiles? What is the timing of the expansion of electronic exchange? What further difficulties could there be? Then I have a question about the cost-benefit picture. How much can it cost to make things right? Will negotiations take place with financial institutions abroad in order to obtain security of reimbursement in the event of undue payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u22	Ms Becq, the analysis of (...) is part of the 2019 Federal Pension Service Action Plans. This analysis will allow the FPD to determine whether specific additional actions should be undertaken. The FPD continues its negotiations with the foreign pension institutions in order to exchange data on pensioners, such as death dates, marital status and amounts granted electronically. Initially, the project focused mainly on neighbouring countries Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and France. An extension of the project to allow electronic exchange with Italy was planned for the end of 2018. In the course of 2019, the project will then be extended to Spain. In order to extend the exchange to all countries with which Belgium has concluded a bilateral social security agreement, we are faced with technical difficulties in cross-checking the data. This is very complex, since the link has to be made between the data contained in the Belgian National Register and the identification systems used in the other countries. Such an operation will also depend on the cooperation of the countries concerned and will involve important financial investments. The total cost of the BEX programme, as it is currently conceived, is EUR 378 500. As regards payments abroad, payments in bank accounts of pensions in the schemes of employees and the self-employed are made by BNP Paribas Fortis. Undue payments shall be repaid in accordance with the best-fort agreement, which provides that GNP shall no longer repay undue payments, but shall receive only a bonus-malus, which shall be granted to it in order to reward its claims. A harmonisation of existing agreements between the different systems could also be envisaged. Such harmonisation could consist of the limitation to payments to financial institutions making the same commitments to the FPD in relation to the resolution and recovery of undue payments, which currently apply to accidents at work in favour of Fedris, the Federal Agency for Occupational Risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u23	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is particularly important that we continue to monitor these matters. I'm finding that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to take stock of the rest of the questions. Since Mr Franky Demon was absent, his question No 27074 was withdrawn. Catherine Fonck turns her questions Nos. 27155 and 27439 into written questions. Joined Questions Nos 27901 and 27915 by Messrs. Wouter De Vriendt and Peter Vanvelthoven are postponed. Our president, Mr. Vincent Van Quickenborne, will not be able to join us. His questions Nos. 28298, 28299 and 28300 were transformed into written questions. So there are only four of us asking questions. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put my two questions and propose that a colleague then replace me in the chair because I have a time constraint; I have to leave in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u25	Minister, the press informs us that the Council of State would be quite negative about the bill that has been passed on to it with respect to labour tenability. It would appear that you refused, despite the request of the president of the CNT, to transmit this opinion to the social partners. My question is from November 2018. Since then, there have been conciliators. We talked about it earlier and we'll come back to that in a minute. Do you confirm that this opinion is critical and in what way is it critical? Is it true that you refused to pass it on to the social partners? Can you give it to us so that we can analyse it seriously?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u26	Mr President, the opinion given by the Council of State on the bill to take account of penitentiality is an ordinary opinion to the extent that it asks the Minister of Pensions to provide certain justifications, as is the case every time. A response to the various comments was made by the Council of Ministers on 25 October 2018, which approved the bill at third reading. We will, of course, have the opportunity to consider the answers given when the bill is submitted to Parliament for approval. With regard to the general remark at the end of the opinion, which states that there would remain many questions relating to the conformity of the draft with the constitutional principle of equality - this is the case for all opinions - and that certain points of the regulation would be unclear or incomplete, I find it difficult to answer them. In fact, the Council of State does not specify what would be a problem. It is difficult to answer a remark without knowing what it is about. I would like to point out that the Council of State, before giving its opinion, examined the draft for two and a half months, which is far more than the legal deadline. During this long period, my cabinet has answered all the questions asked by the Council of State. At no time were the issues identified. The social partners have already expressed their views on the legal framework. It has been approved by two out of three trade unions in the public sector. The National Labour Council was asked to decide on a list of difficult functions for the private sector, not on the legal framework which had been the subject of the opinion of the Council of State. It is not the CNT's mission to come back to the legal framework. That's not what she was asked to do. There was therefore no need to transmit the opinion of the Council of State to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u27	Minister, thank you for these answers. They actually confirm the information received. Therefore, there was no transmission of this notice to the NTC. You have justified yourself, even though I feel that this does not encourage good agreement with the social partners, even though it would have been very simple to give them this opinion. I hear you are not going to let us know either, but you are going to wait until this is on Parliament's agenda. On the other hand, you are very much relativising the negative nature of the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u28	Mr Minister, we have just talked about the file on the heavy professions, which continues to drag on. I would like to remind you once again that, when the increase in the statutory retirement age to 67 years was pushed down the throat of Parliament, compensation was promised immediately, namely the completion of the heavy professions, in which people will not have to work for up to 67 years. The increase in the statutory retirement age to 67 years has been a long time, but the list of heavy-duty professions has still not been completed. I'm giving you a state of affairs that dates back to before the fall of the government. You then imposed 15 November on the social partners as a deadline for reaching an agreement on the implementation of heavy-duty professions. Because the differences of opinion between employers' and employees' organisations proved too great to reach an agreement, you and Minister Peeters appointed two mediators to save social dialogue. Mr Paul Soete and Mr Etienne De Callataÿ were given two weeks to prepare a report, which was presented on 4 December. We know that the two mediators have not managed to untangle the knot and find a compromise. In their report they do formulate some ideas that could be explored. So, Minister, the ball is once again in the government's camp, which is, however, currently in progress. I would have liked to have had an answer to the following questions. Could you explain more about Mr Soete's and Mr De Callataÿ's mediation efforts? What were the concrete objectives of the conciliation effort? Can Parliament have access to the report? How do we proceed with the file on the heavy-duty professions? Finally, will the SWT system and runways be maintained, pending an agreement, as proposed by the mediators?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u29	Mr Minister, I will not go back in detail on the issue of difficult jobs; I fully agree with my colleague in this area. My questions are therefore similar to his. Minister, what steps have you taken since you were in possession of this report? Have you taken steps to change the text, to reconnect with the social partners? Have you communicated the measures proposed by the conciliators to your partners or former government partners in order to find common ground and to have this project adopted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the failure of the discussions of the National Labour Council on the establishment of a list of difficult functions in the private sector, on 15 November the Government entrusted MM. Paul Soete and Etienne de Callataÿ, to meet the social partners in order to measure their differences and, if possible, their convergences, and to indicate the contours of a compromise. The retirement age has indeed been raised to 67 years but only in 2030. This is one of the reasons why I never wanted to rush the situation, reserving instead time for consultation, which I believe is essential. The Minister of Employment and I met with the conciliators, who submitted their report to us on Tuesday 4 December. A second meeting was held on Thursday, 6 December, to inform us of the reactions of the social partners to the report. Indeed, a follow-up took place between these dates through contacts with the social partners. The report confirms the differences between employers and trade unions regarding the list of criteria for heavy duties in the private sector. However, the report also confirms the common will of the social partners to work for the private sector on the basis of criteria and to continue the consultation on the definition of the criteria for heavy duties. Moreover, the social partners consider that the differences between pension schemes are such that they justify a separate approach. First of all, they are based on the existence of special schemes in the public sector – the tantèmes and the preferential schemes – whereas nothing like this exists in the private sector. Moreover, while it is possible in the public sector to work on the basis of functions, this is not the case in the private sector, where it seems preferable to rely on criteria – which, however, requires more time. Finally, the social partners agree that the adjustments made to the early retirement rules must take account of other early retirement schemes or of reductions in working hours. These findings have led the mediators to propose to continue the implementation of the reform in the public sector, but to postpone the definition of the criteria of the heavy functions in the private sector in order to allow social dialogue to continue in the form of tripartite consultations. Pending the outcome of this consultation, they propose that the age of access to end-of-career credit be maintained at the current level. The remarks concerning the penitibility bonus and the consideration of the past career relate to the legal framework which, I would remind you, was approved in Committee A by two out of three trade unions. This legal framework is the same for the three regions. The task entrusted to the National Labour Council was not, as I have already said, about the legal framework but rather about the establishment of a list of difficult jobs in the private sector. Finally, the report of the conciliators is of public order. There is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u31	Mr Minister, will the SWT and runways be maintained as long as there is no agreement? That was also a proposal from the mediators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u32	The conciliators' leads seem interesting to me but decisions are not yet taken. Indeed, we are in a somewhat special period. What is important today is to continue social dialogue in the private sector. I will not impose a list of trades and criteria in the private sector without continuing social dialogue. It seems clear to me that employers and workers are best placed to continue working on the definition and application of these criteria. We are, in my view, in a phase in which social consultation has not been completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u33	Minister, I have two more questions. You are talking about a tripartite dialogue. Are you saying that the government is the third party in this, or are they the mediators?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u34	It's about the government. The three parties are employers, trade unions and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u35	Minister, you refer in your reply to the agreement with the public sector. However, there is also considerable disagreement as to whether the list of functions drawn up belongs to the agreement or not. The then and also current government party Open Vld, together with the N-VA, which is no longer a party in the government, did not agree that this list belongs to the agreement. Do you think that list belongs to the agreement or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u36	Yes, but more important is the list of criteria of heavy functions for the public sector. There's a deal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u37	Right, but there is disagreement as to whether or not that list belongs to the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u38	That's a trade union proposal. In particular, the trade unions propose to add an annex to the agreement of the Committee A.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u39	Minister, you say that two of the three trade unions agree. Those two trade unions say that the list is an integral part of the agreement. If the government says that it is simply an annex, then the two trade unions will no longer agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u40	The government has always said that as long as there is no agreement for all sectors, there would be no final agreement on the lists. That's right. So there was no agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u41	There is therefore no agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u42	I have negotiated this with the social partners and have always committed myself to defending this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u43	We support you in this, as we support you in your intention to continue social dialogue. However, it will not be evident to reach an agreement, especially in the current situation. It remains a fact that the age limit of 67 years has been approved and that no agreement can be reached on the heavy professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u44	The pensionable age does not apply until 2030. Let me remind you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u45	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are now respectful of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u46	Not now!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u47	You will make sure that you wait for the time it takes for an agreement to be reached between the social partners. It is a pity that there was no such attention, the same respect at the time when the pension age rose to 67. It's a first element of reflection. Secondly, I understand that you are in a logic where we will not go into force without the approval, the accession of the social partners. I'm glad. I believe that we must come to the conclusion that the problem is in the fridge and that it will not go through this Parliament. You will have spent the 67 years but not the penitibility during this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u48	I have also made it very clear that it is quite possible to come to Parliament now with the legal framework. Now! I support this possibility and it is also the position of the conciliators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u49	Without the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u50	In any case, the list is not possible without a legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u51	It's not about coming with a cat in a bag and passing the legal framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u52	Personally, that's my thesis. I believe that the legal framework should be passed and that there should be further consultation on the definition of royal decrees. The legal framework can only apply if there are royal orders. The parliamentary debate on the legal framework can take place very well. There are no obstacles to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u53	Minister, one last question comes to mind. We still agree that there will be no deletion of the tantèmes until the functions are determined in terms of penitibility, and so until the royal decrees are issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u54	Right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u55	And this, even if the legal framework were to go through a proposal...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u56	Absolutely, since the legal framework provides for this concomitance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u57	Minister, thank you for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u58	Président: Stefaan Vercamer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u59	Mr Minister, I have raised several questions here about the pension costs of public hospitals, especially the statutory staff put at the disposal of private hospitals. The local elections are over. The administrative agreements shall be drawn up and calculated in full, including the multiannual budgets. Also in the run-up to the national elections, pension charges will come back on the agenda, both in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels and at the federal level. Therefore, a current and transparent overview of the pension problems of both public and private hospitals where statutory contributions are made available is absolutely necessary. After all, the hospital sector is still a federally funded sector where the available funds are distributed among all hospitals. Such an overview should allow us to see the need for additional resources. Is there an up-to-date overview of the pension costs of public and private hospitals, where statutory officials provided by local authorities work? It would be useful for us to know what amounts are involved in the coming years. I would have liked to have gotten that list. If this list is not available, when can we and the hospitals have such an overview? What procedure and timing do you provide for such an overview to be made and disseminated to the hospitals involved? That way we too will know the total picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u60	Mr President, in May 2018, the FPD made an updated estimate of the basic pension contribution and the resilience contribution, due by the administrations affiliated to the consolidated pension funds of the provincial and local governments for their statutory staff for the years 2017 to 2023. The FPD is therefore able to provide an estimate of the cost of the basic pension contribution and the contribution to the local public hospitals, OCMWs and public-law OCMW associations that make statutory staff available to a private hospital. The provincial and local authorities can obtain their pension data from the FPD. For this purpose, they should submit a specific application to the FPD. At the request of the Management Committee of Pensions of the statutory civil servants of the provincial and local authorities, the FPD is currently developing a consultation tool on the data relating to the pension contributions payable by the administrations through its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u61	That's very good. The data's here. My question is to make that data available to us, including the total amounts. Can I get those tables?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u62	For my part, I don't have it. Normally, they are held by the administrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u63	You can request them as a minister. How can we understand the amounts of the various hospitals and get the total amount? I'm asking you as a minister. You are responsible for this. My question is to provide Parliament with this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u64	I can ask the administration to pass them on to me, so I can communicate them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u65	So I can expect that data within a week?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u66	In a week? I don't know. We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u67	In two weeks, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u68	Minister, the 2017 activity report shows a major discrepancy between the number of people with a file on mypension.be and the number of people who actually visit the website. You will probably be able to give me the new figures in this respect. Anyway, we now have a tool, a system. But in what way will you ensure that accessibility is as high as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u69	Mrs Becq, on the basis of the current figures, we can say that since 6 December 2016 1 126 363 unique persons have visited mypension.be. Of these, 77 % had an effective supplementary pension. Sigedis believes that this is a good to very good result for a young website, but is also convinced that an even higher number of visitors is needed. For comparison, in the 2017 annual report of mypensionoverzicht.nl, the Dutch counterpart, we read that there were just under 3 148 000 visitors that year, of which 264 936 unique visitors. In 2017, we found that the majority of visitors to "My Supplementary Pension" did not go beyond the first screen or global level, with information about the total pension reserve. That level gives an idea at a glance of the state of the building. However, much more precise information, including the projection of rights, is at a lower level in accordance with the law, i.e. in the detail sheet per pension plan. Less than 45% of our users looked at the list of pension plans. Here visitors can find out for which job they built up a supplementary pension and with which insurer or pension fund these rights are. Barely 20 % opened the detail sheet per plan, with information on how much one will get at retirement. The low click-through ratio to the specific information appeared to be related to the way the navigation buttons were placed, and to the presence of an intermediate level, with the global reserves per professional status, before reaching the level of detail. Since September, we have adapted navigation to make it easier for a user to move from the general level to the level of detail. Since then, 55% of visitors have reached the list of pension plans. 30 % is now also looking at the detail sheets. We cannot check whether this corresponds to the needs of users or whether it indicates further possibilities for navigation. Following on from the answer to your second question, I can say that, as new functions and new pension products are on the way, the website will have to be adapted anyway. The opportunity will be used to examine whether the success rate can be further increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is particularly important that the information is simple and easily accessible. We always refer to it. I was a little surprised at the difference between the number of people who know it, 3.6 million, and the number of people who visit the site, 1.2 million. Only one in three apparently uses it. It is therefore important that we ensure easier access. For example, a common complaint is that certain PCs are not easily accessed on the website; there would be a problem with Apple among others. It is also important that information on supplementary pensions is accessible in a simpler way. I have to check, but I probably still have a sleeping supplementary pension somewhere. I never found that on mypension.be, while you replied that supplementary pension can be found on it. Maybe the levels weren't so easily accessible back then. I'll check it again. If the information on the subject is still not available, I will signal it. This is, after all, a point of attention, as there are a lot of sleeping supplementary pensions. I think it is important that the information about this should not be left behind; it should be accessible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u71	Mr Minister, my question concerns the interpretation of the Pension Act of 30 March 2018. This is again about local authorities and, in particular, hospitals. As I have just said, not all hospitals have contractual contracts, which means that they cannot assign a second pension pillar either. If there are no contractual arrangements, then it is not possible to assign a second pension pillar. The same applies to some private hospitals that are provided with statutory documents, for example by OCMWs. They'll have a legal hospital vehicle that doesn't have any contracts in it. These private hospitals then depend on the public partner's efforts. They are therefore faced with the highest pension bill. At the same time, they are punished most severely because, in the absence of contractual agreements, they cannot benefit from a reduction in the response contribution. You provide for a reduction if contractual persons have a second pension pillar, which is a good thing in itself, but one must of course be able to grant it. In addition, a social agreement has been concluded in the hospital sector, which must be respected, aiming at a second pillar for contractual contracts of 0.6% in the sector. This is still far from the 2 and 3 % needed to qualify for the reduction in the response contribution. You say that you can get a discount, but that you must have at least a second pension pillar of 2% or 3%. The social agreement only provides for 0.6%. They will never get there, and so they will never get that discount, which means that they will be punished even more. On 20 June you replied to me that you will not provide for an exception for those hospitals. You referred to the budget for the hospitals, which falls within the competence of Mrs De Block. I heard that the Federal Pension Service is working on an interpretation note relating to the Pension Act of 30 March 2018, hence the following questions. What interpretation problems and issues are addressed in the note? On which problems and issues does the note provide more interpretation? How are the social partners, in particular those of the hospital sector, involved in the preparation of the note? That is what happens best with knowledge of the facts. How is Minister De Block's cabinet involved in the drafting of the note, since it is a party involved? When will the note be ready? My question dates back to 19 November, so perhaps the note has already been finished and distributed. How will the note be distributed to local authorities and hospitals, so that they know where they stand?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u72	Mr Vercamer, in consultation with the Federal Pension Service, my cabinet has started to list the administrative application questions relating to the reduction in the response contribution. In accordance with what was indicated at the last meeting of the management committee of the provincial and local authorities, the examination of the questions is currently ongoing. I intend to publish the result in the form of FAQ on the website of the FPD before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u73	Minister, I wish that we understand each other well. Are you talking about a pact before the end of this legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u74	A FAQ.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u75	Okay, I misunderstood you. Are you referring to that note I'm talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u77	I understand that an interpretation note is being worked on. The FAQ you're talking about is the interpretation note?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u79	Good. I'm asking so we can understand each other and talk about the same thing. The dissolution of the Chamber is scheduled for about mid-April. So you will publish that note at the end of March?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u80	Before the end of the term of office, the result of that note.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u81	It is good to know that this note will be published at the end of March, because then we will know where we stand. What is this interpretation paper about? If you publish it at the end of March, I assume you already know what you will explain today. What will be explained?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u82	The list is being prepared. It is being set up with the administrations, which are responsible for contacting all actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u83	I'm just asking what that contact is about. What are the problems or issues involved? What matters should be clarified?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u84	I can't answer you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u85	However, that was just my question. You could have prepared that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u86	These are all the points you have addressed in your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u87	You're going to publish that at the end of March. Then today you know what you're going to publish in a month and a half? What subjects are you going to explain? That is a very simple question. You're not gonna start that a week before publication, are you? It's got to be known by now. You say that this is a matter for discussion on the ground. There is no doubt that people know what they are making contacts about. What issues are we working on? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u88	In particular, there are issues relating to the pensions of contract workers in public and private hospitals. This issue is on the table. As I said, it is not a budget that comes under pensions, but from the financial budget of these hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u89	I understand that, but I am only asking what topics will be dealt with in that interpretation? We should know whether there will be more information on the issues that people are facing. It is important that the people on the ground know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u90	No, we are at the stage of negotiation within the framework of an administration. The list is not yet finalized and I cannot communicate it to you today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u91	Then we will be asking questions about this again in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u92	Mr Minister, I would like to return to the subject of a question that I asked in June 2018. This was about the fact that a while ago we introduced into the legislation that supplementary pension should be included at the time of legal retirement. On the one hand, there is a tax problem there. People who retire early will be sanctioned and will have to pay more tax. On the other hand, there is also the problem of pension plans of the type of fixed benefits. The reserves acquired are calculated starting from the retirement age and falling, and they are calculated by applying an actualization factor. Apparently, this is a technical base of up to 6%. This update factor reflects the annual return assumed between the current moment and the moment of retirement. The actualisation factor to be applied is determined in the pension regulations and usually relates to that 6%. The logic of the legislative amendment in 2015 was that there should be no pension benefit for those people who retire early. However, transitional measures have been drawn up at the time, but the fact remains that this update factor has a financial impact on those who take up an early retirement pension and take into account that additional capital, even if they have proved 45 career years at the time of that early retirement, or have reached the maximum number of years in the career formula in accordance with the pension regulations, or will have a specific date on the basis of, for example, a heavy job. I already asked that question. You replied that this had nothing to do with the 2015 law, but that the solution would be the actualization rate of 6%, which is used in most pension regulations. This is not entirely true because the actualisation factor no longer corresponds to the annual returns achieved, but also because the link between retirement and the absorption of capital means that people either have no choice but to undergo that measure or postpone their date, which is not always possible. You said that there was a possibility of revising that rate of update, and you would at least submit it to the Commission for Supplementary Pensions. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Did you submit this to the Commission for Supplementary Pensions? What is the Commission's position on Supplementary Pensions with regard to the revision of the actualization rate? In what way will you continue to work on this? Will you try to neutralize the loss? After all, people were not meant to lose on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u93	The Supplementary Pensions Committee informed me, through its letter of 7 December 2018, that it was unanimous in its view that a review of the update rules used to calculate the acquired reserves in the current context is not appropriate, in particular due to the impact of such an adjustment on the short-term financing obligations of employers. A reduction in the rate of actualisation could further lead to pension plans of the type of fixed benefit becoming less attractive to employers. In order to provide an answer to the undesirable effects of the update rules, the Committee considers that it is in any case primordial to provide reliable information to the members in good time. If they were informed in good time about the repercussions of taking up the statutory pension on their supplementary pension, they would be able to decide with full knowledge whether or not to take up the pension early. The Committee suggests that each member is informed of the consequences of an early retirement on his supplementary pension within a reasonable period of time before he fulfils the conditions for submitting an application; (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u94	At the time he submits his statutory pension application to the Federal Pension Service; systematically via mypension.be, for example, by mentioning this when explaining the benefits acquired or estimated. As I indicated in an answer to a previous oral question, the necessary arrangements were already made to provide a disclaimer to that effect on the site mypension.be. To take into account the additional information suggestions of the committee, I will examine with the FPD, Sigedis and the FSMA what is possible to further improve this information. The Committee also believes that it is important for the member to be properly informed at the time of retirement. He needs to know what each option means with regard to the duties of his former employer with regard to his acquired rights. I will also examine with the FPD, Sigedis and the FSMA what is possible to follow up on this suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-16-54-commissie-ic1017x.u95	(...)
