ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u1	Colleagues, with a little delay we are starting the sitting. I welcome everyone to the Mobility Committee. Question No 55000474C by Mr Eric Thiébaut is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u2	Madam President, Minister, last summer journalists from the daily De Tijd were able to read an audit report written by two Swedish firms. This audit was carried out at the request of Infrabel. This report concludes that our railways are generally in good condition, but that Infrabel is not sufficiently funded to maintain our railway infrastructure. The deficit will reach EUR 1.38 billion by 2032. According to this independent audit, Infrabel would need an additional €82 million to maintain our railway infrastructure. And we're not talking about developing them here. The current underfunding forces Infrabel to leave in search of savings perhaps by discontinuing the operation of a few train lines. In concrete terms, Infrabel wishes to delete thirteen lines, twelve of which are in Wallonia and five in Charleroi. The municipalities of Vielsalm and Herzele and the city of Charleroi have all voted unanimously for the maintenance of their railway lines. The local population and industry depend heavily on these rail lines. The abolition of these 13 lines or their division by two will affect in practice 684 passenger trains and 103 freight trains per day. Mr Minister, are the figures we have read in the press correct, namely the underfunding of Infrabel to the tune of EUR 1.38 billion by 2032, which prevents it from maintaining our rail network as it stands? Without additional resources, the work for the second link with the port of Antwerp is on the harness. Can you still guarantee us the creation of this line today? If Infrabel does not have the necessary budgets, the planned electrification of the Ghent-Eeklo, De Pinte-Renaix and Melle-Gramont lines will not be possible. Will this work be well done? You have already announced that no train line could be closed. But how will Infrabel maintain these infrastructures if it does not have sufficient budgets? Is the safety of travellers not threatened? The independent auditors put forward a 52/48 allocation key that would appear to be fairer than the current 60/40 allocation. Would it not therefore be preferable to switch to a 52/48 allocation key? Finally, how will the working conditions within Infrabel change given the under-financing of this company?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u3	Dear colleague, there is no controversy because there is no will to close a line. This has always been made clear. I have already answered this kind of question in October and over the last five years, SNCB and Infrabel have received 13.7 billion euros in funding, plus the so-called virtuous billion of additional investment. This brings the amount of investment to more than 10 billion for the years 2014 to 2020. In order to be able to carry out the work corresponding to the additional billion, I wanted to involve the Regions in the process. We had several meetings and formalized a cooperation agreement, which came before the federal Parliament in February 2019 and was approved almost unanimously. Article 3 of the Agreement states that by 2031, until the end of its implementation period, no railway line may be closed. About ten years ago, the University of Lausanne had already been consulted by Infrabel and had said that to be able to maintain the Belgian railway network at level, it took 60 million euros a year. The expert notes that there is a need for means to maintain the network. This does not pose a problem knowing that the future government will define the annual allocations necessary both for the operation and for the implementation of the cooperation agreement that was validated in February 2019. There is therefore no controversy or contradiction. Infrabel indicated that the maintenance and maintenance of line capacity required an additional EUR 82 million. It will be up to the next government, the negotiators, to take into account each other's recommendations and requests on this issue of interviewing and maintaining capacity. We have done so in the past period. In March 2017, the government made clear to Infrabel and SNCB that the means made available had the counterpart that they should no longer put in an ART (temporary slowdown notice). For the future, account will have to be taken of the cooperation agreement and the conclusion of the studies commissioned by Infrabel. With respect to the 60-40 allocation key, it was first incorporated into an official text in the 2002-2003 Cooperation Agreement, when it came to agreeing on how to implement the RSP, for a period of 12 years. This 12-year period expired in 2014 and the government at the time reconfirmed the 60-40 key for the future. I have of course read the experts, according to which it would be better 52-48 or other rules. It will also be up to the Regions and the federal government to discuss this issue. It should be noted that the February cooperation agreement is also reviewing, not the 60-40 key, but the way it is applied and calculated. In the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the RER, it appeared that one of the causes, among others, of the slowdown in the work of the RER, was the application on an annual basis of Rule 60-40, because one year more work was being done in Flanders and work had to be slowed down in order for Wallonia to catch up, and vice versa. There was a game of communicating vases. Now, in the famous additional billion, the work included provides that the key has a multi-year basis for these exceptional investments. That's what I could tell you. This is one of the points that can be raised in the discussion on the constitution of the next government. But I understood well, at the end of the government that was in place in 2014, that it was difficult to review this rule, each Region arguing that it was unfavourable to them. The balance point therefore remained at 60-40.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u4	Minister, you are telling us that the 60-40 agreement was renewed in 2014, but you are not specifying the number of years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u5	A term has not been specified. It was said that this key 60-40 was being pursued through contacts that had been made by the Prime Minister and the then Minister of Mobility with the governments of the federated entities. A discussion took place but it was quickly completed, each of the regions arguing that the key was unfavourable to it. The experts started from the technical distribution. But, as you will understand, in a federal state, there is not only the technical aspect that counts. There is also the aspect of cooperation. Socio-political balances must be sought. That's why key 60-40 was confirmed. At the time, I was a member of parliament. You can find the discussions that were closed quite quickly at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u6	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Leysen's 55000673C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u8	Madam Chair, Minister, in the spring of 2019, an interprofessional agreement (IPA) was reached. In particular, it provided for an increase in salaries of 1.1% for the years 2019 and 2020, in addition to automatic indexing, baraemic increases and those related to seniority. The wage standard is therefore 1.1%. In all sectors, negotiations have taken place on the basis of this standard. Thus, in the distribution sector, workers will see their wages increase by 1.1 per cent in accordance with the wage standard. But this is not just about the private sector. Since 27 April 2015, the Law on Wage Standards has also applied to public economic enterprises referred to in Article 1, paragraph 4 of the Law of 21 March 1991 on the Reform of Certain Economic Public Enterprises of which SNCB and Infrabel are part. In these companies, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is being negotiated under the direction of HR Rail. The negotiations concern not only wages but also working conditions. Statements in the press showed that there was tension between trade unions and employers. Therefore, my questions are as follows. What is the status of social negotiations today? Will railway operators, i.e. SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail, also be able to benefit from the salary increase under the salary standard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u9	My colleague, HR Rail, informs me that negotiations on the future Memorandum of Social Agreement are actually under way. These include wages, working conditions, and well-being at work and social policy. According to HR Rail, it is planned to continue work in the coming weeks. As I am not at the negotiating table, I do not know what wage standard they are discussing, or what other rule they are discussing. This is indeed a prerogative of HR Rail in the context of the establishment of the new social agreement. However, I would hope that, around the table, all the actors are looking for a balanced solution that everyone wants. I would like to call for a social agreement to be reached in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u10	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u11	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to your answers to our colleague Roberto D'Amico, with whom I am taking the train from Charleroi to come to this beautiful Parliament. I am reassured to hear you say that there will be no closure of lines. On the other hand, I do not understand why a company under your control, Infrabel in this case, is broadcasting such information. I come from Charleroi, the largest city in Wallonia. And what does Infrabel propose? Of the fourteen lines covered, more than one third are located in the Charleroi region, and these would be deleted. And they're not the least! The 130C line connects Charleroi to Châtelet, which are the two largest cities in the district – 250,000 inhabitants. Line 140, which connects Charleroi to Fleurus, recently inaugurated by yourself, is to serve as a future link to Charleroi airport, as you announced at the end of 2017. Your company now announces that this line will be closed, and I find it hard to understand. Line 124, which connects Charleroi to Luttre, is used by commuters travelling daily to Brussels. And lines 130A Charleroi-Erquelinnes and 132 Charleroi-Couvin are the only links between the urban and rural parts of the region. We all know that we must do something about the climate, strengthen our public transport, and especially the train, to enable citizens to come to work, to go to school, etc. Here, your self-employed public enterprise is totally saying the opposite. We may wonder if anyone is thinking about mobility in the Charleroi region. If these five lines are deleted, many citizens, whether they are workers, pensioners or students, will either have to buy a car or find other ways of travelling. I'm not sure this will help mobility, or the planet. Minister, why does Infrabel choose to systematically go against you and his previous line ministers? My colleague Paul Magnette has experienced the same situation as you have in the past. Can you confirm that these lines will not be closed and that the fate of Fleurus station is always to become the point of access for Charleroi airport? What about the deadlines for implementation? At the end of June 2019, SNCB organised a consultation with users of the 130A Charleroi-Erquelinnes line. It shows that the timetables are not at all adapted, nor the number of trains and, above all, access to the docks is pointed out as a problem. Can we hope for progress in addressing these problems? What about the Châtelet train station where the hall has been closed for several years and whose state of disrepair is worrying?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u12	Madam President, Mr Bayet, far from me the desire to close lines, since at the end of the investment plan that I defended before the government, Belgium will have an additional 100 kilometres of rail. Today, unlike previous legislatures, four stations have been added over the past five years. Soon, there will be one more in Anderlecht. These facts reflect my will and that of the government to redeploy rail transport. If I take the Charleroi region, I must recall that we have taken important decisions, as evidenced by the project "AnGeLiC" (Anvers-Gand-Liège-Charleroi). Similarly, we have opted for an investment of 19 million euros in the Charleroi railway station to serve the interests of travellers. We launched the integrated ticket. These various measures benefit both the city and the rural area. Tomorrow, I will go to the construction site between Namur and Charleroi, where a road linking Mariembourg and Couvin is being completely renewed. This shows you that no region is forgotten. Of course, miracles don't happen in a day. As far as Infrabel's document is concerned, as soon as the government has indicated its willingness not to close any lines, Infrabel has requested a study from independent experts in order to set the necessary amounts for the maintenance and maintenance of capabilities. It was this working paper that was leaked. It is this document that allows the company to plan its work and develop its investment plan for the following period. That is the general framework in which we work. To put an end to rumours that are too often colported, coming from previous years, I invite you to hold off these 100 kilometres of additional tracks and the installation of five stations soon. I come to the work that concerns the service to Charleroi airport. It is noted that 20 to 25% of the people who fly to Brussels use the train, as seventy-six stations are connected directly to the airport. The aim is to do the same with Charleroi. To that end, we have sought several solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u13	In particular, there was the possibility of reopening a station in Ransart. The solution that has been chosen is from Fleurus station. With regard to the fate of this service to Charleroi airport via the Fleurus station, future developments of the offer on line 140, including the said service, are integrated into the studies carried out in the context of the preparation of the next transport plans to be implemented in December 2020. This was also explained during the SNCB roadshow held in Hainaut province on 28 June. These supply developments are linked to the work schedule of the Fleurus multimodal station and, of course, the TEC offer which will have to follow the same pace. Another fight will have to be conducted locally: it is the TEC. I'm not reassured, but it's no longer my responsibility. In the current state of the file, this is 2022 subject to obtaining the town planning permit. I leave it to everyone. I'm not here to solve business or local problems. I'm here to organize mobility. I pay attention to each one's share of responsibility when you come with new projects. Furthermore, I can assure you that the SNCB has no objective reason at present to reduce or a fortiori to delete the offer on line 140, only on the contrary! With regard to the studies on the supply of trains on line 131, SNCB takes into account and carefully analyses all comments and suggestions submitted to it. She will present the results of her studies in the spring of 2020 at the roadshows on her new transport plan 2020-2023. Finally, regarding your question about the Châtelet station built in 1911, the station has spaces that no longer correspond to today's railway operation. For the sake of efficiency, it was therefore decided to dedicate certain areas to the reception of SNCB customers. The other parts of the building are unfortunately unused. In 2011, SNCB installed a new window and a welcoming waiting room closer to the parking lot, and a security camera system was installed. The overall investment amounted to EUR 200 000. The second phase necessary for the maintenance of the building was the renewal of the roof and the marquise. This work was carried out in 2017 for an amount of almost 600,000 euros. The renewal of the station is only possible in connection with a global reflection on the district of the station, the aim being to make it more attractive with greater safety in view of the very annoying and disturbing ambient vandalism for managers. Many meetings have already been held with local officials, but they have not been able to identify short-term prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I welcome your political will to continue to defend rail and mobility. I hope that it will always be the same in the next government, whether or not the MR is in the majority. On the other hand, I am still dubious about those documents that come out, which are only technical documents. I didn't ask you how much this study cost. But we can wonder why we spent so much on an analysis that basically tells us that we can break half the mobility in Charleroi, and people will manage. It's still a little short! It's one thing to analyze the renovation costs. It would have been preferable to integrate this reflection into a global mobility plan. I think you should ask SNCB the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u15	Mr Minister, as you know, at a time when our fellow citizens are being called upon to make efforts in terms of mobility – in particular by promoting the use of rail transport – for the climate and the preservation of the environment, a new blow has recently fallen for rail in the province of Luxembourg. Indeed, SNCB's announcement to reduce the opening hours of six of our stations (Gouvy, Libramont, Marbehan, Marloie, Virton and Bertrix) as of August 5, 2019, once again rings the bells of our public service. On 2 October 2017, SNCB had already adapted the opening hours of 33 Belgian stations, thereby reducing the employment of staff and the presence at the station, thereby limiting access to heated waiting rooms or sanitary facilities, in some cases. Of the 26 stations in our province of Luxembourg, only seven of which still have a ticket office, six will therefore be forced to restrict their opening hours considerably, or even not to take on any more permanences on Sundays, even though the students have a lot to attend. Mr Minister, are jobs in the rail sector in the province of Luxembourg actually at risk? Should we be afraid of the full closure of windows or stations in the future? What about your moratorium on closures until 2020? What service for the citizen should be expected after 2020? Have you planned a humane way to guide and advise rail users at the station when delays, modifications or deletions of trains may occur? If it is bought, do you intend to generalise to Luxembourg stations the new concept of reception, information, advice and sales which the SNCB recently inaugurated at Namur station via its new generation windows? How will you do it? In what time frame? Finally, how does SNCB intend to attract new customers by reducing services to travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u16	Dear colleague, SNCB is not reducing its train offer or service to its customers. On the contrary, it continues to carry more and more passengers on its trains. Its offer was further increased by 5% when the last transport plan was implemented. Indeed, in 2017, we saw a 3.4% increase in travellers, in 2018 by 3.7% and since the beginning of the year, we have exceeded 4% despite adjustments to the windows. As it explained to the mayors concerned, SNCB insists that its decision to adapt the opening hours of certain counters was a rational decision because it is a fact that seven out of ten train tickets are purchased via digital channels and that in some stations the number of customers addressing the counter has become marginal. A station that was one of the first to reduce the opening of the windows is that of my municipality. We need to know how to make violence. I have the opportunity to spend a lot of time in the train station and I have never seen the slightest worry. On a Sunday afternoon, the ticket counter sold an average of two tickets at a station where several hundred people pass a day. The question is whether this is where staff should be kept. I repeat that these are not station closures or counters. It is a matter of adapting the timetables. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the moratorium on the closure of windows is still in place until 2020. After that, it will be up to the next government to decide, via the management contract. SNCB follows the purchasing habits of its customers and develops its service offering according to their choices. I come to your questions about the concept of a new generation window in Namur. The SNCB has inaugurated a new information and sales space that offers its customers open, modern, clear and didactic windows, with the aim of even better serving its customers. This new concept has been very well received by customers: feedback and feedback are very positive. This was a pilot project. It will have to be extended. These new windows are open and focus on personal and human contact, with a shift in the role of the windowkeeper towards that of a mobility guide. Staff will meet with travellers in this new space. They will receive tailor-made advice and information on their train journey. As a result, SNCB employees see their role of service to the customer strengthened. These new generation windows are in line with SNCB's desire to offer a friendly welcome at functional stations, starting first from the needs and expectations of travellers. Over the next few years, this new concept will be implemented in some 20 other major stations. Namur got the first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u17	Mr. Minister, I thank you for your clarification and for the details of your response. In my view, there is still a question that you have not answered. It is about access to these stations outside the opening hours for people who would not have digitalization in their culture or education. I am thinking in particular of the elderly. I would like to draw your attention to this point for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u18	Mr Minister, the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station has been the subject of several questions in this committee. Its renovation is therefore a project that dates back to 2004. If lucky, the project is scheduled to be there have already been some delays.... have finally been done in 2027. It will take 23 years. You know the history. In 2010 the first phase of the works was started, for tracks 8 to 12. That phase was completed in 2017. In 2015, the second phase, for tracks 7 to 1, would be launched with the aim of completing the entire project by 2020. However, the tender for that second stage proved too expensive, which resulted in a new public contract being issued and costly time being lost. SNCB intended to remove the cover of the first tracks, as a saving measure, but it was quite rightly protested by the city of Ghent. The mayor of Ghent informed the city council in September that SNCB is setting out a route with the ambition to come up with a new design for a full roof by the end of this year, which is in itself a good thing. The new plans are further optimized within the available budget, as it sounds to SNCB. The new application should be submitted next year. The deadline for full renovation is currently set, according to SNCB, in 2027. In March it was decided in Parliament to have the Court of Auditors start an audit on the Ghent-Sint-Pieters project. I have the following questions, Minister. You mentioned earlier in this committee that EUR 85 million had been budgeted for the first phase of the works, including equipment. In the meantime, can you provide a definitive cost for phase 1 of the works? Did they stay within the estimated budget? What was the cost of the initial offer for phase 2, which was rejected? What is the available budget for phase 2 of the works? Can you confirm that the target date for the renovation of Gent-Sint-Pieters remains 2027? Can you give a detailed timing of the different steps still to be taken for phase 2 of the project? When do you expect the results of the audit of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u19	Colleague, on budget and project costs, SNCB prefers not to communicate, given the research at the Court of Auditors, which is still under way. Once this investigation has been completed and the report has been forwarded to this committee, questions may be re-examined. Provided the permit is obtained in time, the intention remains to award the contract in 2020 so that the entrepreneur can start the works as soon as possible. The target date for the end of works at the station is at the end of 2027, subject to possible obstacles such as legal procedures and unforeseen circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for this brief answer. I fully understand that a number of elements which are the subject of an investigation by the Court of Auditors cannot yet be discussed. It is a good thing that you confirm the target date of 2027, albeit subject to reservation. That is, of course, far away in the future, and unforeseen circumstances can always occur, especially in this project, as the past has shown. So I'm not so comfortable with it. Minister, you have not answered my question as to whether you can give an indication when the Court of Auditors' report will be ready so that we can discuss it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u21	I don't know. I asked that question to my co-worker, but we don't have a date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u22	She can look up that information and then you can give that information to us later?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u23	You can request that information from the Chairman of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u24	Okay, we can ask that question through the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u25	I'll do it that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u26	Minister, gambling is becoming more and more a problem in our society. I am not going to go into that in more detail, because that is rather a discussion for another committee. However, the High Health Council has advised to take measures that reduce the attractiveness of gambling, for example banning advertising. In this respect, measures have already been taken, for example with the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018, which has since entered into force. That KB forbids gambling advertising during live sports matches and certain TV programs that target young people. However, this does not go far enough for our group. Meanwhile, certain gambling companies already go beyond what is legally imposed on them. For example, the sector organisation BAGO has decided to stop advertising on radio, TV and in printed media from 1 January 2020. That is, of course, a good thing. Minister, you are responsible for SNCB, which actually has a huge advertising platform with the signs drawn up in the 50 main stations. This means that 7.1 million commuters and consumers can be reached every week. Through the subsidiary Publifer these advertising panels are also effectively rented out. We read very specifically on the SNCB website that it sees this as an advertising tool that also reaches young people. I quote: 'The degree of memorization of these networks is unbeatable and, moreover, they reach very well young people, the active population and the higher classes'. The gambling companies also know that because we see gambling advertising hanging in the various train stations of SNCB. Fortunately, STIB has already set a good example. It has decided not to advertise anywhere for gambling companies, not on rolling stock or in its stations. The position of our group is that SNCB should follow that example. Minister, what is your position on banning gambling advertising in train stations? Will SNCB take action as a number of gambling companies already impose stricter rules than the current legal restrictions? Is SNCB prepared to set up a policy on socially responsible advertising and to create an ethical charter as STIB does? How much revenue does SNCB generate annually via gambling advertising? What is the share of advertising for gambling companies in the advertising revenue of train stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u27	Mr Vandenbroucke, SNCB informs me that Publifer follows the rules that are imposed on him. Each new application shall examine the product offered. In the case of gambling advertising, the legal terms such as "Play safe" and "21+" shall be inserted. I repeat that Publifer, who has a concession agreement until 31 December 2021, is a member of the Ethical Practices Jury on Advertising. By joining the JEP, the company declares its agreement to the JEP's statements and that the company will respect them. SNCB reiterates that it is indeed taking the necessary measures to monitor publicity campaigns. Some campaigns are only allowed after 18.00 hours. The messages that SNCB does not allow in its domain are political messages, advertising contrary to good morals, religious messages, products that are competitive against SNCB and campaigns that may damage the image of SNCB. Over the past few years, about a dozen campaigns have been refused each year, such as the campaign of a gambling company using a picture of a woman in a bikini and a transport platform that did not have a clear legal framework at the time of application. Finally, SNCB notes that the public advertising rules RMB and VAR continue to accept the gambling sector. Therefore, I see no reason to ban gambling advertising. If we want to ban gambling advertising, this ban must be looked at more widely than only in the case of SNCB. Since Publifer is a private limited liability company operating in a very competitive market, Publifer does not consider it appropriate to communicate its income. This information can be of great benefit to other players in the advertising market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I regret that you say that there is no reason to ban gambling advertising in train stations or, if this should be done, that this should be looked at more widely. I would like to point out that initiatives have already been taken. I refer to the royal decision on restricting gambling advertising on television and STIB, which in future refuses gambling advertising on its buses and trams and in the metro and bus stations. Take a look at the advice of the Supreme Health Council. Gambling advertising has a big impact and effectively seduces more and more people to gamble, which can lead to major problems, especially among young people. Since young people are among the most important customers of SNCB, I would like to call on you to reconsider your opinion on this, to inform you about the negative impact of gambling advertising and to accept your responsibility and ask SNCB to immediately stop accepting gambling advertising at the train stations, despite the fact that it can generate revenue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u29	Mr. Minister, on 18 September, my fellow cityman Kurt Vanhauwaert wrote an opinion paper in a Flemish newspaper explaining his experiences as a wheelchair user, especially as a train traveller. He complains that the wheelchair accessibility of the trains and stations in Belgium leaves much to be desired and the figures also agree with him. Only 132 of the 554 stations are accessible, which means that a wheelchair user can take the train with the assistance of SNCB. SNCB's target is to make 10 stations accessible every year, with which we will not reach half of accessible stations by 2030. I compare this with the ambition in the Netherlands, where 99% of all stations will be accessible by 2025. I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. What is the total cost, if ever calculated, of making all trains and stations in Belgium wheelchair accessible? How much funding will be allocated by SNCB for the next few years to make trains and stations accessible? Staff are available in manned stations to help wheelchair users in and out of the train. Mobile teams have been set up for unmanned stations. Can you give an overview of the number of VTEs within the mobile teams and the number of unmanned stations? Is it true that the new M7 trains ordered will not have a reduced floor, such as the Desiro machines, which will make it difficult for wheelchair users to get in and out, or will other solutions be provided for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u30	Minister, the accessibility of the stations is dramatic for people with disabilities. Only one in four stations is accessible to people with disabilities. Ten to fifteen stations are added each year, which will take another 40 years to make all stations accessible to all passengers. Most trains are not yet equipped to carry people with reduced mobility, let alone to give them the opportunity to use the train independently. In addition, reservations are required for people with reduced mobility. In 41 stations this can be done three hours in advance, in 132 stations it must be done 24 hours in advance, in the other stations it is not possible to get on a wheelchair at all. Public rail transport does not offer them any flexibility and if a train is cancelled, due to external problems or an error with SNCB, they usually have to wait a long time to be offered an alternative. I have a number of questions, Minister. Do you share the view that the train is not accessible enough for people with disabilities? What steps do you take to make stations and trains accessible to wheelchair users as quickly as possible? When do you expect these passengers to be able to use the train again without any problems? Which stations will be able to provide assistance by 2020? Do you think that we should provide people with reduced mobility with the necessary resources to enable them to take the train on their own? What concrete steps are you taking to achieve this? Is sufficient attention given to access for less mobile people in train purchasing policies? Will new trains, such as the Desiros, be equipped in such a way that people with reduced mobility can leave on their own without having to use assistance staff? How is the travel information on the accessibility of trains for wheelchair users regulated? Is it clear to wheelchair users where the seats and toilets for wheelchair users are?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u31	Minister, more and more people with disabilities are making their voices heard. The poignant testimony of Kurt Vanhauwaert and Dorien Meulenijzer in The Seventh Day unleashed much among the people. Thank you again for your reply, at the previous committee meeting, to my question on the accessibility of trains, but I have not been able to overcome my concern. In my previous question, I also referred to the booking periods, but you did not go into that matter further. Until now, passengers with reduced mobility must reserve their train ride. However, for people with disabilities it is not always possible to estimate when, for example, a meeting for their work will be done. Apparently, it is even more absurd in the case of delays, abolitions or missing a connection. It is only possible to get support in that particular train which was reserved, not in a train which happens to be faster than the one for which they were booked, not in the train after the cancelled train and not in a later train which is to be taken because one did not get a connection. In fact, SNCB thus tells the people with disabilities that they must draw their plan. I have the following questions for you. What measures are needed to abolish the obligation to reserve in large stations? How many passenger complaints did SNCB receive about the booking obligation? What is the nature of the complaints? What do you think of the absurd situation that people with reduced mobility cannot take a next train when their reserved train was cancelled or missed? Finally, what measures do you think that SNCB can take to address this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is strongly opposed to saying to its passengers with reduced mobility'make your plan'. In order to give you an idea of how its services work in practice, I invite you to read the answer I gave to the written question No. 3006 by Mr Van den Bergh. SNCB invites you to meet her B4U team. That received almost 50 000 requests for assistance in 2018. SNCB has sufficient staff to deal with these requests. It is therefore exceptional that no solutions are found. This means that the customer with reduced mobility will almost always be able to travel by train. With regard to the number of complaints received by SNCB in connection with the requirement for such travellers to reserve, the classification of SNCB's statistical data does not, unfortunately, allow such targeted data to be generated. Currently, about a third of the stations are equipped with high platforms. Only bringing all platforms to 75 centimeters presupposes investment costs of at least 640 million euro, of which about 50% are borne by SNCB and 50% by Infrabel. In addition, in many cases, the construction of ramps or lifts should be provided, so that the total cost of making all stations fully accessible would be more than EUR 1 billion. SNCB is currently working on a solution so that customers with reduced mobility can get more information about the layout of its trains. SNCB has invested an average of 124 million euros per year in its stations over the last three years, of which 24 million euros in renewing and making the platform infrastructure more accessible. SNCB intends to use additional resources to improve the full accessibility of the stations, with the objective of having fully accessible stations for at least 85% of passengers departing by 2030. This corresponds to 246 of the 554 stations available today. This means important additional investments to be negotiated under the new Multiannual Investment Plan 2020-2030. Each M7 gets a multifunctional carriage with sufficiently comfortable seats for wheelchair users and with an adapted toilet. The entry height of the M7 had to take into account three different platform heights in Belgium, 28, 55 and 75 centimeters. The multifunctional carriage will therefore have a lowered door with a height of 72 centimeters. The traveler will be able to open that door himself. In combination with a sloping plane in the carriage, this will reduce the height to 62 centimeters. This is a compromise between 55 and 75 centimeters, being the platform heights of more than half of all platforms. As regards wheelchair access of trains, I repeat that assistance for passengers in wheelchairs will remain necessary. In addition to the height difference, the horizontal opening between the platform and the train must be safely covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for pointing out what efforts have already been made and for stating that there is an ambition to do more, which is a good thing in itself. However, this is subject to the reservation of a successful negotiation of the multi-annual investment plan for SNCB. In recent years, we have seen how difficult it can be to draw up a long-term investment plan with sufficient ambition. The previous government has failed to do so. Let us hope that another government can do it. I can only appeal to continue unspoiled in making our stations and our train sets accessible. Public transport belongs to everyone, and we all pay taxes for it, including people with disabilities. Public transport must therefore be accessible to all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that there is an ambition to improve accessibility. In my opinion, this should be followed very briefly. As an example, I mention the Antwerp-Berchem station, which is currently not accessible to wheelchair users, who are therefore obliged to travel to the Antwerp-Central station, where the switching time is shorter and so wheelchair users very often miss their connection and have to wait a long time. The fact that a station such as Antwerp-Berchem is still not wheelchair accessible is actually unacceptable. We need to work on that. Forty years of waiting is unacceptable. People with disabilities should also be able to use our public transport without obstacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u35	Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply, but I keep wondering why we are making it so difficult for people with disabilities. Often people with disabilities cannot use the nearest station, as only one in four stations is accessible to wheelchair users. In addition, people with disabilities often need to know which train they want to take 24 hours in advance. If they miss that train due to a delay or other problem, they are stuck, as the reservation applies to that particular train, but not to a later train. In 2019, can't a society treat its citizens that way? That is why the Green Group calls on the next government to invest more quickly in making trains and stations accessible to people with disabilities. I understand that a reservation is needed at the moment; you told us that there are 50,000 such requests. I propose to remove the absurdities by ensuring that a requested reservation applies to a train journey and not to a particular train.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u36	Mr.President, Mr.Minister, we are reminded that on Monday, September 2, 2019, two former out-of-service motorists caught fire at around 7:30 p.m. on a garage track at the Schaerbeek Formation station. If the train was no longer powered by current and was to be destroyed, fears remain about the possible presence of asbestos and chromium 6. On Thursday, 5 September, an extraordinary meeting of the Prevention and Protection Committee (CPPT) was held, at the request of workers' representatives. It was essential to ensure that no harmful substances were present, given the impact that the inhalation of asbestos and chromium could have on the health of workers. On Wednesday, 11 September, as a result of the continuing lack of clarity as to whether or not asbestos is present, the workers' representatives sent a letter to the Chair of the CPPT, setting out the various points that remain unanswered and extremely worrying. To date, no response has been received to this letter and the absence of asbestos has not yet been proven. This is, to say the least, distressing and worrying for the health of SNCB workers. Therefore, Minister, let me ask you the following questions. Have you been informed of a possible presence of asbestos and chromium 6 in the cars that burned in Schaerbeek on the evening of 2 September? Does your firm know about the asbestos inventory of this old motor? If so, could it communicate the content? What is the status of SNCB's monitoring of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is carrying out a preventive monitoring programme concerning the presence of asbestos on board its rolling stock. It has asbestos inventories and regularly carries out preventive checks on the possible presence of fibres in the air. So far, the reports of the analyses performed have not shown the presence of released fibres. With regard to the safety of its staff working in the workshop on these trains, whenever hazardous work is involved, all necessary protective measures shall be taken, including the wearing of masks and specialized clothing and the use of vacuum cleaners with absolute filters to ensure safe work and avoid dispersal. With regard specifically to the Schaerbeek workshop, it does have an inventory and an asbestos building management programme. These are managed locally by the workshop. With regard to the fire of two motor vehicles, both the SNCB and the rescue services carried out or ordered measurements to detect the presence of asbestos fibres released during the disaster. The first known results of September 9, 2019 demonstrated the absence of these fibres. It is important to note that during and after the disaster no SNCB personnel or third parties were exposed to the risk of asbestos on site.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answers and the clarifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u39	Mr President, Minister, at the moment, at the Diest station, there is a car park of the SNCB for 600 vehicles, while in practice, on peak days, 1,400 cars are being searched for a place in the area. Six hundred parking spaces are therefore not enough if 1,400 cars are needed. The result is that motorists park where possible. Sometimes that's illegal, but it's allowed by the city of Diest. Sometimes, however, this is in places where it is not always safe. SNCB has decided to make parking in its parking lot paying as of January 2020. The city of Diest now fears that even more drivers will unauthorized parking. There's good news, too. At the end of last year an agreement was reached between SNCB, De Lijn, the province of Flemish Brabant, the Agency for Roads and Traffic and the city of Diest for the construction of a new above ground parking garage that would accommodate 1,260 vehicles. Firstly, what is the state of play with regard to the construction of the new parking garage on time schedule, budgets, plans and permits? Secondly, as regards the capacity of the building. There is now a need for 1,400 parking spaces on peak days. Building a garage for 1,260 cars is a step in the right direction, but it will still be too little. Can the plans be adapted, if necessary, to increase capacity? Finally, the city of Diest is not really happy with the plans to make parking paying. Will SNCB possibly reconsider this and engage with the city of Diest in order to revise the plans for paid parking if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB would be planning to make parking for the Diest station in autumn 2020. According to SNCB, they are currently looking, together with the city of Diest, for a correct financial allocation. SNCB aims to offer a guaranteed parking space to subscribers through the installation of an access control system. According to SNCB, free parking quickly creates a shortage of available places for our travellers. SNCB will also provide a new bicycle storage facility with 600 seats, to convince more travellers of a modal shift. SNCB wants to make the bicycle parking accessible to the MOBIB card and to distinguish between rail passengers and non-train passengers in the rates. The 900-place car park project is not included in the 2018-2022 multi-annual investment plan, which has been approved by the current government until 2020. The commitment of the investment funds for the period after 2020 will be an important task for the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am glad to hear that there are conversations with the city of Diest about the system of paying parking. You are talking about 900 places, but these are not the 1,260 places I was informed about. The capacity is therefore declining. For the construction of the parking building there is therefore no guarantee yet. This will be for the next policy team. Therefore, no timing can yet be communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u42	Mr President, Mr Minister, there is no railway (truck and driver transport) in Belgium. Considered on a European scale, this service remains marginal and is mainly used in cases where the road is difficult to navigate, for example to cross major natural obstacles. However, the fourth railway line was inaugurated on 6 November 2018, in France, in Calais – a line of 1,100 km. The French government intends to relaunch this mode of freight transport in order to reduce its CO2 emissions. Minister, the urgent need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions invites us to propose alternatives to road transport. Have you ever thought about setting up a rail service on the Belgian rail? If so, what investments and what budget would it require? Are you aware of a cross-border or European project on this subject? Is it, in your opinion, a future solution for the transport of goods?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u43	My colleague, the concept of railway, or rolling road, is based on the transport of complete trucks, i.e. the tractor, with or without its driver, and its semi-trailer, by rail. Existing routes cross the Alps in Switzerland and Austria, or travel long distances such as crossing from north to south of France. These models are heavily subsidized and respond to a particular need. Transalpine ferries are thus strongly linked to the constraints imposed on truck traffic. While rail transport appears to be attractive at first glance in the context of a modal shift policy, the economic model linked to this type of transport should be taken into account. Ferruting has no economic relevance over short distances. The driver is expected to take a break during the rail journey, which requires several hours of transfer. Infrastructure and operating costs are very high. Terminals shall be designed to transfer semi-trailers horizontally to special wagons. The investment required to equip a terminal grid in Belgium has not been quantified but would remain very expensive in the light of foreign examples. The demand for freight transport in Belgium is mainly short-distance and consists mainly of containerized intermodal transport volumes, thanks to the attractiveness of Belgian seaports. My administration is not aware of a position of the UPTF on this issue. The choice of most transport operators in Europe goes to the container rather than to the ferry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. I know that in Belgium the distances are short, but we must nevertheless make every effort to ensure that all freight transport which has to cross our country to go elsewhere can benefit from such a service. I know this is expensive, but we need to do everything we can to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. As the climate is one of our priorities, we cannot stay away from such developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u45	Minister, the Flemish Region has for a few years been planning to upgrade the Dender to 1,350 tonnes for inland waterway traffic. A bottleneck is the bridge on railway 53 between Dendermonde and Schellebelle, which limits the Dender's navigation window both in height and width. However, these Flemish future plans can be interesting for Infrabel, because in the immediate vicinity is the ground-ground railway crossing 63 of the same railway line with the N406, the Oudegemsebaan. This route is particularly busy because it is used by transit traffic, by heavy traffic from the nearby industrial zone and by SNCB passengers who can only change platforms along this route. In addition, there will soon be a ground-floor crossing with a new bike highway, which is under construction. Therefore, the safety risk mismatches are significant here. Infrabel has been planning to abolish all ground-floor considerations for several years. Therefore, it may be interesting to work together with the Flemish Waterweg for the construction of a new bridge for upgrading the Dender and at the same time to tackle the entire construction in the neighborhood. In what way does Infrabel want to make them unevenly grounded? What are the ideas or what is on the table in that context? Has Infrabel already had contact with the Flemish Waterweg about a possible adaptation of that Denderbrug? What are you and Infrabel's plans as custody minister? Are you willing to consider the construction of an elevated railway and connecting Denderbrug as an option for future investment plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to Infrabel, it is appropriate to study the removal of road 63 in conjunction with the increase in the rail bridge over the Dender. Due to the high altitude difference a tube could be built at the current crossing, with limited drive-in slopes for road traffic. In this way too far-reaching changes in the urban fabric of Oudegem could be avoided. Infrabel knows of a study of the Flemish Waterway in which a higher tonnage and height of passage is sought. However, until now there has been no formal contact. Several parties are eligible to include a commitment. In this way there could be shared investment costs, including the Roads and Traffic Agency and Waterways and the Sea Canal. Infrabel lets me know that he is willing to participate in a feasibility study on this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that Infrabel is willing to take part in the debate on this piste and sit down with the partners around the table. I hope that this consultation can start in the near future, because it is always long-term projects for which it is useful to sit together in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u48	Mr President, Minister, following an accident on the E40 a while ago, confusion arose about the road code: in the event of accidents where the motorway is blocked, the road code prescribes that the wagons on the left lane should move to the left and those on the middle lane to the right, in order to create an emergency compartment. That seems logical to everyone, but the strange thing about the situation is that only police and customs can go through traffic jams in this way, to the great annoyance of the Association of Flemish Firefighters. Minister, you told the press that you understand the annoyance of the firefighters, which pleases us, and you stressed that you clarified the bizarre situation in the revision of the road code. I believe so, but I find it odd that you say that the whole dossier was postponed because the regions did not agree to some adjustments. That seems rather vague to me, hence some specific questions. Which regions did not agree to what adjustments? That seems very important to me at this stage. Given that the dossier has been postponed, I would like to ask how the development of this dossier is currently taking place and whether there is any idea of when this absurd situation will be cleared up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u49	Mr President, Minister, on 26 September, the members of the committee received a letter from the Association of Flemish Firefighters, calling for a legal basis to be created for a rescue strip through which emergency services can operate during a traffic congestion intervention. At present, such a rescue strip or its formation does not yet exist in our country and road users are only expected to provide emergency services when they arrive with sirens and lights, which sometimes leads to delays and dangerous situations. In addition, the letter also cites the example of a recent collision with a firefighter vehicle, colleague De Spiegeleer has just referred to it between the two extreme left lanes, in which the firefighter vehicle was held liable. The FVO therefore asks for Article 59.12 of the Road Code, according to which the provisions of Article 7.1.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... However, the revised version of 19 October 2017 of circular 16/2006 of the College of Attorneys-General in the courts of appeal states that Article 59.12 refers to "the use of all priority vehicles, such as ambulances, fire trucks or civilian cars and other police vehicles'. In other words, the letter from the College of Attorneys General seems to confirm what the FVO is asking for today. First of all, Minister, are you aware of existing foreign examples in which the creation of a safety strip in traffic jams is required by law, as in Germany and Austria? Are you in favour of introducing this system in Belgium? Secondly, why was the driver of a fire truck held liable for a hit during an intervention, despite the aforementioned letter? Finally, in a response, you said that you had cleared the situation when the road code was revised, but that, because the regions did not accept some adjustments, the whole file was postponed. Can you explain how and with what measures you intend to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u50	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, the success or failure of a project is always a shared responsibility. However, it is no secret that a different view of the division of powers resulting from the sixth state reform between the Regions and the federal government has not made matters easier. I am aware of the existence of, among other things, the Rettungsgasse in Germany. As has been pointed out several times on almost identical parliamentary questions, I repeat that the working group which has prepared a revision of the traffic regulations has proposed a similar system. Liability arising from an accident shall be determined on the basis of the actual circumstances in which the accident occurred. Why in the case to which you refer the driver of a fire truck was held liable, I do not know. It's up to the judge to judge that. However, the fact that the final revision of the road code did not take place does not mean that priority vehicles with an urgent mission should not be allowed to drive between lanes. Other road users must provide access to priority vehicles at all times. However, the other road users are not obliged to comply with the principle of creating an emergency compartment, as included in the draft for a revision of the road code. There is currently no distinction, for example, between firefighters carrying out a priority mission and police or customs vehicles. The reason for the misunderstanding is a wrong reference in the traffic regulations, which is due to its many changes. That is precisely one of the reasons for revising the traffic regulations, namely to eliminate the inconsistencies that have crept in over the years and through countless changes. It's still a very valuable project for me. I therefore hope that the future Federal Minister for Mobility, together with the relevant regional ministers, will see that as well. Provided that there is goodwill from everyone, the project can still be a success story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the hard answer, but in fact you only repeat the concerns that we all share. However, you do not really give an answer or at least no encouraging answer to the question about the future or resolving the dossier. You are wiping out the umbrella of state reform and shared responsibility. You even point to the judiciary. However, that is the umbrella flight. That's disappointing. As police and customs can do so well, I do not understand why fire and civil protection cannot do so. My question as to which regions did not agree with what adjustments was not answered. However, that question must form the basis of a constructive discussion in the future, to which you yourself refer and to which you yourself hope. I therefore did not hear which regions did not accept or contested the amendments. So it's probably gonna be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If I have understood you correctly, in theory, fire trucks can also drive between cars on an urgent mission and in the event of congestion. I also understand that, as stated in a 2017 circular from the College of Attorneys General, the article that removes the provision that every road user must comply with the provisions of the road code also effectively refers to the fire brigade. I have also heard you say that you yourself do not understand or do not know why, in the intervention in question, a firefighter is held responsible for an accident, although he had to carry out an urgent task. The main problem you are trying to solve is a number of proposals for revision of the road code. It is true that the road code has become an impenetrable forest, so that no one can see the trees and some provisions contradict other provisions. That is a problem we must solve. We in our group will certainly table a proposal in Parliament to provide a solution. We will be inspired, as you seem to have done for your proposal, by the practice in Austria and Germany in which congestion creates a lifeline to allow priority vehicles to pass easily.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u53	Mr President, Minister, last June, during the legeois stage of its roadshow, the SNCB announced that the application for a licence for the construction of the new Saint-Lambert station was about to be introduced. Minister, what is the status of this issue? What is the status of the process? Has an application for a permit been filed to date? I would also like to know whether there is any consultation with local authorities on this issue. He also takes the opportunity to draw your attention to the catastrophic state of the Saint-Lambert train station, which is the gateway to the city centre of Liège and attracts more than 3,000 visitors a day. Currently, the escalators are permanently out of service and it rains in the stairs due to the lack of waterproofing of the roof. It can't last any longer! Even if a new train station should come into being in a more or less distant future, rapid renovations must be possible for everyone's comfort.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u54	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, the SNCB informs me that the application for a licence for the development of the wharfs was submitted for implementation in 2020, i.e. that the work will be carried out mainly during the spring and summer holidays 2020. These amenities include covered access to the docks from the courthouse bridge and the Cadran car park. The wharfs will also be covered and brought into line with the PMR TSI, i.e. the technical interoperability specifications for accessibility for persons with reduced mobility. Within this framework, the current awnings will be dismantled during the spring 2020 holidays and provisional coverage will be installed from mid-April to early July 2020. The installation of new awnings on all docks, the subject of the October 14, 2019 licence application, is expected to occur during the summer holidays of 2020. A consultation with the local authorities is under way with regard to the development of the new railway station and the Cadran car park. A specific licence application will be submitted in 2020 for the new station in 2021. To deal with the problem of water leaks and repair the roof above the docks, specific track cuts are required. They will be planned with Infrabel in compliance with ongoing maintenance sites and to reduce nuisances on rail traffic. The escalators are out of service because of the old age. No repair is possible. They'll be dismantled this winter. The new station project provides full accessibility for SNCB customers, i.e. each of the two docks will be equipped with an elevator, an escalator and two stairs. A two-wheeled car park will allow customers to leave their bike there. I hope that, when the work is completed, everything will be in order in terms of accessibility for all users.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. I did not understand what would be done exactly before the new station and what would be done more quickly. I am pleased that a permit will soon be introduced, but it is essential that consultation be organised between local authorities and the public. This was, moreover, the subject of a question to which I did not receive an answer. This station is important to citizens. It can play a role in terms of attractiveness and in the development of a neighbourhood. It is therefore important to ensure that it is best suited to the needs and desires of travellers who frequent it on a daily basis. There is also a need for consultation with local and regional authorities, as the issue of rail mobility in urban areas, in particular, cannot be addressed on its own. All these elements are fundamental. I will come back to you to ask you more specific questions about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u56	However, Minister, after years of significant decline in the number of road deaths on our roads, from 386 in 2010 to 241 in 2018, there was another marked increase in the first few months of this year. That's what Vias' safety barometer shows. In particular, the share of weak road users, especially cyclists, is remarkably high. Pending the seventh States-General of Road Safety to be organised in 2020, you were right to note at the plenary session of 3 October that the problem is not a lack of regulation but rather a lack of enforcement. Crucial to this is the chance of getting caught which must be sufficiently high. Minister, I have two specific questions. Firstly, increasing the chances of catching up on the roads is obviously a shared responsibility. Will you have discussions on this with your colleagues in the Interior and Justice Department? Secondly, an important measure to increase the chances of being caught is undoubtedly the start-up of the Mercurius database for driving licences. What's the status? When will this database finally be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u57	Minister, according to the figures of the last road safety barometer, there have been significantly more deaths on Belgian roads in the first six months of 2019 than in the same period last year. It is also apparent that trucks are increasingly involved in these accidents, as well as cyclists. How do you interpret these figures? What are the reasons for this dramatic development? What are the offences found? Why are trucks more often involved in accidents? What does the federal government intend to do in response to these results? Do they, in your opinion, call for an amendment to the Road Traffic Code?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u58	Colleagues, the results of the last barometer are indeed unwelcome, since, after seven years of consecutive decline, i.e. -33% between 2012 and 2018, the number of killed is up by 27% in Belgium in the first half of the year. As a reminder, the objective of the barometer is to follow the major trends in accidentology, without having to wait for official annual statistics. Further analysis is then required to determine whether these trends persist and to give the reasons for them. Both for accidents with a truck and for those with a cyclist, a detailed analysis of the circumstances of these accidents will be necessary to determine the cause and take concrete action. For the moment, it is too early to make precise explanations. The increase in the number of cyclists, the increase in the number of electric bicycles and the fact that some users are increasingly distracted, including by bicycles – due to the wearing of earpieces, GSM – and scooters, can constitute tracks, but to be able to determine it with certainty, a more in-depth study is indispensable. However, we must not remain crossed arms. I and my services attach great importance to good cooperation with all stakeholders. That is why my services devote a great deal of energy to common objectives. The implementation of the new procedure of immediate collection, registration plate liability and/or determination of the payment order procedure are just a few examples of measures to combat road safety. This cooperation will continue in the future. My services, including the Justice and Police services, wish to develop a new system of recidivism, to study alternative sanctions and to facilitate the use of new technologies to detect certain offences such as the use of the mobile behind the wheel. The crossroads bank of driving licences has been operational since 2017. For me, this project is closed. However, there are still contacts between the FPS Mobility and Transport, and the FPS Justice to optimize data exchange. To clarify, Mercury is the database with the data on driving licences. MACH is the data system of the FPS Justice that stores, among other things, the data of a decay in the right to send. Mercury is the authentic source of driving licences, MACH is the authentic source of revocations. When a municipality requests a citizen's driving licence data in Mercury, a link is always made with MACH to retrieve the information about a driving ban. Mercury shall not store any data relating to a lapse in the right to direct or an immediate withdrawal. The police themselves must develop an application to be able to consult the data on a decline in the right to direct. A detailed explanation of why the police in the field are still not able to request this information, please ask the Minister of the Interior. By way of conclusion, on the one hand, mobility behaviour is changing rapidly, requiring new measures. On the other hand, there is a need to provide consistency between the measures in progress and those still to be taken, both for the Regions and for the federal government. For example, I would like to recall the importance of training and awareness-raising campaigns that are the responsibility of the Regions. I would also like to point out that from a legislative point of view, our system is already very severe if we compare it to the neighbouring systems, but several studies by Vias clearly show that we must drastically increase the number of controls, which is a weakness of our country, and therefore the risk of being controlled because it is the only way to really enforce the law. In view of the above, I urge that in 2020, general statements of road safety be organised with all stakeholders, in order to take stock of the situation, with a comprehensive analysis, and to make new recommendations with all relevant stakeholders to improve safety on our roads.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to refer to a recent interview in which police judge D'Hondt indicates that attention to road safety, fortunately, has increased in recent decades. That is something that concerns us all. It gets awfully close sometimes. It is not for nothing that you can refer to a number of initiatives already taken by colleagues, precisely because we are all awake to road safety. That is a good thing. However, there is the fact that the Mercury database has been operational for so long but is not fully operational. Recidivists, traffic criminals, can get behind the wheel today without any kind of stress on the public road. Even police checks don't remove those people from traffic. The FPS Mobility has assumed the necessary responsibility. If I understand correctly, the shoe is mostly in the hands of the police. You say that I must seek further information through your colleague. I will do that, but I would also ask you, within the government in current affairs, which is not developing a new policy, which nevertheless creates scope for dealing with current affairs properly, to use the time available to encourage your Home Affairs colleague to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u60	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. Like you, I consider it necessary to increase the number of checks. I know that no one wants to be the object of this, but we inevitably need more checks on our roads. To do this, we need more police. This, of course, depends on the Minister of the Interior and perhaps even on his colleague in charge of justice. In any case, concrete measures must be taken, because the increase in the number of people killed on our roads – which we have seen this year – is totally unacceptable. It is also necessary to be consistent, in particular by updating the Road Traffic Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u61	Minister, the climate challenge requires us to drastically reduce our CO2 emissions, particularly in terms of transport. One of the sources of CO2 emissions that is unfortunately growing is air transport, including the development of low cost in Europe, a socially and environmentally harmful model. To counter this development, alternatives must be found, the train being one. Less energy efficient than the high-speed train, the night train is a particularly elegant alternative and in our view is a solution for the future. Since 2016, Austria's ÖBB railway company has been demonstrating the possible success of night trains: high filling rates, new open lines, new cars ordered. It has also announced the opening of a new Vienna-Brussels line from the beginning of 2020. This is the first stage of the return of the night train to Belgium. Minister, have you had any contact with ÖBB regarding this new line? Have you been able to learn about the exact frequency, rates and route? Will this train be limited to Belgium at a stop in Brussels? Is a stop in Liège on the route envisaged? If not, could you consider bringing this claim to ÖBB?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u62	Minister, since 2008 there have been no more night trains through Belgium, but this could finally change again from 2020. At the beginning of 2000, the demand declined, because everyone was under the spell of cheap airline tickets, but people are beginning to become more aware of their flight behaviour and are actively looking for alternatives. The night train can then be a great alternative and can also make a real contribution to the climate debate in one breath. The Austrian transport company ÖBB has correctly understood: it invests heavily in its offer. In Switzerland too, on the initiative of the Parliament, there is another step forward, as in the Netherlands, where a resolution for more night trains was widely adopted. So what are we waiting for? According to the news, with an article in De Standaard today, SNCB is in full contact with ÖBB, the Austrian transport company, and would seek cooperation to set up this service. A few days ago, however, there was a message that ÖBB would have submitted his application for the lanes to Infrabel too late. Firstly, is the information requested from SNCB to continue the route from the border with a SNCB locomotive, in order to speed up the procedure at Infrabel? If so, what appointments were made? Is the set timetable feasible? If no, how does ÖBB intend to achieve this timetable? Secondly, why is Infrabel using such a strict procedure for applying for lanes? Why can't we just do that once a year? Thirdly, is SNCB currently in conversation with other providers of international night transport? If so, with which companies? If not, why not? Finally, what possibilities do you see for SNCB to facilitate more night trains? What research has SNCB recently carried out on the cost or opportunity of laying in night trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u63	Mr President, Minister, there have been no longer night trains for a long time, and I regret that. I remember when I was a child I was allowed to travel on a night train, organized by the mutualities. In view of the climate challenges, night trains are an important alternative to the popular flights within Europe. For us, night trains are the most ecological alternative for travel up to 1,000 kilometres. We believe that the final solution to restart more international train paths is at the European level. The international rail market has been liberalised for ten years, but almost nothing remains of the former international network. It is therefore high time that we took matters back into our own hands, as the market does not work. The Austrian railway company ÖBB was scheduled to introduce a night train between Brussels and Vienna in January 2020, seventeen years after the last night train. Mr Minister, is it true that the night train from Austrian company ÖBB will start from Brussels to Vienna from January 2020? Will that deadline be met? Have the Austrian trains and their locomotives already been Homologized for our Belgian railways? What steps still need to be taken to welcome these trains to Belgium? Has SNCB been contacted by other European railway companies with a view to using night trains? If so, by which? How far are these calls? To what extent are the social partners involved in the start-up of the night tracks by rail? Will additional staff be recruited to ensure that night trains can also be operated in a safe manner in Belgium? Will SNCB staff be present on the Brussels-Vienna night train? Is our rail infrastructure equipped on night trains? Should there be any further investment to this end? What is the cost of a ticket for the night train from Brussels to Vienna? How much of that amount will go to SNCB and Infrabel and what part of that price will benefit ÖBB? At what frequency and on what days will the night train between Brussels and Vienna track? Will the route focus on tourism or rather on business travel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u64	Minister, the ÖBB would plan to have a night train between Brussels and Vienna from January 2020. This would be achieved through a partnership between ÖBB and SNCB. At a later stage, besides Belgium, the Netherlands would also be visited, with a stop in Amsterdam. The NS spokesperson noted that the connection on the Dutch part would not be profitable without a subsidy. On 10 October, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State announced that it will subsidise the ÖBB Nightjet on the Amstersdam-Vienna route with 6.7 million euros so that the night train would run between 2021 and 2024. After years of absence, in the form of a night train, another connection can be offered between Brussels and Vienna as an alternative to the plane, which we naturally welcome. However, if this connection can only be achieved through subsidies, more private rail operators would argue that this would be contradictory and distorting to the market. The subsidies favour only one party and make it more difficult for other private players to enter the market. Minister, what partnership is being established between SNCB and ÖBB? Is the connection to the Dutch example also loss-making? Will the night train receive subsidies or will it be considered to support the train connection in a different way? Do you also believe that subsidies distort the international rail transport market and should be avoided? Are there any other support measures that you are considering? The procedure for driving an international train in Belgium proved to be an Achilles heel in this file. Are measures being taken to facilitate the approval of foreign operators' passenger trains? Are there any other international train connections on the table besides the Nightjet to Vienna? Are there any requests from private rail operators for laying in night trains in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u65	Mr President, Minister, on 8 October you were already questioned in plenary by Mr Hanus about the news that the ÖBB wants to establish a night connection between Brussels and Vienna. You replied that you were pleased to be surprised by this initiative. So is the sp.a. fraction. We believe that more international train traffic, including night trains, is an opportunity to reduce the number of short flights within Europe that have a disastrous climate impact and to ensure a comfortable and better alternative. Today it is reported that that night train, the Nightjet, would travel between Brussels and Vienna on Monday and Thursday, twice a week, with stops in Brussels-North, Brussels-South and Liège. We also heard that the Infrabel application for the necessary lanes would have been made too late and that an agreement would also be concluded with SNCB, so that it could take over the Austrian train with its own locomotive, which would facilitate the application procedure for lanes and the approval procedure. Could you please clarify what procedure ÖBB must follow in order to have a night train run in our country? How's the procedure coming along? Is it realistic to effectively establish a link between Vienna and Brussels twice a week from January onwards? Can you explain more about the concrete plans? Can you confirm what is now being said about that night train? Will it effectively drive from Brussels via Liège? Will that be twice a week? Do you already have a look at the rates? What is the position of SNCB on the arrival of this connection at the ÖBB's initiative? Is it true that an agreement will be reached whereby SNCB will use locomotives for this train? Are there any plans to allow SNCB to play a more active role in this re-emerging market of night trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u66	Mr President, Minister, I have already asked you about this in plenary. It is now time to move on to concrete. So I will come directly to my questions. What steps should be taken by the operator, particularly with the Service de Sécurité et d'Interopérabilité des Chemins de Fer (SSICF) so that the first trains can run in Belgium? Should the regulator give its green light? What elements should be controlled by the said regulator? Are there any principles in terms of European equivalence that allow a train already travelling through Austria, Germany and Italy to be assumed to partially satisfy the requirements of the Belgian network.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u67	Minister, I will not repeat myself. In the meantime, we all know the background pretty well. I will confine myself to my questions. Firstly, how is the procedure for granting lanes by Infrabel going? Are there possibilities for making this procedure more flexible in order to allow more frequent applications, and to ensure a shorter lead time between the application and the award? Secondly, the flexibility of the award procedure has a lot to do, ranging from the homologation of locomotives and train sets to various other procedures. Can this procedure be made more efficient with a view to increasing supply, including across borders? Thirdly, on Saturday nights, the rail network is exclusively reserved for Infrabel between 1.00 and 5.00 hours. To what extent does this create an additional obstacle to the operation of night trains, especially when operating through international partners. Can we remove or reduce the existing thresholds? Fourthly, is there a policy with Infrabel and SNCB on applications for the network by external railway undertakings? To what extent is there a conflict of interest? Can maximum support be given, knowing that SNCB also offers its own initiatives for international train connections?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is closely following developments on the market, but it is not currently its intention to operate night trains itself. However, SNCB continues to respond to requests for international partnerships when requested. On the basis of business cases submitted by the applicant, the SNCB shall examine these eventualities if there is a commercial interest in SNCB. I would also like to distinguish two things. How do we travel longer distances than Belgian territory, such as long distances of 1 000 km? You have two rail options. There is the option of fast trains, such as Thalys, TGVs, ICEs. Brussels is a major node to the Netherlands, London, Paris, Montpellier, Marseille, Albertville, Cologne and Düsseldorf. We already have this option at long distance with fast trains. When you have to travel long distances on conventional lines, the other option is to return to a solution that existed 30 years ago, even 60 years ago, and that was stopped in the early 1990s. These are night trains. The distance between Vienna and Brussels is approximately 1,300 km. SNCB has been in contact with the Austrian company ÖBB and has studied the possibility of setting up a direct line between Brussels and Vienna by night train, in collaboration with ÖBB. The file is still under review, even though the announcement was made this morning. I'll come back. We can confirm today, on the basis of the information received, that from January onwards there will be two trains a week between Vienna and Brussels, with a stop at Liège station, in particular, according to our information, Mrs Schlitz. I would point out that this project is part of the international passenger transport market, which has been liberalised since 2010, and is therefore part of the commercial activities of SNCB, which is not a public service mission. In this context, SNCB is reluctant to disseminate commercially sensitive data to the general public. It has also explained in more detail its general position on the organisation of night trains and I refer you to Question No 3635, which was asked to me by Mr. Van den Bergh on May 22, 2019. It is a relatively comprehensive question that takes place on three pages of parliamentary documents. I invite you to read this document, which deals not only with the Brussels-Vienna line but also with the strategy for these international lines. The procedure for applying for capacity on the network is based on the legislation contained in the Rail Codex. In addition, Infrabel's deadlines for requesting capacity are in line with RNE requirements. RNE is the umbrella organisation of European infrastructure managers. Requesting capacity is always possible. On the other hand, the allocation of capacity and the related priority rules differ. Capacity requested in the annual planning plan This means that prior to the second Monday of April the timetable shall be treated as a priority from December of the same year as compared to applications applied for after the second Monday of April. Capacity requested after the second Monday of April is treated as late path request. Capacity is then allocated only in the residual capacity; that is the capacity that is still available after the examination of all applications for annual planning. For your information, I have not personally received any requests for subsidies for the implementation of an international night train. If this were to happen, the European regulatory framework should be respected. This choice will, of course, be left to the government's discretion. Furthermore, the rules governing the approval of vehicles are the responsibility of my colleague, Minister Ducrame. For my part, I am preparing the implementation of the fourth railway package in its technical part which, in the long run, will simplify the national certification procedures for rolling stock crossing borders since European regulations have provided that this matter will henceforth be entrusted to the European Union Agency for Railways (ERA). Infrabel has not yet received rail-path requests for night trains from candidates other than SNCB. Occasionally there is interest from private players, but that has not yet resulted in an official application. The railway infrastructure can be operated both during the day and at night. However, SNCB no longer has the type of carriage eligible for night trains. In this context, I refer again to the reply to Mr Van den Bergh's written question of 1 March 2019. Finally, the renewal of night trains supported by climate awareness is a recent phenomenon, the extent of which remains to be determined. In any case, the Belgian railway world is very attentive to this. For example, the infrastructure manager supports the development of rail supply and analyses each track demand in a neutral manner, based on applicable regulations. These trains will be put into service in January at an undetermined cost. The 1,300 km Vienna-Brussels route will take 12 hours. It will be necessary to see how the balance will be established with the tariff requested. That's the information I could bring you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u69	Minister, thank you. I'm going to consult with colleagues to find out what they're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u70	Minister, thank you. It's great news for Liège station; it's win-win. On the one hand, the Liegeians will have access to this railway offer and, on the other hand, in the filling of this train, a whole market around Liège can be captured. For the reduction of our emissions and the success of this project, it is essential that it be finalized. The Liegeians will be delighted to hear the news. More generally, SNCB will have to position itself on the development of night trains. It's an area you don't have to pass by. Projects will obviously develop at European level. My colleague has tabled a motion on this matter. These are important opportunities that need to be seized. You mustn't miss the train, without a bad pun!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u71	Mr President, Minister, let it be clear that Ecolo-Green has to be the logical choice for every distance up to 1000 km. The night train can be a good alternative and can also make an extra contribution to the climate debate. It's obvious. In Sweden, Austria and Switzerland, governments have understood. The Netherlands is also investigating opportunities. Get Belgium to follow. That is why we urge the government to take measures to ensure that the possibilities are as favourable as possible, so that, in addition to the Brussels-Vienna link, more international night trains can be built. I am thinking here of reducing lane fees, a more flexible application process and active consultation with other rail providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u72	Mr President, Minister, it is also very good for us that this train is going to start and that the dossier will be further developed. It is also very important for us that shorter distances of less than 1,000 km can be more and more achieved by the train. Mr Minister, you did not answer the question of what would be offered in the field of employment, nor did you answer the question of the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u73	We all agree, Minister, that international transport must be encouraged. We are pleased with your answer that no subsidies are being distributed that are distorting the market. Rather, we must give players opportunities in the international market. We see that there are opportunities in a liberalised market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u74	Minister, it is a good thing that you can confirm that we can take the night train to Vienna twice a week from January. I hope that this can be a signal and encourage SNCB to take a serious look at the revival of the market. As Mr Ecolo-Groen has pointed out, there are already other states that are very positive about this and are taking action. I think we should do the same. The colleague of the Open Vld fears market-distorting subsidies. For example, tax exemptions for kerosene are good examples. Another example is the millions of euros of tax money invested every year in regional airports, allowing an anachronistic flight from Antwerp to London City, while twelve trains run every day between Brussels and London. It is good that you take a look at this and I assume that you are looking at the subsidies for aviation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u75	Of course, I share the enthusiasm of my colleagues for this news and the progress they have made. Minister, I invite you to reread the text I tabled last July, which is in favour of the night train, by reducing the cost of train paths during the night. This is something I hope we will be able to work on in the coming months, and I hope above all that the next government will be able to deal with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u76	Mr President, let me make a point: I hope that all those who are in favour of night trains will take the night train to Vienna at least once in their lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u77	Minister, I will be delighted to take advantage of this. Vienna is a beautiful city and I have planned to visit the city one day. In any case, this is a good initiative. I hope that many of these new projects will be launched. It is up to us as policy makers to lower the existing thresholds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u78	Mr Minister, the S460 procedure concerns the single track service with the use of construction machinery on railway yards. This has been the subject of dispute between DVIS and Infrabel in recent years. Following the renewal of Infrabel's safety licence, DVIS prohibited the application of the S460 procedure. This was subsequently revised to allow continued use of the S460, provided that it was accompanied by a risk analysis. Infrabel contested this decision at the Marktenhof. This led to a new procedure S460 being developed, starting from 1 January 2019, which allows working on traces in use under strict conditions. Mr Minister, has Infrabel tested the procedure S460 including risk analysis, as proposed by DVIS? How often was this used? What were the findings on this application? Or did legal action be taken immediately? What was Infrabel's motive for challenging DVIS' decision? Has Infrabel already applied the procedure in its version as revised from 1 January 2019? How many times has this been applied? What were the findings? To what extent does the dispute over the S460 procedure play a role in Infrabel's decision to massage the works outside weekends and outside the nights and instead during the day? Do you, as the competent minister, support Infrabel's choice to organise these works as such, knowing that this creates additional nuisance for train traffic and thus also for the train traveller?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u79	Mr President, Mr Infrabel informs me that after the decision to suspend the S460 procedure was taken, an analysis of the works planned for the period from July to December 2018 was carried out. Infrabel was obliged to strictly restrict her intervention. Only the works that had an impact on operational safety were retained in the planned planning. In accordance with the request of the DVIS, the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service, which is under the supervision of Minister Ducarme, Infrabel has developed and applied a risk analysis in the form of a decision matrix. By applying that decision matrix, objective safety criteria were used to determine whether or not the railway line was entirely out of service. Infrabel must respect a duty of restraint in the context of the legal proceedings pending before the French-speaking business court of Brussels. After a period of testing and staff training, Infrabel has been applying the new S560 procedure since 1 January 2019. This new procedure is applied to the network on average 350 times a month. The results are satisfactory. On the basis of the prior risk analyses, taking into account different parameters related to yards and train traffic, there is a possibility that the infrastructure manager's teams may have to interrupt a whole line during the work. In the event of such a situation, the total interruption shall be used to plan a maximum number of interventions on the different assets of the infrastructure. Such a grouping of activities during the complete interruption of train traffic is indeed called massification of the works. Usually, maintenance works on the rail network are carried out during short out-of-service operations of the infrastructure which are concentrated in periods when there is no train traffic. Consequently, its duration is limited and its spread over time and space is based on the location of the maintenance crews. This way the maintenance cannot be carried out optimally. The massification of the maintenance works therefore aims to concentrate its execution over longer periods of time on longer sections, but always with a view to a minimal impact of these works on traffic. I would add that massification should not be regarded as the rule and that it should be applied only in a limited number of specific cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u80	Mr Minister, security is, of course, an important priority for both DVIS and Infrabel, but at the same time the service to the traveller must also be maintained. Here we find ourselves in a situation in which these two principles conflict with each other. I fully agree with you that massification should not become a principle and that it should be avoided as far as possible to completely decommission sections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u81	Minister, I would like to ask you about a number of points concerning the issue of the overflight of Brussels. In September, the federal government owed €3.2 million to the Brussels government for breaching noise standards. The federal authorities have been in default of payment since 30 August. In addition, the federal government was required to conduct a noise impact study. The second part of this report was published in June this year. Then, in order to avoid paying more penalty payments and quickly improve the situation, your firm proposed some time ago to set up quick wins. In addition, Brussels Airport Company, which manages the airport, recently announced its intention to renovate runway 25R/07L from 13 July to 23 August 2020. Finally, at the end of 2016, skeyes – formerly Belgocontrol – introduced a new software to help with the selection of tracks (RAAS). A few months later, this software was declared illegal. Minister, do you confirm that you will continue to pay the penalty payments until the federal government responds to the judgment? Can you confirm that the above-mentioned quick wins have been studied and evaluated by your services? What is the concrete impact on the ground noise of these quick wins and which area (close to the airport, remote periphery, densely populated area)? Can you provide us with these environmental assessments? Do you have the technical possibility to reduce the noise experienced by the inhabitants who have been flying for almost two years now? What is the status of the runway renovation project? Has it been evaluated? Can you provide us with your noise studies to limit the impact on the overlying areas? Has the public been informed of this? Would this renovation not be an opportunity to evaluate the new flight pattern? What is the status of the implementation of RAAS software? Is it used by skeyes? If so, how do you explain that skeyes uses software whose parameters have not been validated by you? Are the criteria public? If so, can you provide them to us? As for the follow-up to the second part of the impact study I mentioned, have you studied the environmental impact of roads? What do you intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u82	Mr Minister, as my colleague has just explained, this dossier is constantly coming back from the legislature to the legislature, because the overflight of Brussels and its immediate periphery causes many nuisances to the inhabitants of the communes concerned. It also unlawfully and disproportionately violates their fundamental rights, mainly the right to a healthy environment enshrined both in our Constitution and in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights. Air pollution caused by reactor discharges and real insecurity caused by aircraft in the critical phase of take-off or landing constitute one of the serious damage to the physical integrity of the inhabitants of the Brussels-Capital Region and its immediate periphery. During the previous legislature, my group stopped questioning you on this issue. For more than 15 years, no progress has been made at the federal level. Worse still, the number of flights observed has continued to grow, both during the day and during the night. Many Brusselsers complain again this morning that they were awakened at 05:00 by the deafening noise of the reactors. We also stress that at no time did the federal government assess the environmental impact of these night flights on the inhabitants of the Brussels-Capital Region and its immediate periphery, despite the proven risks to their sleep and tranquillity. However, the Brussels court of first instance, by its judgment of 20 July 2017, condemned the Belgian State by demanding strict compliance with the order Gosuin, known as the "noise order", which entered into force in 2000. The court also confirmed, by its judgment of 1 February 2019, the Federal State's obligation to produce an environmental impact assessment before 3 June 2019, under penalty of a penalty payment of EUR 300 000 per month of delay. According to the latest information provided by the press and confirmed by various organizations, it appears that some communes in the north of the country are trying to demonstrate that the Brussels Region would be flying very little, in order to take advantage of it in a judicial dispute. If it is not up to us to decide on this dispute, it still raises the question because there are maps of the radar tracks of flights which were only on the ring road and which would have been hijacked, deliberately omitting those showing that the left bend is flying over Brussels. Minister, what is the status of the overflight of the Brussels Region and its immediate periphery? Can major progress be expected both by the associations and by the inhabitants? What is the status of the environmental impact study and the payment of any periodic penalty payments in the event of federal inaction? Can a government, of course in day-to-day affairs, decide not to comply with court decisions? In order to clarify any erroneous information, could you inform us of the number of aircraft flying over Brussels during 2018?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u83	Colleagues, the Federal State paid the penalty payments claimed by the Brussels-Capital Region for the two months of command received, dating from May and June 2019, in the amount of €2,411,490.41 for flights found in violation by the Brussels-Capital Region in April and May 2019. The Belgian State has always honoured the payments due. In the file you are quoting, these payments have also taken place. We paid for all the commands we received. We didn't get any more. With regard to noise pollution, you refer to the second part of the impact study carried out by Envisa. Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to invite you to read both aspects of this study. Indeed, it is of a high quality and, in my view, poses the real questions in the face of a global problem that requires the involvement of everyone. The principles and ways of seeking a fair solution are set out. I recall that the analysis served some raw truths about each other in the observation, and no one escaped it. The preamble to the operational summary of this study states: "A common noise policy for Brussels airport is a prerequisite for any body to determine the optimal operational solution." After setting out a list of some ten examples of the objectives of this common policy, the study adds: "These objectives are not fully compatible with each other and nowhere is this type of objective defined as a common Belgian policy on aircraft noise at Brussels-National Airport." And to continue: "As long as no harmonised and mutually agreed political process between all parties is completed, no external agency can therefore provide the solution of operational noise – in other words: miracle solution – scientifically expected and required by the judgement of 19 July 2017." The quick wins do not derogate from this principle. No structural measure – whether in the short, medium or long term – can be isolated from a general approach. Any measure – whatever its nature – would have the side effect of benefiting more to some fringes of the population to the detriment of others. Moreover, I would like to point out that the judicial decisions made after the July 2017 decision on complaints from residents of a region other than the Brussels-Capital Region make it impossible to take any action that is not the result of a general approach. Therefore, it is important for the next federal government to be able to conduct the development of a comprehensive approach to noise nuisances, based on the overall plan that I will present to the members of the Kern and try to advance, as well as on the Envisa study that we have had in recent months. As far as RAAS is concerned, I would like to point out that RAAS has been developed to assist the controllers in the selection of the tracks to be used, in accordance with the instructions given by the Minister. This tool is not a substitute for air traffic controllers. Keyes is required to ensure, as expected from an autonomous public enterprise, the safety of air navigation and compliance with ministerial instructions. I confirm that no changes have been made to the decision-making process and runway selection criteria for the implementation of the RAAS and that to date, the parameters proposed by Skeyes have not been validated by the Air Traffic Branch (ATB). Some of your questions also refer to the press articles that appeared last week about an alleged attempt to manipulate the Flemish parties – communes and provinces – in an action brought against the Belgian State. It is not for me to rule on these allegations. Nevertheless, I can tell you that the general and detailed situation of air traffic operating in Brussels-National – both in terms of number of movements and percentages per runway, agglomeration, departure route and arrival procedure – is well reflected in the various tables and maps of the document containing the Belgian State's findings which our lawyers have handed over to the judge who hears the case. The maps showing the noise curves of the entire Brussels airport traffic are therefore well incorporated, with multiple details on the whole airport activity – without isolating or forgetting one – allowing the parties and judges to shed light on the data and proportions of the number of aircraft on the different routes and on the resulting noise for each Region. If you wish, we can give you this list. Our lawyers have a photograph of the whole situation. As regards the renovation of the runways at Brussels-National Airport, according to Article 2(2) of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2014 on air rules and operational provisions relating to air navigation procedures, the Minister is competent to determine the flight routes and thus the use of runways in Brussels-National during the course of the work. The instructions of the Minister and the Director General regulating the use of the PRS provide for the possibility of derogation from the PRS in the event of work on the relevant runways. By mail, LAC informed me, at the beginning of September 2019, of the runways that will probably be used by skeyes on the basis of weather conditions, available infrastructure and other criteria for the allocation of runways currently in force and otherwise described to the AIP. I have asked DGTA, following this September 2019 letter for work in 2020, for a detailed analysis of the impacts of this work and a proposal for mitigation measures, i.e. the configuration of runways that DGTA will consider most appropriate to submit to me. Following this analysis and these proposals, I will have a consultation with the administration and an instruction will then be sent to skeyes, as was done during the other work on the same track 25R in 2012 and 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u84	Mr President, we still have to be careful and avoid the dubious humour about the overflight of Brussels, even if it made me smile.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u85	Let us try to land on this item on the agenda before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u86	You're in good shape, Mr. President! Mr Minister, as has been said, although reports are being made, actions are being carried out, although political programmes are being written by each other, this is a matter which haunts the nights of a very large part of the population of Brussels for too long. Being from Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, this is a situation that I unfortunately know too well. You're objective. I would also like to thank you for the documents you have given us. We will, of course, continue to ask you questions. I know the subject isn't easy. I don't think we can solve it with a magic wand. But at some point it will be necessary, on the basis of objective reports, to be able to respond politically to a problem of quality of life and public health which is linked to the nuisances of flights for the population of Brussels, but also outside. To this end, it would be interesting to have the second part of the data you mentioned. Our determination to move forward on this issue is truly unwavering. But it is clear that it will obviously take several people around the table to get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u87	Mr Minister, I thank you for your fairly well-substantiated answers, I must admit. I would also like to thank you for the figures you have given us, which clearly show that the overflight of Brussels remains problematic in the eyes of the Brussels parties concerned. That is why, if maps were diverted in the course of certain conclusions, even if this is not the case with the conclusions that were filed by the Belgian State, this is just unacceptable. I would also like to return to the payment of the periodic penalty payments. I understand that the federal government paid periodic penalty payments for the flights that were found to be in violation for the months of April and May. But this solution is not tenable. And this clearly demonstrates the need for a structural solution in this area. You explain that if there is a blockage, it is not the result of a lack of will on the part of the federal government, but of a lack of will on the part of certain partners with whom a solution must be found, which I take note of. However, as a federal Minister of Mobility, your mission is to bring all partners together to reach a solution that can satisfy everyone or, at least, the greatest number of people. It is a matter of complying with court decisions but also with your own government agreement, which insisted on the economic development of the airport while respecting the living conditions of the residents and of all citizens affected by noise nuisances. There is always the environmental impact study part, but I also wanted to stress the problem of a possible setting of a so-called night period that is in force at other airports without prejudice to the economic activity of these airports, the development of a national airport strategy and also the establishment of an independent public authority for the control of air noise. With the ongoing litigation, we see the importance of having fully objective partners in their findings and recommendations. I hear your determination but know that we, too, remain committed to ensuring that the solutions on which you and your successor are going to work are in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u88	I would like to give an answer in the form of a pointade or a suggestion that I made. We have a study office that has just conducted a very thorough study, carried out by major international experts who have been able to achieve spectacular results at large well-known airports. I simply ask all our political families if they are ready to say that they are withdrawing from the file and entrusting these experts with the task of drawing up future air routes arriving in Brussels and finding solutions. I'm not asking you for an answer now. That's a question I'm asking. I said so in the previous committee; I asked other political partners who were not necessarily in the federal government's majority if they were ready, as in most other countries where there are conflicts around airports, to say that political power was withdrawing from the file and confided to an independent, scientific authority, known for the relevance of its choices, the opportunity to decide airport activity and roads. I'm not asking you to answer, but think about it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u89	Since Parliament has the last word, I turn to Mrs Rohonyi. Would you like to reply to the minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u90	Minister, I hear your suggestion, but I think there are still objective criteria that allow us to determine a route that respects the people as much as possible. One of these criteria, precisely, is the density of the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u91	This is obviously a very sensitive but also exciting debate. I know we're in a period of day-to-day business with a minority government, but we've been waiting for these federal government responses for many years. Objectivation, international experts, we have always seen them with a good eye. However, at some point a decision has to be taken at the political level. All political decisions cannot be left to an external body. Perhaps we should have tried it for the last four or five years. I do not find that you, or your predecessor, have devoted a great deal of energy to this level. I hear your call and I'm partly sensitive to it, but we have to take action. I know that today the conditions are not in place for action, but it will have to be dealt with urgently as soon as a majority is set up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u92	The Envisa report, Parts I and II, can be found on the Mobility and Transport FPS website. I invite you to read it with rested head, but not before you go to sleep because you might spend a bit of agitated night, given the speech, sometimes a bit harsh, held against all the actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u93	Colleagues, the minister will leave us at about 5:30 p.m. We can still deal with a few issues, in principle until item 28 of our agenda. The remaining issues will be dealt with in a forthcoming committee on Wednesday, 27 November. Mr. Bertels, you have a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u94	Indeed, Mr President, will my question under item 38 be taken up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u95	No, Mr Bertels, that question will be discussed at another sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u96	Mr President, Minister, in the draft network statement for 2021, we read on page 57 that, in the context of the national work window, capacity allocated to Infrabel is reserved on Sunday between 01.00 and 05.00 hours, regardless of the intensity of use of the line and this for the entire network. At that time there are still some trains, for example the IC445 from Brussels Central to Ostend and the IC9272 from Antwerp Central to Brussels Central. Moreover, there are still a number of trains which have to arrive in certain places in good time before the end or start of the service. I have the following questions for you, Minister. Firstly, can you indicate exactly what the scope of this passage is? Does this mean that work takes place all year round on Saturday night between 01.00 and 05.00 hours on the net? The same procedures and timing apply to the planning of these works, with regard to consultation with operators, as you have replied to previous parliamentary questions. Secondly, what is the impact on rail traffic, including on the examples cited? When and how is this impact communicated to travellers? Are bus services or other alternatives offered for impacted train services? Finally, could this pose a problem for the allocation of additional lanes in the future? Does this limit the possibility of expanding the offer of late evening, night or morning trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u97	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, working on rail infrastructure is crucial in order to ensure safe rail traffic and a reliable rail network. Infrabel informs me that she will do everything in her power to minimise the inconvenience. A work window is built into that framework. This is a time interval that is kept free for work. Infrabel's technical services can schedule work at their discretion within this period. Works take precedence over trains within this time interval. However, this does not mean that any work will take place during this period. If no works are planned, trains can be scheduled. The operators are aware of the work windows. According to Infrabel, trains that are requested within a work window will be moved or possibly abolished to give priority to scheduled works. The way trains are adapted is done in close consultation with the railway operators concerned. When and how the impact is communicated to passengers, as well as the alternatives offered, is a decision of SNCB or other operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u98	Mr Minister, my question was prompted by a concern of TrainTramBus and the Association of Train Users who thought they had read that there could no longer be trains between 01.00 and 05.00 on Saturday night, which turns out to be wrong. Priority is given only to works. Given the arrival of the new night connection with Vienna and hopefully a further extension of the night train offer, I would ask that this be taken into account in the future and that the work window should not hinder that development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u99	Mr Minister, we recently read in the press about a study by CROW-Fietsberaad, the knowledge centre for cycling policy of the authorities in the Netherlands, which is the cycling country in Europe. This study shows that those who cycle with music in their ears are at up to ten times more risk of an accident. We also had the debate in the media. On the one hand there are advocates of a ban, such as former police judge Christian Van Hoorebeke and university researcher Bas de Geus, and on the other hand there is the Cyclists' Association, which believes that this argument applies to all road users. Motorists and pedestrians can also be distracted by music in the ears. By the way, some headphones are soundproof, eliminating ambient noise, but maintaining contact with the environment. So the situation is not as black and white as is proposed. Mr Minister, first of all, are you aware of this investigation? Could you briefly explain its conclusions? Secondly, do you know any more details from the investigation? In what way was the increased risk of an accident identified by wearing headphones or earphones? Is there a certain decibel content from when the focus on traffic decreases strongly? Thirdly, are you aware of studies on the impact of ambient noise and distraction on other road users? Fourthly, how do you feel about wearing ears and headphones in traffic, either by cyclists or by other road users? Are you in favour of a ban or would you consider it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u100	Mr Vandenbroucke, many studies have already been carried out on the subject. Most come to the rather predictable conclusion that listening to music in traffic makes the ambient noises worse and that locating other vehicles becomes more difficult. In some studies cyclists mentioned compensation behavior in complex traffic situations, such as softening the music, slightly more often looking around or using only one earpiece. However, in other studies, such compensation behaviour was not or hardly established during the observations. The research on this issue is not at a sufficiently advanced stage at the present time to give rise to policy options. A ban is not currently under discussion. Such a ban will also immediately give rise to additional questions, such as: what about pedestrians? What about bikers who listen to music with boxes in their helmet? What about too loud music in cars? And so on. Fortunately, there is Article 8.3 of the traffic regulations, which states that a driver must always be able to carry out all necessary driving movements and must constantly have his vehicle or his animals in good control. This allows drivers to be punished already if it becomes clear that listening to too loud music is not enough for them to control their vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u101	Thank you, Minister, for your reassuring reply, which I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u102	Mr Minister, I will cut my question a little bit, given the pressure on time. I believe that what I wrote to introduce my question is not necessary to convince everyone of the importance of the problem of rail. A number of checks have recently been carried out. What struck me was that the two checks in my neighborhood found quite a lot of violations in one place but that in the station of Kiewit, in Hasselt, the results were surprisingly good. The audience there consisted mainly of schoolchildren whose school is 200 meters away, who were very good at the rules. It turns out that Infrabel was in the classrooms of that school for prevention, with a good result. I am very pleased about that. Because I know that school very well. It used to be my own school. I have been in contact with the management and it seems that it has worked very widely with regard to rail safety. I come to my questions. How many schools were visited by Infrabel for safety prevention on railways or railway crossings? Was or has there been consultation with the various educational frameworks or with local authorities to further extend this good prevention project to other schools? If so, what was the outcome of those talks? What's the status? If not, why not, and will this consultation still take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u103	Dear colleague, Infrabel lets me know that in 2019 she organised an action with The Floor in 20 schools or during traffic days of local police. Infrabel has thus reached about 8,000 young people. Five more actions are planned until the end of this year. A lot of applications are coming in, too. In the school year 2018-2019 there were 29 actions in schools and during police days. For actions with The Floor, Infrabel only works on request. Any school in Belgium can apply for such a awareness campaign for free. Infrabel puts a minimum number of participants of 250 students first. Up to now, Infrabel has not contacted the education boards and the education boards, as she has had enough applications for the whole school year. In 2018, Infrabel did participate in a training course of the VSV, in which local authorities and police zones could participate, as well as in a study day for primary and secondary schools. During that training and study day, Infrabel explained its various initiatives. In 2020, Infrabel, in collaboration with Securail, wants to see where there are problematic situations, called hotspots, in order to proactively offer the schools an action there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u104	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It was very clear. I absolutely welcome this initiative. I think it's a very good initiative. I just want to make a suggestion. Perhaps the schools themselves, in cooperation with Infrabel, could work on road safety in general and specifically on the problems of rail crossings and rail tracks. Therefore, people from Infrabel do not necessarily always have to be present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u105	Mr. Minister, on the weekend of 12 October 2019, volunteers from the Gents MilieuFront counted all the parked bicycles around Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. They counted 13,460 bicycles in and around the station site, which represents an increase of 19% compared to a census at the end of 2017. On the other hand, there are only 11,861 free bicycle storage facilities available in and around the station, which makes it impossible for 2,100 bicycles to store. Around the station are several places where bicycles can be placed. At the Queen Maria-Hendrikaplein in front of the entrance of the station there is place in the stables for 1,763 bikes and at the count no fewer than 1,300 bikes. The stables are managed by the parking company APCOA, which, on behalf of SNCB, cleans up the bicycle sheds three times a year and removes bicycle wrecks. That's too little, considering the way the square is usually attached to it. Also in the underground parking lot the demand is higher than the supply, with 4,448 bicycles for only 4,137 stables. The underground bicycle parking under Mathildeplein in the management of SNCB was largely empty during the same weekend, with only 119 bicycles for 1,800 bicycle parking places. After all, that bicycle storage is only accessible via a narrow staircase with a bicycle gutter. The access is also not indicated to the station. I would have liked to ask the following questions. How many bicycle storage facilities in and around Ghent-Sint-Pieters station are there now in the management of SNCB? Mr Minister, can you give a final update on the Gent-Sint-Pieters renovation project, specifically for the bicycle sheds? Have any plans been made for the creation of additional bicycle storage facilities? If so, how many stables are we talking about? What location are they coming to? When was the last moment of consultation between SNCB and the city of Ghent about the bicycle sheds in and around Gent-Sint-Pieters? Are both parties aware of the shortage of bicycle storage facilities? Have any agreements been made or initiatives taken? Is SNCB aware of the problems with old bicycles left at the stables at Queen Maria Hendrikaplein? Is SNCB prepared to increase the frequency for clearing the stables by APCOA?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u106	Mr Vandenbroucke, all those bikes at the station are indeed impressive. I'll confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u107	Mr President, there is an immense amount of cycling in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u108	Mr Vandenbroucke, SNCB had the manager of the bicycle sheds, APCOA, count the number of bicycles stored at the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters. According to SNCB, 3,000 were counted less than you quoted in your question. In any case, SNCB currently offers 12,050 bicycle sheds and plans to grow to 15,000. It has also recently conducted a survey to better know the users of the bicycle shed. The results are expected by the end of October. There are regular consultations between the city of Ghent and SNCB. At the meeting on 8 November of a new technical expert group, including representatives of SNCB, the city of Ghent, GMF and TrainTramBus, the bicycle storage will be discussed. The number of times misplaced bicycles are removed is contractually committed until 2021. It is not possible to adjust the obligations during the duration of the contract. According to SNCB, the installation of an access control system will have a positive impact on a number of orphan bicycles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u109	Minister, it is a good thing that the number of bicycle sheds will be increased from 12,000 to 15,000. You didn't mention the timing. Can you say something about that? It is particularly unfortunate that the contract with APCOA cannot be modified, because it is very problematic. Mr President, you are right: we in Ghent succeed in getting more and more people to use the bike. It is simply spectacular how many people use the bike more every year. We really need to make sure that at a node of sustainable mobility the train station is so there are sufficient and safe bicycle sheds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u110	Mr President, Minister, anyone who wants to buy a ticket on the SNCB app has 23 options. One does not get an explanation for the option but one has to estimate oneself what is the most appropriate ticket. The same applies to ticket machines. Even then one has to know that from Friday 19:00 onwards one better buy a weekend ticket, one wants to travel back and forth on the same weekend. There are still many examples. Soon it would also be possible to purchase the even more complex formulas such as rail passes and others via the app. This threatens to complicate the process even further. However, if SNCB is to be more customer-friendly, it is important that it guides its travellers towards the most advantageous formula for them. Hence my next questions. How does SNCB itself evaluate ticket sales through its app and vending machines? How many complaints do SNCB receive within a year in connection with the operation of the ticket sales of the app and the vending machines? What are the main complaints about this problem? What plans are there for SNCB to simplify the tariff structure of its tickets, passes and subscriptions? How do you assess the tariff structure? What improvements do you consider necessary? Does SNCB have plans to change the software of its vending machines and the app? If so, will more attention be paid to customer friendliness?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u111	Mr President, Minister, it seems that on 8 October there was training at the Diest station to encourage travellers to make more use of vending machines and the app to buy tickets because the opening hours of the counters are reduced. We are not in favour of reducing customer service in stations such as Diest, yet a city centre. Mr Buyst has made it very clear what the problem is with apps and vending machines. They do not automatically give the cheapest option. It is not realistic to expect users of the train, especially occasional users, to see ready in the complex tariff structure of SNCB. You should know that there is a weekend rate and that there are temporary rates, for example for the week of mobility or the Happy Trip ticket and so on. In other words, a simplification of the ticketing system and a modernisation of the software of the vending machines is essential if the traveller is to be provided with the same service as at a point of contact. I have a few questions about that. Are there any plans at SNCB to improve the software of the vending machines and apps so that the traveller always gets the cheapest ticket? Is it being considered to provide the vending machines with a help or contact function so that the remote travelers can be helped by a contact centre when buying a ticket? On 8 October, SNCB organised an information session on the use of vending machines at the Diest station. Are these sessions organized in multiple stations? How many complaints do SNCB get about broken or malfunctioning machines every year? In how many cases were travellers reimbursed in the last three years when they could demonstrate that they were not sold the cheapest ticket? What total amount was that in each of these years? Is it true that the intention is to keep the existing points of contact open until 2020, but that alternatives will then be sought? If so, can you indicate whether there is any concrete planning for closing the counters and how many stations are affected by this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u112	My dear colleague, seven out of ten train tickets are being purchased today via digital channels. This change in purchasing behaviour naturally has a major impact on SNCB's sales channels. SNCB places the customer at the centre. She follows the habits of her customers and insists that her offer is adapted to the wishes of her different types of customers. SNCB has indeed set up a number of initiatives to make it easier for the customer to find his way into its offer, so that it can find a suitable solution, depending on his personal profile. In 2019, SNCB started its new interactive website, which makes navigation easier and improves customer experience. Its tariff offer was also simplified. Some examples are the simplification of group rates, the introduction of a simplified offer for concert halls, the Bravo! Ticket for Prince National, the simplification of the bicycle offer and so on. Other projects are also under study by 2020, some of which are aimed at simplifying customer navigation across different distribution channels. If we compare the number of complaints that SNCB receives about its sales through its digital channels to the total number of sales, we can say that only a small fraction, 0,000018 % of the transactions leads to a complaint. From these figures I think I can conclude that the customer satisfaction of SNCB's digital offer is high. The few complaints received by SNCB about the use of its vending machines mainly deal with incorrect choices that have been made, a customer who does not wish to use his ticket anyway, or a note that would not have been delivered. The problems related to the availability of the vending machines themselves represent only 2% of complaints. On its updated website, SNCB has already developed a solution that provides assistance in the search for the best rate. Currently, SNCB is also working out a solution to ensure guidance to the best price when purchasing via the smartphone or an automatic machine. In doing so, it seeks the right balance between ease of use, the choice of the best product and the speed of the transaction. The very high level of availability of 98.8 % of the vending machines ensures that passengers are satisfied with SNCB's vending machines. You ask me how many travellers were refunded if they could show that they were not offered the cheapest ticket. However, such figures do not keep up with SNCB. SNCB has provided telephone assistance for the use of vending machines since the beginning of 2015. The number of the SNCB contact centre is indicated on each SNCB machine and is accessible seven days at seven, from 07.00 to 21.30 hours. Here the customer can get help to guide him in the purchase transaction, on the product options, payment methods and issue of the ticket, to inform him about the available products, to advise him and to help him in the event of technical difficulties. This possibility is little used by SNCB customers. SNCB also organises information sessions on the use of the vending machines in each municipality that asks for them. SNCB informs me that she is currently receiving very few such requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that SNCB is taking initiatives, but at the moment the traveller is getting lost in the complicated SNCB system, especially the traveller using the app or the vending machine, where no less than 23 options create confusion. That's why I'm launching a few calls. Firstly, let us make it easier. Let us ensure that the traveller always gets the cheapest ticket, regardless of whether he buys his ticket at a counter, at a vending machine or online. Secondly, let us take steps to align the train, tram and bus tickets. In this way, we make it easier for those who opt for public transport and reward the commuter for its sustainable choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. For a moment, I thought you mentioned the Clenbuterol level in Alberto Contador's blood during the 2012 Vuelta when you quoted the margin of error. The essence of the whole story is, of course, that there is still a fundamental difference between the service of someone at the window or the service of a machine or app. I am in favour of automation if it can increase the ease of use and the customer-friendliness of public transport, but it is important that the customer can count on him or her always being charged the cheapest rate automatically. I believe that a company such as SNCB, which uses a lot of modern technologies, has indicated how many tickets are sold through these technologies that should be able to make that possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u115	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I will be brief, especially since the subject of my question may have been raised in the context of the road safety issues that were raised earlier. If there are any repetitions, I beg your pardon. I am reminded that a project to exchange ideas was launched on Wednesday, 9 October, between twelve countries of the European Union. I will not quote them, but you see which one is being discussed. The aim was to share best practices in improving road safety (speed reduction, infrastructure, safety of low urban users, data collection). This project, funded by the European Union and managed by the European Transport Safety Council (ETSC), which will extend until 2021, aims to reduce the overall number of deaths and serious injuries on European roads. As many as 25,000 deaths occurred in 2018, a decrease of 1% compared to the previous year. I am surprised, despite the current business environment, that our country has not been involved in this process, particularly in view of the latest figures from Vias, the road safety barometer, according to which the number of killed has increased in the first six months of this year, from 241 to 306, an increase of 27 per cent. It's huge. Therefore, Minister, can you make me aware of the justifications for Belgium's absence from this European project? If you confirm this absence, has Belgium committed itself in any other way to this level of power to reduce road mortality?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u116	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, the project to which you are referring, funded by the European Commission and organised by the ETSC, has the clear objective of organising a sponsorship of the countries most in difficulty in terms of road safety by the most efficient Member States. You have, on the one hand, countries where road safety is not good and, on the other hand, countries which can serve as examples and models of road safety. This project aims at the transmission of good practice. Belgium was not included in the group of bad people, nor in the group of good people, but in the middle was not asked to do so. On the other hand, Belgium is of course actively involved in the High Level Group on Road Safety chaired by the European Commission. This forum has many discussions on topical topics, such as defining key road safety performance indicators and micromobility issues. It also allows for many exchanges between Member States on good road safety practices. Finally, as a member of ETSC, the Vias Institute will follow with great attention the development of this project and will be informed of the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u117	Minister, thank you for this concise answer. However, I am surprised at the added value of the group that was created, since there was already this forum in which Belgium participates. I hear that Belgium is neither a good European student nor the worst. Still, we must be ambitious when it comes to reducing mortality on our roads. Therefore, we must be able to achieve the objective of being one of the European countries with the most optimal road safety. Minister, I encourage you to participate more in this forum to ensure that we are in the lead of countries that are committed to strengthening their road safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-commissie-ic042x.u118	Mrs Rohonyi and Mr Minister, thank you. We have exhausted part of the agenda.
