ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u1	Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence this morning. Weather conditions are particularly difficult today, which explains the absence of some members. They will certainly join us during a meeting. On the agenda of our meeting there is an exchange of views with Deputy Prime Minister Peeters, who is now competent for persons with disabilities. The Minister will make a general presentation with audio-visual support, as usual. This will be followed by the presentation of the audit conducted by the Federal Internal Audit Service and the presentation of the Minister's action plan. The Director General will then speak on the organisation and functioning of the Directorate-General for People with Disabilities. Finally, we will address the questions tabled by the members, which are attached to the debate. Any colleague present will have the opportunity to speak. Together with my colleague Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs, we will try to organise the work as best we can so that everyone can receive information and ask questions on the file. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u2	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many questions have been raised about the recent reports that have revealed the long-standing problem of the delay in dealing with applications for disability benefits and the poor telephone accessibility of DG Han. I will give you a full overview of how we wish to solve the problems outlined in the short and longer term. For the exchange of views, I will give the floor to the Federal Internal Audit Service and DG Han, so that all elements can be addressed in full transparency. This can be done in a positive way, so that we can meet certain challenges properly. I shall first briefly outline the current situation and indicate what initial actions I have taken along with those of my predecessor to address the problems. Following my introduction, the Federal Internal Audit Service will take the floor to explain a number of findings and, above all, a series of recommendations. Then I will explain the action plan which deals with the recommendations but also goes further in other areas. Next, DG Han will be given the floor to explain in more detail the implementation of the Action Plan. Since the transfer of competence for people with disabilities, I have tried to get a clear picture of the causes of the long-standing complaints about the operation of DG Han, the Directorate-General for Social Security, who manages the federal allowance for persons with disabilities and the parking cards. I share in all transparency what I have found and how we can continue to deal with this. I must honestly say that certain figures and statements that have been made in contributions of opinion and press articles are not correct. The treatment period for dossiers requiring medical examination has now fallen below six months. It now stands at 4.9 months, even though there are large differences between regions. Fifty-eight percent of the parking tickets are now delivered within three months. That was ten percent less six months ago. The total stock of files IVT and IT with a medical application is currently 28 000. In July the figure was 37 000. Online questions are followed up, with an answer within 10 days in 94% of the cases. These figures show that progress has been made. This must be taken into account when asking certain questions. However, I do not want the debate to get bogged down in a debate on figures. What no one disputes, not even the service in question, is that the treatment periods are still too long and that telephone access is far from assured. Many people express complaints that they have to wait or not be helped for a very long time. From the day I took over this competence, the rapid handling of the files and the accessibility of services for people with disabilities had therefore to be given the highest priority. Before the Christmas holidays, it had already become clear that it was necessary to give absolute priority to mitigating the consequences of the lack of a budget vote for 2019, which specifically provided for ways to formulate certain solutions. In good agreement with the Minister for the Budget and with the support of the Prime Minister's cabinet, we have found a solution to allow these additional budgets to be drawn out, using the space that could be found within the provisional twelfths. I can assure you that this was not evident. I would like to thank the Minister for the Budget's policy cell. Otherwise, as a result of the political crisis, it would have been impossible to achieve these two things. First of all, there was the bestaffining of telephony. Last year 38 additional full-time equivalents were recruited and appropriations were entered in the draft budget for 2019 to make contracts of indefinite duration and, in addition, 28 new recruitments. The recruitment procedures were started, but the failure to approve the budget meant that neither the extension of temporary workers nor the additional recruitments were provided for. The agreements with the Budget allowed this to continue. The recruitments are ongoing right now. The staff to be recruited will be deployed mainly on the French-speaking side of the call centre. The new staff will receive a very intensive training as a calltaker through a shorter journey of twenty days, so that they can also be effectively employed within the month following recruitment to deal with telephone calls. Secondly, there is the highly outdated ICT system that will no longer be supported from 2023. That is why a first transition to a new system, CURAM, was made under my predecessor. This transition has, as we know, failed, leading to additional delays. The existing Tetra mainframe system was re-enabled and preparations were started for the start-up of a new ICT system. Tetra will no longer be supported as from 2023. No technical adjustment is then possible, so that possible legislative changes or adjustments to the amount of benefit could not be applied. The 2018 budget provided for a preliminary study of this new system. The governance and design of this new system will allow to avoid a repetition of the problems with CURAM. In order to plan this properly, this preliminary study was necessary so that the construction of the new system can start later this year and be completed in good time. For this purpose, the team of ICT experts from DG HAN and Smals worked together to ensure that the system to be developed is operational in practice. I ordered this study to be carried out at the beginning of this year. In addition to the two budgetary decisions, we also had to provide an answer to the audit ordered at the Federal Internal Audit Service. The purpose of this audit was to examine how the file processing could be optimised. The telephony was not part of the scope of the requested audit. The audit resulted in a number of recommendations that will be addressed in our action plan together with the other proposed issues, on which more details will be given in the near future. Before giving the floor to the people in the audit, I would like to stress that, in order to implement this action plan, we have been able to rely on the recommendations of the auditors and on the numerous meetings with DG HAN himself, with the professors who delivered the opinion document, with the National High Council for Persons with Disability and with the trade unions. In addition to the contacts I have had myself, my cabinet has worked intensively with the various actors to arrive at a supported action plan. In order to succeed, it is important that all noses are in the same direction. Before going into the Action Plan, it is very important to have more text and explanation on the content of the audit and its recommendations. If you agree, I would like to give the floor to the auditors themselves who will explain the analysis. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: Thank you, Minister. I ask those who present the audit to come forward and specify what service they are working for.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u3	Dear Commissioners, my name is Ann Schoubs, and I am responsible for the Federal Internal Audit Service. In May 2018, the then Secretary of State, Mrs Demir, asked us to carry out an audit on the processes within DG HAN. We carried out that audit in the period October and November 2018. It was an operational audit. We have defined the scope of the audit on the basis of a number of research questions, mainly aimed at assessing the efficiency and quality of the operational processes. We also analysed the workload of the various parts of DG HAN. For our audit we used interviews and also based on data analyses and analyses of existing documents. In addition to people within the service, we have also spoken with external stakeholders. The research questions within the audit focus mainly on efficiency, on the effectiveness of the processes. Have they been properly decorated and properly managed so that they can ensure the expected service to the citizen? We have also looked at whether the workload distribution within the various parts has been adapted to ensure this expected service. After all, if the resources are not available, there can be no proper service provision. The scope is mainly focused on the administrative file-processing so we have not looked at the aspect of telephony and also at the medical research within the medical centres of expertise. The process that we have studied is therefore, in the first instance, the intake of the file, the preliminary collection within a file, then also the medical examination, whether or not it takes place according to the file, and the postal administration with the calculation and service for the person concerned. Within the medical examination there are several further steps, namely the assignment of a file to a doctor, the actual examination and then possibly a revision of the examination by a doctor within the centres. That's the scope of the audit. The scope of the audit includes several products currently delivered by DG HAN, including the income replacement allowance, the integration meeting, the allowance for assistance to the elderly, the additional family allowances, the parking cards and the social and tax benefits. In total, some thirteen teams are working on all these files within DG HAN nowadays. There are 149 administrative file holders and 62 doctors. On an annual basis, based on the period we have looked at and covered for a year, 414,000 files are dealt with, of which 169 000 files go through all the steps, including the medical ones. What findings have we made during the audit? We have divided them into three categories: management and follow-up, organisational level and process management. We see that today there are no clear and objective objectives in terms of management and follow-up for the services to be provided by DG HAN on the basis of customer expectations. Today, the organisation starts from its own ability and internal action rather than looking outside, at what the customer actually expects and what services should be insured: for example, is a customer satisfied that he gets an answer after four or five months, after two days, after a week? So one looks too little outside and stays too much inside one's own organization. A very large number of indicators have been defined, which are contained within a management cockpit, but they are measured only partially and not always, sometimes also because there is no data in the current systems to measure the indicators properly. The indicators are not built into a cascade today either, so there is no follow-up from strategic to operational and process indicators, so that one cannot adjust when certain indicators are not met. Standards on, for example, handling a file within a certain time are also not laid down. At operational level, this is, of course, partly due to the systems, there is too little management information available today, for example in the operational authorities responsible for the execution and follow-up of the dossier process, which prevents them from properly monitoring and adjusting the process. No regular standard reporting is available with all the detailed information on the management of applications and the different processes currently running within DG Han. In the organisation field, DG HAN works mainly on the basis of self-directing teams. That is a good principle, but the implementation of this form of organisation is not enough on the ground. The fact that one works in a self-directing team does not mean that there should be no clear objectives and quality criteria that the team should strive for. Today, the team has no clear objectives or quality criteria to work on. There is also no internal monitoring within the team, also because there are sometimes too few data. As a result, they do not adjust within the team, so that a certain number of files can be dealt with within a certain period of time. The competence mix that exists today within the teams is not always tailored to the performance of the tasks. Within the team, therefore, not all competences are always sufficient to be able to handle the files properly. As far as central support and coordination are concerned, we see that this is rather limited today. There are currently not so many resources available to ensure that the functioning of the teams can be further supported and that more direction and coaching can be given to make these self-directing teams work in a good way. We also see that the role of the team facilitator is not fully clear today. That person must lead a team, but does not know exactly what his role and his powers are and what he can or cannot impose on the teams. As far as process control is concerned, we can see that today there is a wide variety in the lead time of a file, depending both on the product and on the basic team handling the file. We also see that there is a wide variety in the editing time of the files according to the team. This is mainly linked to the availability, capacity and number of files to be dealt with within a team. There is also no continuous view of the number of files in the pipeline, along with their status. It is therefore difficult to see where bottlenecks are in the process and where action is needed to improve and accelerate the flow of the files. There is generally no global approach to continuous process and information improvement. This is partly due to the lack of insight into what is happening within the process, which means that that information is missing today, but it is not really measured. The culture and organisation today are not aimed at measuring and adjusting within a process on the basis of what is determined. There is no uniform management of the pre-collection of administrative and medical data, which implies the risk that, in the processing and calculation of the work, the final step, in other words, sometimes the work carried out earlier, will have to be re-organised in the process, which is detrimental to the passage time of certain files. There are no clear guidelines in the field of medical examination. We see that files are being processed on a piece-by-piece basis, i.e. on the basis of documents, and other files are being dealt with by the person himself, in order to conduct an investigation, but there are no clear guidelines on which files exactly should be done on a piece-by-piece basis or through an investigation. We generally see that there are a number of IT issues that make file management difficult today. There is the Tetra application itself, which is already an old application and which is now looking at a possible replacement of the application. There are a number of interfaces at the Crossroads Bank, the National Register, BTAX and Fedopress which do not always work well and which are not always set up efficiently. That means that people often have to look for the right information. Sometimes they even need to contact the FPS Finance to get the right figures. This is, in turn, detrimental to the lead time because it is then necessary to wait for additional correct information. I come now to the recommendations we are making. It concerns, on the one hand, the definition of clear objectives and objectives based on customer expectations. So look outside and define the objectives internally within the organisation. On the basis of what comes out of it, a clear calculation can be made of the exact need for staff and resources. This must also be followed up within the management reporting so that it is something that lives within the organisation. Translate the objectives and objectives to each base team as well. Then each base team will know specifically what it has to work on and what the target is. It is also necessary to try to define standards of quality and operational performance which give a directive to the various employees within the service. For example, they know what standard they should work according to and what an acceptable time it is to spend on a dossier. We believe that it is also useful to further refine and improve administrative and medical procedures, especially in order to avoid rework and to ensure equal treatment in the files. A uniform medical research policy with quality criteria must be developed so that it is clear which dossiers should be done effectively on a piece-by-piece basis and where medical research is needed. The functioning of the self-directing teams needs to be clarified as well as the role of the team facilitator so that the self-directing team can work optimally. It is also necessary to provide for the necessary reporting at operational and management level in order to ensure follow-up and adjustment. For example, the status of all open applications per product and per process step would be useful information to improve the flow of files. Furthermore, the necessary monitoring of the various IT issues must be carried out. They need to be clearly identified in order to be able to remedy them, especially in anticipation of the new solution that will come forward in the future. There are simple things that can be done within the IT process that one is also working on in the meantime. They can already support and improve the functioning of the service. Those were the conclusions of our audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the people of the audit, not only for the explanatory statement, but also for carrying out the audit and making a number of recommendations. This brings us to the action plan. If we listen to the audit, there are a number of problems in operation that we can address thanks to the recommendations. Because the scope of the audit was limited to file processing, we also had to provide for other actions. In total, this results in nine action domains. We have also set miles and deadlines for this, so that it does not remain vague intentions, but hard commitments that are also followed. More about that in a moment. All actions in the plan support the achievement of two key objectives, the first external and the second internal. The first objective is to achieve and agree on results, not only at DG level as a whole, but also with the basic teams. What is expected of everyone and what tools and powers he or she has to fulfil those expectations must be clearly defined. Good deals make good friends, we already know that. At DG level, we wish to achieve the following objectives between 1 January and 1 May. We assume that these objectives will also be achieved. The amount of files IVT and IT in medical examination should be reduced from 28 000 to 25 000. The amount of files IVT and IT in treatment without medical examination should decrease from 7 700 to 6 700. The percentage of files completed within six months should increase from 67 % to 74 %. The percentage of parking tickets delivered within three months should increase from 58 % to 66 %. The number of phones recorded should double from 780 to 1 500. This is about the number of unique callers per day, so that basically everyone can be helped. The objectives, as you can see, are very precise. However, they are also realistic. In my opinion, they are sufficiently ambitious, because we are talking about a short term, namely until 1 May 2019, and we still have to catch up with the past. Of course, our explicit ambition is much higher. However, this requires additional structural solutions. I'll get back to you. In addition to quantified objectives, the audit shows that support for management can and can help to address problems in internal operation. This will ensure that Lean's principles of work and quality work can be fully incorporated and lead to a powerful organisation. What we will do is one thing. The way is another matter. The three principles lead us in our approach. Firstly, everyone must be aware of the need for continuous improvement. You know that the Japanese production processes talk about kaizen. Small improvements in the process and product are constantly being sought. Let me give you a concrete example of this. The action plan includes the split-up of telephony. Now that there is sufficient capacity on the Dutch-speaking side, the French-speaking people do not have to block the Dutch-speaking waiting in the queue. A simple technical split of the lines allows us to make the most of the capacity and help people on the phone faster. Once recruitment is completed, we can also reduce waiting lists on the French-speaking side. This is therefore an example of continuous improvement, which can easily be achieved by dividing the lines. Secondly, we want to involve all stakeholders. This is primarily about the people with disabilities and the staff of DG HAN. They make daily dedicated efforts to improve services. We expect additional improvements from them. We trust, however, that they will be able to handle them. Thirdly, we do not want to just decide on the action plan and then forget it. For this reason, we have developed a table of key indicators, which can be followed from month to month. As you know, a lot of action plans are unfortunately getting bogged down when they are not followed up properly. The previous action plan did not include deadlines and milestones. This is now explicitly provided for in the plan. By agreeing very concretely on what progress and what actions we expect by when, we can monitor progress and intervene or adjust if necessary. The first element of the Action Plan is the implementation of the internal audit recommendations. A number of components aim to support internal operation by strengthening management capacity in the areas of business information, quality management and legal support. New recruitments within the 28 new FTE are planned for this purpose. Other elements are mainly about getting the expectations and roles of all employees, the basic teams and their assignments clearer. In this way, the objectives will be formulated at every level and in a way that is also objective and verifiable. In addition, there are also very operational adjustments such as the reduction of the list of open files. Finally, we also refine the ICT applications to meet customer needs and facilitate internal operation. All these points will be explained in more detail by DG Han. Secondly, the strengthening of telephone availability is, of course, a priority. As has already been said, by recruiting additional calltakers by May, we want to achieve the target of 1 500 phones recorded per day. Already now we will split telephone lines into Dutch and French in order to make maximum use of the capacity available for each language. Thirdly, we will replace the IT mainframe system by 2023. The first step is a preliminary study to be launched shortly. The development of the new system will have to start this year. This will require additional resources later this year. Fourthly, a number of problems arise because standard documents and letters have been drawn up in an inappropriate language. Moreover, documents are difficult to adapt to changing situations. We are therefore fully reviewing the way in which these documents are adapted. This year we are modernising a number of type documents. Fifth, we also adapt the online contact forms and make them more user-friendly. Sixthly, in the FINTO building, in addition to the central service, there is also the Brussels office where sometimes long queues are held. We will increase capacity there and increase opening hours. There will also be another access to improve services. Seventh, the My Handicap tool allows people with disabilities and institutions such as health insurance funds and OCMWs to perform a number of tasks themselves. We will simplify this and add additional applications to this platform that improve user-friendliness. Eighthly, cooperation with local entities and health insurance funds is going well today, but it is necessary to discuss with them the practical handling of the dossiers. In this context, I would like to say that the quality of the applications for the files submitted by the sickness funds is very high. This is now six out of ten applications. Add to this qualitative effect the wide spread of the sickness funds and the regular contacts they already have with the many people with disabilities and it is clear that in future, more than today, the sickness funds can become a structural partner of DG HAN. I would like to start the reflection exercise in order to set up in-depth structural cooperation with the sickness funds for a number of tasks in the front. This will improve both the quality and speed of services. Finally, we must acknowledge that a great deal of delay is caused by the lack of doctors. It is very difficult for the government to find doctors for such functions. The ageing population of still working government doctors makes this problem even more acute and larger. The next government will have to decide whether it will release more resources to be competitive on the labour market for doctors, or change the procedure and deploy nurses who will prepare medical assessments under the supervision of a doctor. The framework, the multidisciplinary teams, is already provided for in the implementing acts of the IVT legislation. So far, the explanatory statement to the action plan. I would now like to give the floor to DG HAN to clarify matters more specifically, because I think it is very important that not only the Minister and the people who drew up that action plan, but also that there is a clear commitment from the executive official, who explains a number of things more concretely but at the same time also makes it clear that this is a realistic, ambitious and also feasible action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u5	Minister, you asked us to be concrete. That is what we have tried to do in our commitments: concrete and realistic commitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u6	Can you introduce yourself, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u7	I am André Gubbels, Director General of the Social Security FPS. We summarize our concrete commitments with five objectives at the general level. In terms of percentages, we started an action plan in June 2018 and we expect, until May 2019 – these are incremental improvements: - to reduce by 30% the number of applications for treatment in respect of applications for allowances with medical examination; - to reduce the number of applications for administrative review by 40 %; - to reduce by 20 % the number of cases which are decided beyond a period of six months; - to reduce by 19 % the number of parking cards processed beyond a period of three months; - increase the number of telephones taken by 75%. These are concrete and realistic commitments because as far as the first commitment is concerned, we are in December and you see that we have already achieved a good part of the road. We are in a period of gradual reduction in delays and we are continuing to put in place an action plan to reduce delays. That is an objective that we are pursuing. It is realistic and a large part of the effort has already been made. As far as the second objective is concerned, we are more or less in the same trend. We have significantly reduced the number of files processed for administrative review. We will continue this deadline. The decrease is less important because we are almost up to date. We can't go any faster. We will arrive in May in a rather favourable situation. With regard to the reduction in the time taken to process cases, I would like to highlight the fact that we are faced with large regional differences. We have twelve teams and you see the difference in performance in these teams. We are gradually narrowing the gap. We have teams that have no delays in processing files and others that are more late. The reasons were also set out in the federal audit and we are actually trying – and you see that we are getting there gradually – to narrow the treatment gap between the teams. It's obviously the same for parking cards. We have taken steps to speed up the processing of parking cards and we believe that we can move forward very quickly to narrow the gap between the teams. As has been said, the gaps are related to a different distribution of skills, staff and medical capacity. The most ambitious objective that will require a very important effort is the telephone. You can see that our telephone performance did not really improve between June and December. The main reason is that we have asked people to focus on file processing. Here, we plan, as the minister mentioned, to double the telephone capacity in the next three months, with "preconditions". The first is to have extra staff. The minister has confirmed that we will have some. In fact, we have already anticipated recruitment. At the 15th of this month, we have 5 people who joined the team for the phone. We have 8 who will join us on February 15 and we will complete the recruitments on April 30, 2019. As the minister mentioned, we have a 20-day training plan that is already in place with the 5 people. When we anticipate the incremental capacity increase, we plan to arrive on May 1, 2019 at a capacity of 1,500 calls, with this significant difference that Mr. Peeters mentioned, is that the problem is essentially at the Francophone level. We receive twice as many French-speaking calls as Dutch-speaking ones, for reasons related to the fact that we also continue to manage files for Wallonia, while some of the files were taken over by Flanders as well. That's what we're aiming for. We were also asked to be very concrete in the action plan and to put it under a precise timetable with precise and extremely realistic dates. I'll sum it up so you don't take over all the actions. For each action taken on this timetable, we were asked to determine the main steps and above all when something concrete was going to be achieved. You have in red some of the actions that follow the audit recommendations. You also have in yellow the replacement of the computer system. You have in fact all these actions that we have committed ourselves to implement while respecting a precise timetable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u8	Mr President, Madam President, we have received a lot of questions, but we have already given some answers. It is now up to you to organize the debate. Evita Willaert, President: I will now first give the floor to the Members who have tabled a question in order, then anyone who wishes can ask further questions or comment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u9	Madam President, first of all, I have a practical question. Can we get the presentations forwarded? They can give us a great deal of information and give us the opportunity to follow up. That seems to me to be necessary in this respect, even in the long term. I did indeed put a question to you. It was based on the report of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities and dealt with the problems listed therein and the Ombudsman's observations, which he made several years after each other. I find it hallucinating for a country such as Belgium that the problem of a distressing situation has led to the weakest in our society for many years now. I find it hallucinating that the most vulnerable have remained in the cold for so long and have not been given what they are entitled to. Anyway, I take note of your good intentions, Minister. I have a number of questions to ask. Firstly, in relation to staff, you state that by means of budgetary techniques there is the possibility of retaining the 38 employees employed. That is a first good news, because we feared the opposite. In fact, 28 additional employees will be employed. I note, however, that in view of a number of actions previously announced by Mrs Demir, 100 staff are actually needed in the long term. Is that still the case, or did you abandon it? If indeed more than those 38 + 28 employees are needed, how long will they be employed? Secondly, I heard you say that there is provision for short-term training. How long will this abbreviated training take? Is there still a permanent formation on that? With a rapid increase in the number of staff in the short term, we will be nothing if these staff do not have the necessary competences. I'm a little worried about that. Furthermore, I find it hallucinating that I have been saying for some time now, and I am certainly not just saying that it seems that the first thing is to take account of itself and, therefore, is primarily concerned with its own administration, according to Mrs Schoubs' statement, which carried out the audit. Staff therefore rely on the operation of the service and not on the interest of the customer. I do not hear a direct answer to this in the points of improvement and objectives. However, I think that is one of the most important comments in the audit. In fact, we didn't even need an audit for that, because whoever follows the file regularly notices that defect. I haven't heard an answer to it, or am I mistaken and have I listened badly? My next question is about telephony. Minister, I can now hear you explain that a simple technical split-up can deal with almost a double number of telephone calls. Excuse me for my unusual vocabulary, but damn it, why haven't we done that before, please? Are you serious? Why hasn't that happened before? I think that too is really hallucinating. A further question concerns the treatment of regionalised powers, such as compensation for pensioners and increased family allowances. Given that these powers have been regionalised, how is it that the Directorate-General still has to take action in this area? Is there an action in the pipeline so that it doesn't have to happen anymore? First of all, it seems to me that it is no longer the task of the federal level, given the regionalisation. Secondly, it only makes things unnecessarily more complicated, both for the customers, who have to stand first and for the officials. Are the short-term objectives really supported by the services? According to Mr Gubbels, that is the case, I understand. Why wasn't that the case in the past, Mr Gubbels, and now suddenly it is? I assume that the improved areas have been created in consultation with you and the people who run the teams. If that is the case, then these objectives could indeed be carried out and achieved, but, once again, why, like the telephone solution, did they not come sooner? You praise the work of the sickness funds, Minister. I'll give you my full support. You say the quality of the work is good. If I understand correctly, will the health insurance funds be used even more, but have they already been consulted on this? Can they handle it? Doesn't that mean that the Directorate-General doesn't transfer cases to the sickness funds? I would like to be certain of that. Are these tasks just gonna get over it? Are they imposed on health insurance funds? I would like to know what they say about that themselves. I would also point out that attracting doctors is a problem. We see the same problem in health insurance. A structural solution to this would seem to take you over the legislature. We must, of course, also think in the long term here, but I heard you put forward two different possibilities, namely trying to get to doctors somehow, or using nurses. What is your view on this? I would also like to hear the Director-General's view on this. If not, an approach to this issue will be put in the air, and we will see what it is going to be. I hear that there is a desire to eliminate regional differences in treatment periods, but I would like to know the basic reasons for this. How is it that there are such large differences in treatment periods between regions? In short, I would like to believe your good proponents to address a problem that we have been struggling with for so long, but I would like to get some more explanation about it. I come to my final point. We have tabled a legislative proposal on the problem of delays in medical check-ups and revisions. We try to fit a sleeve so that people are no longer the victims. Now an allowance is changed only after the medical review, while people were often entitled to it months before, just because the medical check-up did not happen in time. I had asked the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to add that bill to the committee's agenda, but that was refused for a reason that I am not entirely clear. I would like to ask the two Presidents who are here once again whether we cannot deal with this proposal in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u10	Madam President, I too would like to thank the Minister for his general presentation, the presentation of the action plan, and the speakers who have given us a great deal of information. This material is dense and we want to be able to reread this information, all these figures and rested head elements. Some of the paintings were very complex. The policy of processing cases for people with disabilities has been in the spotlight since the beginning of 2019. In itself, it is good to talk about it more than usual. It is also an opportunity to move things forward. Since the beginning of the year, we have had an interesting and fruitful exchange of views with the College of Federal Mediators on two specific points. I'll come back. I would point out that the full record of these discussions will be on the House's website tomorrow. Speakers were given the opportunity to read and make possible corrections, but this will be very soon available to everyone. We then had the opportunity in the Committee on the Economy to vote on Mrs Lanjri et al.'s bill on the retroactivity of the social energy tariff. Therefore, some issues are discussed and it is quite possible to move forward, which in itself is a good thing. I refer to my intervention in these two dossiers (exchange of views with the mediators and social energy tariff) to indicate the causes of the problems encountered for at least two years. There are three elements. I will of course go back to the 1987 law. I repeat myself, but this is an opportunity to do so because we are at the end of the legislature and we have a debate on the matter. The first point is the linear savings imposed on all departments, including DGPH. I'll go back. The second element is the implementation of the sixth reform of the State and the transfer of staff to the Regions and the Communities. The third point is this Tetra-Curam software problem that caused a blockage and made things much more complicated. Before I go back to these three elements, I want to say or say again about linear savings that one thing is to have a savings of 2% over one or two years on all administrative, personnel, operating or what I know. However, if these savings continue over four, five, six, seven years, there are cumulative savings of -12, -14%. We regretted, criticized and criticized it every year during the discussions on the policy notes. In fact, it is one thing for the departments to make economic efforts, but here it is necessary to do so on the basis of needs, taking into account the increase in the number of cases, taking account of this transfer to the Regions and the Communities and its impact on the operational aspect, on the recruitment of new staff, on its training, etc., on the history also because not all the departments had the same way of operating at the outset. What is linear is blind and what is blind leads to problems that have accumulated and have become complicated over time. I wanted to remind him because it seems important to me. Finally, on the one hand, there was these savings of -2% and, last year, there was a recruitment of 38 new collaborators to the DGPH, I think. This year, we are talking about about twenty (between 20 and 28). I will come back to that, but that means that the linear economy did not have to be. We realize, over time, that there are no longer enough people to handle the files and that we no longer answer the phone, etc. This is still one of the root causes of the problem that I want to point out in this exchange of views. With regard to the transfer of staff to the Regions and Communities, I would like to ask the Director General or the Minister where we are in this Parliament on this subject again. How many officials were transferred? To which regions and communities? What is the level of autonomy of the Regions and the Communities? We quickly saw him in the slideshow. There is still medical expertise for Flanders, as I understand it. How do we live with Wallonia and Brussels? What has been the impact of this transfer of skills, but also of experienced officials and this reorganization with new staff that needs to be trained? As far as software is concerned, we're back to the old one. We've often talked about it in committee. There were topical questions to Mrs Sleurs first, then to Mrs Demir. We have done a good job of taking stock of the development of this issue. How do things evolve at the computer level? As you said, minister, this is an area with such a complex law that requires so many applications and sometimes changes over time that it requires a powerful, reliable, credible, well-designed computer system. Anyway, there's an investment to make. If I understand what you're saying, you're telling us that you've commissioned a study on this investment. There will be a call for tenders that will take time. It will also need to be reviewed by experts. Does the Personnel and Organization (P&O) FPS also assist in this area? I don't know. In this way, we could have an investment that will, in the years to come, make it possible to achieve something that is functional, in order to avoid what we have known in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my first reflection on the causes of the problems we are experiencing today. I come to the 1987 law. The latest opinion of the Supreme Council of Persons with Disabilities of 22 January points again to the fact that this law requires a revision, reform, updating and updating of the United Nations Convention. I think there is not a single year in which I will not have argued for such a review, either in the policy briefs of the two Secretaries of State or in the policy briefs. This did not happen in the course of the legislature. Let us be honest that this will not happen either by the time the chambers are dissolved. I would like to recall that the basis was a consultation of persons with disabilities and the sector itself, who were asked what their needs and demands were. They are awaiting an update in this direction. I hope that this theme will have its place in the weeks and months to come, and also in the near legislature. That being said, this law is not only old - we sometimes have other laws that are old - but it has mostly been complicated over time by a series of royal decrees that have organized new controls and other new elements. The implementation of the law has been increasingly complex, for staff, but also for beneficiaries, those who introduce files. In the same way, the computer system is finally out of date. My question is specific and relates to the average processing times for cases. We talked about it and I'm going to go back. Mr. Director General, could you provide us with a historical view since the creation of the Act? One can have a vision spanning thirty, twenty, ten or five years. I remember that for more than 20 years, parliamentary questions were regularly asked about the processing times of cases. Sometimes there were different results by linguistic role. There were more public servants in this or that role. This has fluctuated. However, in recent years, electronic data has been exchanged between all federal departments, saving time in processing time. My own understanding of this time line regarding the duration of treatment is as follows. Tetra-Curam problems related to staff shortage have created a peak since 2017-2018 in the duration of treatment. Are you telling us that the situation is improving? I hear it, but today, what is the average duration of treatment per linguistic role? Indeed, we have recruited more from the Dutch-speaking side. We must now recruit from the French-speaking side. What is the average duration of treatment per language role today? Have we returned below six months, as provided for in the Social Insurance Charter? I believe that before these computer problems, the state paid almost no more periodic penalty payments for the days of delay. If my memory is good, last year, 2 million euros were again budgeted for 2018 or 2019 for late interest for the beneficiaries. It's not a solution. We must therefore try to return, for all cases, to less than six months. I think the average was four months before the current problems. There is a backlog of files; 15,000 files enter monthly. What is the backlog today? You gave a few numbers. Could you clarify these two figures for the sake of clarity of the debate? Questions arise about the operation, organization, including the telephone or electronic reception of applicants, recipients or individuals who process the files. The work of social workers is very important. They are people who need to be explained to them and answered in a decentralized way throughout the country. That requires resources. Linear savings have resulted in the refocusing of priorities due to a lack of sufficient staff. I have said this several times in committee: for me, the priority is that the files be dealt with. This is priority number one: reduce the duration of treatment. But it's not about leaving people unanswered either. I hope that the recruitment now announced will, in the short term, make telephone response rates more acceptable than they are today. In any case, it is important to be able to respond to applicants and individuals who have ongoing files. As a matter of fact, one in two complaints relates to medical expertise. A study is under way. I don't know if you can tell us a word, to harmonize and improve medical assessment. This is, in any case, one of the points of the reform that must be considered, outside the law. It's more of an operational aspect. What about improving and harmonizing medical assessment? There must be sufficient medical experts throughout the country in the twelve or thirteen territories you have mentioned. The age pyramid shows that many of them will leave the administration in the years to come. This can only make the problem more difficult. In the absence of medical expertise, there can be no decision and there will be other difficulties. What are the prospects for recruitment, given the emerging shortage? Are there regional or subregional differences in medical expertise? As far as recruitment is concerned, we spoke about it for the last time during the discussion of the policy note presented by Mrs Demir, who is with us at the moment, last November. It had announced a budget of €2.5 million to recruit 28 people. I do not know if these figures are maintained. Since then, the government has fallen. Let us not blame the opposition for the fact that the budget has not been voted on! It's not his responsibility. If I understand correctly, minister, you've unlocked the situation. I'd like you to recite the amount and inform us about the timing of recruitment until the end of April. I don't forget the need for training. All this takes time, but this illustrates the fact that the annual savings of 2 per cent for staff were untenable in this department, which has to deal with many cases involving families. As far as the staff of the DGPH are concerned, I appreciated the letter sent to him by the Higher Council, represented here by its President and Secretary. The academicians had previously sent a letter, then commented in the press. We also know that social networks carry the best and the worst. However, it is not because no one is answering the telephone that the grievors are not doing their job. It's important to say it again. During a service visit, we learned that staff were under pressure from the number of files and from the discontented people. This situation must therefore be managed. Recruitments carried out in 2018 have, of course, improved somewhat. In any case, it should be recalled that the members of the HPD are not involved in the problem raised, as they are carrying out their mission. I would therefore like you to tell me about the state of mind within the DG. I think members are motivated, despite the difficult context. However, the Conseil Supérieur wanted to make it clear in its letter that they were not concerned with this subject. The retroactivity of certain decisions was discussed. Tomorrow, in plenary, we will be able to pass a bill to deal with this problem. Mrs Jiroflée, you are right: we must take into account the question of medical reviews when they are in favour. This is on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee. I therefore turn to my colleague, hoping that this dossier can be placed on the agenda, as long as - in terms of quick win - it can be resolved before the end of the legislature. It goes without saying that our group will support your proposal. After that, the Conseil Supérieur also sent an opinion on 22 January on a series of elements concerning the policy on persons with disabilities under this legislature. I'm not developing it now. This will be the subject of another question on my part, but there are other points that arise than those that have just been raised. I will conclude my speech by going back to the 1987 Act. I hope that this will be discussed in the coming months. It will be a subject of political commitment for the next legislature: to think together about updating and simplifying the law, with a view to making life easier for everyone, starting with that of the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u11	I shall now take the floor myself. Mr Minister, after the auditor's report, I can only speak about a truly destructive report. As Mrs Jiroflée pointed out, it is something we have all felt for a long time. For me personally it is very hard to hear and see it again in black and white. There are no clear objectives for the provision of services. The starting point is to act on its own. There's not enough outside looking. The self-directing teams can indeed be fantastic in terms of workable work, but they should not simply be left to their own devices. It's really in our face, as it's said in English, and really hard to hear things like that again. On the other hand, it is also good that the audit has been carried out and that we can move forward with it. I have the impression that there is a lot to read between the lines about how things could have gotten this far. I cannot put my finger on it, but there were three political leaders in one legislature. There is now the short-term action plan, which feels wrong. I would just like to say that this is about people with disabilities. These are people who not only have the bad luck or, in a positive way, the challenge in their lives to deal with their disability, which most of us do not have. At the same time, however, in our country, they are also disproportionately confronted with more poverty, with benefits that are too low and with high costs, which means that the water is on their lips. Moreover, there is a context in which the treatment periods for social security are quite long and are much exceeded. That's intense. That is the context in which we find ourselves and the way we have been dealing with those involved in our society for many years now. That's very harsh. That too is very harsh. The action plan is there, which is very good. Like Mrs Jiroflée, however, I believe that I will put it in English again, but it is not rocket science to establish that telephone lines between the Dutch and French speakers are being separated and that this separation is already a solution. That sounds like a quick win to me. Nor do I understand why it must take so long to reach that conclusion and implement it. I can imagine that there have been such quick wins, which have probably been stuck in a desk drawer or stuck in someone's head. However, this is not about rocket science. It is simply a basic service of a society that we should be able to provide. I am convinced that it can be done better at the service itself, but if one looks inside, I also wonder whether the way in which we have been working on the service for years is not a survival strategy, so I agree with Mr Delizée because the water is very often on the lips. This action plan is here now. I wonder to what extent it was worn and consulted with the staff? Do these people still have courage? I hope so. I hope that this can give new energy to deal with it. I can imagine that there is a certain defeatism that has led to an ever-increasing look inside and that one has taken oneself as a starting point and not the people for whom the service is intended. I think we should be careful, too. If new people join us, where will they end up? What kind of atmosphere is there? What colleagues are there? They must also be trained, of course, but I can imagine the need for a new schwung. How is it going to be achieved? That's about more than operational processes. That is also about atmosphere and workable work. I can imagine that sometimes when the water is on the lips, the courage is far away. This can also be an important work point in the following months. Many questions have been answered, of course, because we are already a few weeks away. There is the action plan, and the audit that was very interesting. I still have a few specific questions. In the past, statistics were available on the website. They're gone. Do they come back on the website so that control is possible? I had a lot of questions about specific numbers. On Thursday, people can register physically with DG HAN. We read in the open letter from the professors that there would be an unofficial quota of sixty people. How are we going to do that? After all, it is absurd that people take the trouble to go there and are no longer mentioned as number 61, 62 or 63 or further. I suppose you included this in the plan, too. What's going to happen to the people who physically report to the reception? What are the figures for the last few months of the number of calls and the number of unanswered calls, split into busy tone, interrupted communication, the message "all our operators are busy," the number of online contact requests, the number of online contact requests processed. I understand from Minister Peeters that this would not be so bad, but I would like to hear specific figures. I would have liked to have known this also for the people who applied physically at the reception and for the people who were effectively welcomed and helped. What are the number of outstanding contact requests and their deadlines and what are the average processing times for dossiers per region? I was just talking about quick wins. It may be naive, but I've tried to go to My Handicap myself on the Internet in several ways, through different entrance gates. Often one gets "send an e-mail," but when one clicks on it, one always finds out on the contact form. As an ordinary citizen, courage would immediately sink into my hands if I came out of it. One then needs an eID card reader or a token or password. I think that's a huge threshold to be able to get into a government service. I find it absurd that there is not just a telephone number to which one can call, possibly with an answering machine where one can leave something, and that there is not just an email address to which one can send an email, to get more explanation. It may be naive of me to say this, and this is separate from all the things that have already been said, but I do not understand why it has to be so complicated to get in. I really wouldn't like that myself. I'd postpone that because it would discourage me. However, these people have no choice and must pass through. I don't understand why it's so complicated a priori. Normally there is a front office that is very accessible. That it gets complicated after that, that's possible, because it's complicated things. But why does that first gateway have to be so complicated? We now have the action plan in the short term, but we have to think fundamentally about the long term, rather than the long term. How can that be simpler? So that someone can send an email to the service and there may be an answering machine, after which someone will contact the people effectively after a few days. Again, it is about people with disabilities, which digitalisation is not obvious to them. All access routes must be used and as easily accessible as possible. It is not up to the client who needs help and is entitled to it, and who only wants to assert his rights, that it becomes complicated afterwards. So I don't understand why that's complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u12	Madam Chair, thank you all for the presentations. It is not easy for us to follow so much information at once and without paper. It should also be possible to improve the way this commission works – this said without wishing to inspire DG People with Disabilities. I hear that the open letter of the twenty academics is highly criticized. The press reports that these are counter-truths we're going to answer. Apart from the fact that it publicly enlightens internal facts, I believe, however, that this letter has the merit of provoking a debate on this problem, which is unworthy of our country. This debate should have been held here years ago. Ecolo-Groen has long called for solutions, particularly when analysing the policy note. We spoke to Mrs Demir to ask her what she was going to do. The 28 collaborators had been mentioned. This is largely insufficient in relation to the situation. We are therefore pleased that Minister Peeters is finally taking matters into his own hands and that an audit and action plan are put on the table to enable the most fragile people in our society to move forward from this inhuman situation. With regard to the action plan, I have several questions. Already the audit explained the importance for the organization of looking outwards, that it does not remain focused on its navel and takes into account the needs of the first people involved. How did you integrate these needs and user experience? From the website, as my college Evita Willaert explained? From file managers who are in contact with people? A great deal of attention is being paid to making up for the backlog of ongoing cases. Improving telephone accessibility was mentioned. But there is also a need to greatly improve the introduction of new files. A dam has been put in place to prevent the proliferation of new files. There is a real need to shed light on and address these processes, so that new files can flow into the system smoothly and be dealt with quickly. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u13	I'm not finished talking, sir. It would be nice to keep listening to me, thank you! Secondly, I wonder how this action plan can be implemented when there are a lot of internal dysfunctions on the finger. The objectives are of course commendable, but I have the impression that a great deal of work needs to be done before the institution is reorganised. Otherwise, we will never achieve the goals. Moreover, action plans have already been put in place previously, and they have not achieved their objectives. It would be nice not to fall back in the same way. Among these internal dysfunctions, self-management was mentioned, but the organizational chart was not discussed. I would like to obtain this document and to know what the hierarchical structure is. We talked about self-management. I'd like to know your vision of a self-managed organization. Has this self-management system been implemented voluntarily or is it spontaneous self-management, as described by those interviewed in the audit? I come to the question of telework. It is practiced extensively within the institution. This has not been said here, but it appears from information in my possession. I'd like to know how telework is framed, and whether evaluations are taking place. I would like to know how it is explained that there are so many differences in the performance of the different teams. It's quite challenging. There is also a big turnover in the DG's teams. I would like to have figures on that. Turnover does not make work easier, but staff departures sometimes have reasons. Transparency is an element that has been pointed out by the open letter of academics. We discovered this new element here. I would like to know who made the decision not to transmit this information any more. Does this information remain available to teams so that they know where they are in relation to their objectives? I hope that this information will become available again now. There are other transparency issues. For example, the DG's activity report is extremely thin compared to others and contains many images and diagrams. There is no strong desire to transmit information from the DG. I see that there is also a small number war that is taking place around this issue. If we want to talk about numbers, I see that when we talk about phone calls, we talk about those who managed to get into the system. Now, there are a whole series of calls that can't even get into the system. I did the test. As Mrs. Willaert said, when you call, most of the time, you run into a busy signal. These calls don't fit into the system. I'd like to have not two, but three numbers. Last question: Mr. Frank Van Massenhove will retire soon. How do you envisage its replacement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u14	Minister, I would like to put things in context today. I think there is one dimension that we really need to keep in mind, it is the person who is in a situation of disability or the person with a disability. She is at the centre of our concerns. It is she who is the first concerned and she is the victim of this "past" that you have discovered and that existed for a long time. Fortunately, the debate came out on the public square, otherwise we could still ask questions, question and hear the federal mediators who have come back on the subject several times. You have recalled, Mr President, at least one decision to be adopted tomorrow on the social energy tariff. I am still somewhat concerned about this lack of attention to persons with disabilities. It's not a mistake to make remarks, Mr. President. You can read the policy notes for 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018. Each raised this issue. What can be seen? There was a lack of real political will to resolve the problems. There was a shortage of staff and the situation was allowed to deteriorate. In this first intervention, I would like to say that I pay particular attention to those people who are in a difficult, fragile situation and who are simply waiting for their rights. This seems to me to be an approach that we must take into account as parliamentarians. Mr Minister, your staff and the DG explained that, following the audit, the problem would finally be addressed. In view of the document which you have presented to us and which will be included in the report, I have the impression that the problem is now taken up in arms-to-body, with precise rules, guidelines and objectives. We believe that we will then be attentive to the implementation of the findings and recommendations of this audit, which, for me, is equivalent to terms of reference for administration and management, but also for policy and government, to which we will ask the ad hoc questions. I'm a little surprised and I wonder why and how we got there. When I hear about the audit as it is mentioned, I find him assassin. I wanted to ask the listeners what the positive point was, at the end of the day. When you read the entire audit, you have the impression that nothing is right, and it's quite disturbing. The third thing I wanted to discuss with you is the computer system. If, indeed, many problems have been observed, as you mentioned, I believe that a well-functioning computer system is a system designed in consultation with users. Will the user, a DG staff member, receive an answer to the questions he or she is asking in order to be able to process the file and respond to the person who is the client? I assume that our objective (which is also yours) is to guide this computer system in a citizen's way, because it is indeed the citizen who must be best served. In addition to all the questions asked by my colleagues, to which you will reply, I would like some clarification of the action plan. I would like to point out, as you have done, that there are differences in treatment between the regions. There are thirteen teams in the field. How will this gap between the regions be significantly reduced? Whether you live in the north, south, east or west, the treatment is different. Belgians are equal before the law. That's why this difference in treatment seems abnormal to me. Does the business planning include mobile teams to strengthen units that are lagging behind others? In other words, in the event of an emergency, are there any plans to send agents to try to narrow this gap? To take another example, when there is a shortage of staff in a hospital service, mobile teams move so far. I would therefore like to know whether the same will apply to your administration, with a view to supporting the local teams. After this audit and the implementation of the recommendations have been completed, I would like to know whether an accompanying committee - including internal or external staff - has been planned. It is important to be able to follow, week after week, the smooth running of this accompaniment. To this end, indicators of success need to be defined. So, Mr. President, when we meet with the Plan Bureau, we question it by referring to several indicators - GDP, of course, but also new criteria. We have set the target dates for clear targets, but it seems to me that operational indicators need to be developed. Does the administration have a record tracking system in place? Using barcodes, we can track them computerically. This is an exercise of transparency towards the citizen, which seems to be beneficial and could be applied in other services. I know of authorities that deal with town planning permits and who know where the files are stored. In this case, people are waiting for their rights to be respected. They must also be kept informed. On the other hand, I would like to say that I pay a great deal of attention to the administrative staff of the DG, who are probably not well acquainted with the present situation, as well as to the fact that it has been pointed out. But it is a problem of structure, not of people. I imagine it was not very pleasant to be on the phone, to be harassed in this difficult context and to undergo a series of remarks when she was not guilty but rather victim. It is necessary to renew the demand, i.e. to recreate a management of teams, and to instill this team dynamic within the administration. It may exist, but I insist on that. My last question is for you, Minister. You have three months left. I would like you to tell me about how you, as the minister responsible for these responsibilities, are going to work with the Higher Council for the Disabled. It is a real body that has ideas about the organization, can give opinions, make requests, ask for each other. What is your analysis in this regard? These are the few comments I wanted to add following the debate, comments and questions from my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u15	Minister, I would like to turn my question into a written question. There are still some figures missing, and instead of asking them now, I suggest you give them to me in writing. You are only recently competent for the Department of Persons with Disabilities, a department with some problems and no nice legacy. There have been problems there for years, apart from the minister responsible for them. However, efforts are being made to improve working conditions. I also wish you every success, of course, in your efforts to make things right in this short period of time. I hope you will be able to improve a number of things. As a result of the audit, you have drawn up an important action plan in which you make very concrete proposals that you want to implement within a year. Can we get the PowerPoint presentation with us? After all, there are a lot of useful figures in it. I also saw on the slides certain targets, increases by 20 % and 40 %, a progress of 75 % and a reduction in the problems. Where did you get those numbers? For one aspect I see 20 % and for the other 19 %. Why is that 20 % and not 80 %? Why is it 19 % and not 20 %? I understand that they are targets, but is there any reasoning behind the fact that you only want to make 19 percent progress and not 20 percent? I would also like to comment on the telephone accessibility. You put an improvement of 75% first. You want 1 500 telephone calls a day by May. What does that mean, however, in concrete terms? At the moment there are about 200 000 calls every month that are not answered. If there is an improvement of 75%, how many people will still not get in? Can you answer in absolute numbers? If today there are two hundred thousand a month, how many will there be in the case of an improvement of 75%? Are there still thousands of them? What is needed to answer all phones as much as possible, even though I understand that this can never be at 100 %, with no one sneaking between the meshes of the net anymore? When can you achieve this objective? What do you need, personnel and resources? I also see a difference between the provinces in the handling of the files. That is what I have been keeping up with from our work visit to DG HAN. What's with the big differences? It is not possible for people in East and West Flanders to have fewer disabled people. Or do they have more staff there? Or do the West Flemish people effectively work so much more efficiently than Antwerp or Liège? You will employ new people. Of course, they still have to be trained. When will they be fully operational? Tomorrow, my proposal on the allocation of the social tariff for gas and electricity will be finally adopted in plenary. It was unanimously approved by the Committee on Business two weeks ago. I am very pleased with this, all the more so because people with disabilities can now receive the social tariff for gas and electricity retroactively. Up to now, however, they have received their benefits with retroactive effect once they have received their recognition from DG HAN, which sometimes lasts a year before a decision is taken, but this was not the case for the associated social tariff for gas and electricity. So now that is changing, which I very much welcome. Minister, the bill in question was adopted two weeks ago. Have you already consulted with the Energy Administration so that everything is ready to introduce it as soon as possible? Can you give me an update on that? There are many new projects for people with disabilities with subsequent personal funding, including the joint support for people with disabilities living together. Well, I have been informed that people living together with disabilities are losing their individual right to the social tariff for gas and electricity. This doesn't seem very logical to me, especially since it's going to be living together with a disability. I hope we don't need another bill. Can you ensure that the social tariff for gas and electricity applies to those target groups, i.e. those living together with disabilities? The same applies to persons with an income replacement allowance (IVT) or integration allowance (IT). If a number of disabled people, for example with ten or five, live together, you must ensure that they do not reduce their benefits, but a solution will require more work in this area. I also have a question about My Handicap. You have said that there will be a new application with a view to simplifying the system and thus improving the provision of services. That is good, especially for intermediaries, health insurance funds and other organisations that help people with disabilities. But I am on Mrs Willaert's line with this, and can people with disabilities themselves get along with the My Handicap system and the website in general? Is the tool sufficiently accessible? Can we not lower the threshold anymore? Today many people are asking for help by telephone, precisely because they do not seem to be helped in any other way. In principle, they should be encouraged to consult and possibly complete their files themselves or with the help of a third party via the website. As far as possible, this should be tried. That is why it is necessary to reduce this threshold. At least the system needs to be simplified. If someone has to use 100-and-a-passwords and forget them, they won't get in. I am not disabled, but I have the same problem: with many access codes and all kinds of detours one often gives up the courage. In addition, if it does not work, we should be able to request assistance by e-mail. For example, the services can respond at a time without telephones, or other people can. Can't do all that, the customer needs help on the phone. Finally, there is the possibility that people will actually go to the service if calling is too difficult. For me, these four possibilities must be available. The first stage must be as low and accessible as possible for everyone and the second stage must be easily feasible, so that people do not have to call massively or come to Brussels if they do not understand it, because it is all too complicated. Nobody likes to do administration, which is not obvious or pleasant for us either, let alone for people with disabilities. You said, Minister, that you would extend the opening hours of the service. That's a good thing. Now we can do it without an appointment and I think it is good to keep the threshold as low as possible. Perhaps it is possible to introduce the two systems, so that people can come without an appointment, but at fixed times can also come by appointment. If you don't have time to spend an entire afternoon or if you don't want to wait all day, you can come by an appointment. That is also true for people without disabilities, I know from my own experience. In Antwerp, it has also been introduced for services to make agreements, but people can't always do that. So provide both the possibility to make an appointment and, for those who are too difficult, the possibility to come without an appointment, possibly on another day and moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u16	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to thank the speakers for their intervention. I would also like to ask that we be given the PowerPoint that was presented to us. Indeed, we have received a great deal of information at the same time. Having such an instrument could serve as a basis for future questions on the issue. I would like to thank the teachers' collective for denouncing the inaccessibility of the DG People with Disabilities and the impact of malfunctions on the daily lives of vulnerable people with disabilities who have to wait months for social assistance, when they simply do not lose their rights, as a result of late treatment. Many things have already been mentioned by my colleagues and I do not intend to repeat what they have already said. I shall confine myself to making some of their remarks differently. The first step, when a person with a disability contacts the HPD, is the reception. I want to talk about the phone or a written computer medium here. In this matter, things are not at the point. We should almost get into the skin of someone who's disabled. As my colleague said, when you are a "normal" person, everything is already very heavy and complicated when it comes to contacting an institution, etc. We need to put ourselves in the place of people who have a physical or mental problem. There is a need for a complete review of the way in which the media are designed. If we do this work and make life easier for people with disabilities, things will be easier for everyone. As has been mentioned by my colleague, I am very surprised that the question of the use of the language has not been considered for language reasons, but to facilitate access. Today, you have to press a button and wait. If one is directly welcomed by a person who uses the same language as his own, this encourages, it makes you want to continue the process. This aspect is, in my view, important. I would also like to know how you recruit staff in charge of telephone contacts. This aspect also seems essential to me. What are the human qualities of these people? What is their training? What type of training do they receive? Indeed, when you call, you can imagine the smile on the mouth of the person who is at the end of the line. Do you have any selection criteria for this staff in charge of telephone reception? It seems essential to me, too. Let us not talk about the consequences of the sixth reform of the state which has made people now treated differently. You know very well that I am part of the only party that said no to the sixth reform, with all the consequences we know in other areas as well. I also draw attention to the role of CPAS. CPAS are often called upon to intervene in these cases. Indeed, during the processing of the application, some persons with disabilities face serious financial difficulties and they have no alternatives other than to apply to a CPAS who may decide to advance the amounts of allowances. Increasingly, CPAS are being sought in this area. How can you manage this problem and find solutions to make it less burdensome than today? I now turn to the shortage of doctors, which is a truly current theme, especially on the French side, in Wallonia. We are aware of the dispute between Mr.Marcourt and our Minister of Health. It's another problem. The commitment of doctors can solve this problem. There is an effort to make, and perhaps direct consultation with our Minister of Health is needed to find the right solutions. I still wanted to tell you a lot of things, but I think the most important thing has been said. The important thing is to reduce the processing time of files. Minister, you have a lot of work to do! Nevertheless, I am comforted to see that an action plan has been set up, but it is not enough to write it down. We're gonna have to apply it. And that's where we'll have you at the turn if it doesn't go fast enough. Thank you for listening. Evita Willaert, Chairman: I would like to give you what several Members have already asked for. An e-mail has already been sent, for which thanks, with the audit, the PowerPoint, the action plan and a number of tables of figures requested in the oral questions. Each attendee normally received that e-mail at 11:39. Normally it was Mrs. Fonck's turn, but she's not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u17	Minister, I would just like to ask a few questions because my colleague Damien Thiéry will speak on today's presentation. Minister, two years ago, I was already asking your predecessor several times about the significant delays in DG People with Disabilities. Several of my colleagues have referred to it. I intervened at the beginning following this completely failed implementation of a new computer program that only increased the difficulties already known. I must acknowledge that the Secretary of State had set priorities by committing herself to a number of issues, including the recruitment of staff and, above all, the decision to conduct an audit. I think this was one of the most interesting initiatives to take in view of all the dysfunctions already highlighted. This audit, which has just been carried out, is quite clear and tiring as to the current and real situation of this Directorate-General. Minister, you're inheriting a somewhat difficult case, especially given the fact that we're in our day-to-day business. However, I thank you for having been able to find ways, perhaps thanks to the Minister of Budget, Mrs Wilmès. It was quite fast and so I didn't hear the amount cleared. That's one of my questions. Could you repeat this because it seems important to me in relation to the commitment and implementation of your action plan? Secondly, you have very quickly planned an action plan which gives us some hope that this general direction will be improved in a more or less short period of time. I would also be, like some of my colleagues, so that we can look at and think about the fact that it is the disabled person who is at the centre of this problem. To have a disabled person in my immediate environment, I can tell you that it is really the fighter's journey to have a telephone contact that is almost non-existent or impossible, get an answer to an email, know how to do it. With the computer system, a person with a disability has a lot of difficulty in situating himself or herself, and he or she needs outside help. The system is incomprehensible to a person who is not in optimal conditions to deal with such things. Minister, I really draw your attention to this point. I note that, through this action plan, you have put the disabled person at the centre of this debate. The object of my first question was this famous war of numbers. Once again, when the problem was raised, we heard the administration say that there would be a delay of only 12,000 cases. It turns out that other parts, and especially mutualities (both Christian Mutualities and Solidaris), which are in direct contact with users, point to other figures. I would like you to explain to us how such a difference and disparity between the figures can exist. It seems to me that you can reassure us or, on the contrary, worry more about the number of unprocessed files. Finally, I would like to go back to the parking cards. I had previously interviewed Ms. Demir, who had already dealt with the issue. There was talk of an application that would allow everyone to check the validity of the parking card when a car is in a location. What about this project? Are we still at the pilot stage, or will this project be implemented quickly, with the intention of preventing all users who misuse places reserved for disabled people? This is an additional challenge for people with disabilities to integrate and participate in the civic life of their village, town or neighbourhood. As far as the telephone is concerned, I would like to know what will be done, apart from the commitment of staff. Practically, what are you going to do to ensure that, within three months, the telephone reception regains efficiency and performance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u18	Madam Chair, I thank the speakers. I'm not going to go back to all the findings. Some delays cause people with disabilities to lose money. Treatment times varying between one and two years have been mentioned. Minister, in your opinion, what is in the press is not in line with reality. I do not know how to resolve this dispute, but the fact is clear to everyone: there is a big problem. We have heard the analyses and proposals. Functional problems should not obscure the problem of staff shortages. If there are commitments, it is proof that there is a shortage of staff. Minister, you are talking about 38 full-time equivalents, but there are a lot of people who are already working and who are going to be titularized. Finally, you're talking about 18 recruitments. If I understand correctly, we're going to add 18 people to those who are currently working.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u19	28.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u20	28 recruits out of how many people? We talked about 149 file managers. Is that enough? How was this number determined? You say you have an agreement with the Minister of Budget. How much did you get? It's not a good thing we're recruiting exactly when we're in business. Where will this budget be drawn? How will you get that money? Is it on the interdepartmental provision or by some other technique? With regard to your commitments, concrete action points that you are putting forward, are the performance obligations that you have formulated temporary, in order to deal with the most pressing in the short term, or do you envisage them in the long term? I don't get all the numbers, but you're telling us, for parking cards, that we're going to go from 58% to 66% of files processed within six months. I guess that's not an ideal we want to achieve in the long run. Maybe that's a slight increase that we can have in the short term. You will agree that ideally, everything must be dealt with in less than six months. That's my design anyway. Some benefits such as the social rate for energy are not retroactive. As a result, delays in processing cases cause people with disabilities to lose money. What do you plan for these people to get back the money they lost? Or do you tell them it's lost forever? How much can this financial loss be estimated for all those who have not been recognized on time or whose review has not been made, while their situation has worsened? Finally, in its last opinion, the Higher Council for Persons with Disabilities rightly welcomes the determination of the workers and the Directorate-General who have had to work under difficult conditions. These workers denounce precarious contracts and increasingly untenable pressure. For example, 60 000 overtime worked in 2017, when a large number of workers were said to be in exhaustion. What measures will you take to relieve these workers and reduce their workload? We're going back to the commitments you've been talking about. Is that enough? How have these commitments been set?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u21	I thank each of the speakers. It was absolutely necessary to highlight the real figures, because the press does not always disclose the right ones, so that problems of understanding and interpretation arise. I come back to what my colleague said about the commitment of 28 full-time equivalents, which is excellent news. It may not be sufficiently emphasized, but it is a decision taken by this government. The former sales director I am is asking you how the training of the interested parties will be organized. Will a training unit be created? Without doubting the competence of the trainers, because I imagine they are experienced people, are you of course that they will give their courses according to regional specificities? We have heard that needs differ from region to region. Secondly, I dare to believe that a basis has been established for these recruitments, the number of which has been well defined. Was it designed on the basis of the recommendations and findings of the audit? If we hire these people, it's obviously in order to catch up. Once the goal has been achieved, and given that these are open-ended contracts, will it still be necessary to keep these 28 additional people? I assume that a calculation has been made in this respect. I will not go back to the audit, which is instructive, but I would like to thank the cell that carried it out. The results and recommendations have, of course, led to the development of twelve specific points which require, in accordance with the Minister's action plan, extremely rapid management. This is something concrete, which deserves to be stressed. Without wanting to be too negative or too critical with regard to the current operating system, I would like to ask a question that relates to my previous position as Director of Commerce. At that time, I had a team that worked very openly, reporting on the malfunctions and improvements to be made. I would like to ask the Director General of Services. Do you feel that with the staff you currently have, everyone is at the top? Do you also think that there is something that needs to be revisited, that is, staff who cannot or do not want to adapt to the needs of the service? I'm not asking the question to criticize or attack staff. I imagine that some evaluations provide insight into the best elements in the staff. How often do they occur? Is it not necessary to provide additional training to these people to improve their effectiveness? This is not only about the effectiveness of responding to a large number of cases, but also about the ability to adapt to the specific needs of the person with a disability. It would be interesting to have additional information on this side. I heard Mrs. Jiroflée say it was important to take the client on the front line. I think, minister, you said it. This is the first point in the recommendations given: focus on the client's or patient's demands and expectations. We can be reassured on this side. An action has already taken place in June 2018. On the basis of the recommendations, we are considering further action by May 2019. When will it be possible to judge whether these new actions are effective? Mr de Lamotte spoke of operational indicators. That's right. What monitoring and effectiveness policy will be put in place? The slides have been requested repeatedly. I was a little surprised by the one taking up the thousand calls and the degressivity he illustrated. I haven't seen any systematic values in abscisses and ordered. I wouldn't want these slides to be misunderstood. Now, on this one, it's possible. We'll have to make it clear. Next, a general question: if we focus on the patient's side. Here, at the level of Parliament, we have a very open discussion about what has been done or rather has not been done, and above all what will be done. On the other hand, we have 30 or 40,000 files on hold. This means that there are probably 30,000 people waiting. Is there no need to put in place a system of communication with these people waiting to tell them that their concern will be taken into account? This would already reassure those people who say they don't know where to go. This approach to communication with the patient is fundamental. It can be synthetic but must at least reassure people facing the problem. Mr Delizée, you have made a point that is relevant to the reform of the 1987 Act: there is a need for gradual adaptation. But today, this is not really the subject of the debate. You said it should be done, but here we are focused on the recommendations and the action plan. It may also be said that here we are somewhat victims of a legacy of the past. Improvements should not have been made in recent years. I think we can spread this work over about ten or fifteen years. On the other hand, I see, and this is extremely important, that there is a will for concrete action. This will is real and actions have been taken during this parliamentary term. I therefore believe that it is important to report this. For some of my colleagues, perhaps recently active in this committee or in Parliament, I would still like to thank the Secretary of State for allowing us in March to have contact with the services and to really be aware of the concerns and willingness to move forward. No one is perfect but the will was there and it must be pointed out. Jean-Marc Delizée, President: Mr Thiéry, I would just like to say that the 1987 law is not irrelevant in this debate. This is a general consideration. A simpler law would facilitate the lives of applicants and the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you and the speakers. I have already repeated here at the hearing with the Ombudsman what was the cry of the twenty professors. I would like to stress them again here. The situation that has been going on for years is unacceptable. She's a disgrace to social security and a scandal to the first victims. That is an important point to underline once again. The audit is very clear on the concrete and deep wounds or, let us say, on the handicaps of the system of a public service. That's painful and confrontational. At the same time, however, I would also like to point out that our experience during hearings is very often that we first get the results of the audit and then we have to wait a very long time before a plan of action is on the table. In this respect, it was refreshing today to see, in addition to the confrontational points of the audit, a short-term plan of action presented at the same time. This is important and seems to me to be a new beginning, as Mr Thiéry has just said. It is not something that has developed only in recent years, but something that we have to look back on in the past in the longer term. It is a good thing that we want to move in a different direction today. In that respect, it is therefore a new beginning. I will continue with what Mrs Lanjri said earlier. It is interesting to see what progress is in the short term. The question is, however, when are we going to achieve 100% satisfaction? That 100 % is of course approximate, let that be clear. Your plan of action is a short-term plan. However, it would also be interesting to know what the long-term approach is. In this respect, we need to focus on the client himself over and over again. That has often been suggested by the other Members. However, it is something that emerges very clearly from the audit. Let that be the core and center of all the adjustments that are happening. The aim of achieving 100% of our objectives is a point which we must also incorporate into a plan and which must be monitored and followed up. There have been many references to the technological problems and the problem of information technology. The audit also clearly reveals a management problem. We see a lack of many objectives and criteria on how shiftwork should work and the way in which staff should work. The audit is very explicit on this. Today I miss the whole human story in the plan of action. Many colleagues have already referred to it in various questions. On the one hand, a team has been working for a long time and we can all imagine that the team members in this area are very discouraged. The question arises as to how such a team can once again be given the courage and spirit to continue in the short and long term. On the other hand, new staff will be added in the short term. Mr Jiroflée also asked a moment ago whether that would be enough. The former Secretary of State indicated that there were 100 staff needed, but we have not achieved this number. Is the number of staff recruited today for the objectives of the short-term plan of approach sufficient, or is there a need for more people to achieve a 100 percent approach? However, I would like to emphasise that a very specific management plan of approach should be drawn up in the area of human capital. It would be very useful to get to work on that concretely and quickly. Many questions have also been asked about the differences in the provinces. I think I recall from previous hearings that this is mainly due to the problem of the inspection doctors, where there would be a reason. Minister, you indicated that there was uncertainty as to how best to deal with it. Should there be further recourse to supervisory doctors and further work on the statute? You also said that nurses could prepare the medical evaluations. Are you saying that these nurses are gonna be extra, or are they gonna be in the place of check-ups? How do the mutualities, with which you want to cooperate, fit into that context? I would have liked to have more explanation about that. One of the challenges is to eliminate the difference between the provinces. I can only join the call for quick wins, especially the technical ones. For example, telephone calls are split according to the language, making it possible to work more efficiently. We wonder how it is possible that these points of improvement were not simply implemented immediately. I know, that point has already been made, but I would like to join in. Reference has also been made to differences in the treatment of regionalised powers. There too, there is still a great deal to be done. Can you explain how this was dealt with in one region and what was not addressed in another? What are the real problems? In what way do you believe this can be remedied? Finally perhaps a word about the story of My Handicap. There too, users, those who already have a disability and were born or confronted with it by illness or accident, are starting out. These people have already suffered a lot in their lives, and in the future they will also have a lot to offer. I believe that we must start with a great deal of empathy from their situation and develop the necessary technology from there. I believe that technology is already available today. We must start from the individual and adapt the technology to him. A number of colleagues have said that it is difficult to log in with the eID and therefore, according to them, telephone calls or e-mails should also be possible. I believe that we must be careful to give ourselves the ways in which this should be done. It seems to me that technology can solve this very easily today, albeit in a way that minimises the administrative burden in the back office. I am not in favour of redefining everything back to e-mails and phones, although I understand that this is a pragmatic answer. I would therefore urge you to do this in the short term. We must make it easy for the user to take care of things from home. Above all, fair figures must also be used. If a plan of action is proposed in the short term, it is important that the correct figures are used. There must be transparency and we must have the courage to communicate. We are leaving out those who are right about the figures, but I believe, Minister, that this is an important point of attention which needs to be addressed. For the rest, I would like to call on you to get on with it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u23	Thank you, Mr Peeters, for your explanation. I would like to clarify a few things first, so that we know very well how this service ended up in the shit if I may use that word. Of course, it started with the sixth state reform. It was then decided to transfer PAB to the regions. Since 1 January 2016, 98 people have been transferred to the Länder. I have repeated this several times in the Council of Ministers. Afterwards it appeared that Wallonia and Brussels were not yet on board. The DG HAN department therefore continued to do this work federally without the staff being available for it. For Flanders, DG HAN still carries out the most evaluations. You know we're still short on doctors. In the course of 2016 we informed the Länder that we would take back 38 of the 98 transferred people. After all, we continued to ensure full-time work, but we had too few people to do so. So that was already a big problem. In addition, there was a linear saving of 10% on each service. I have repeatedly stressed that DG HAN is the little sister of the Social Security Office. If the figures are analysed correctly, it appears that the large savings of 20% on staff have been made by DG HAN. That should also be made very clear. Within that very large mastodont that is the Social Security Office, there was a linear saving of 10% but the focus was too strong with DG HAN, a service that nevertheless serves a very vulnerable group. I've said that several times. Thirdly, there was a problem with CURAM, from the software developer Capgemini. Courard and Onkelinx had made that tender in the previous period of government. The Netherlands had worked with Capgemini for child benefit and pensions. The software didn't work on any sides there. Capgemini had to pay 21 million to the Netherlands, because that software just didn't work. However, your party was also in the government at the time, Mr Peeters. What did I do? I think I've always been very transparent. I have also always explained a great deal here. When I was appointed, I quickly learned from the staff that CURAM did not function. The software was extremely flawed and didn't work on any sides. I've spent a lot of time with the top guys in Capgemini, but there was real unwillingness there. CURAM was launched in January 2017. At the beginning of March I immediately stopped the project and returned to Tetra. More than that, I also failed Capgemini. There's a legal file now. We will see what else will come out of it. When CURAM was started, there was a great deal of delay. I therefore temporarily recruited 38 people in 2017. I always said I'd go looking for a budget to keep them. All Members of this House knew that there were internal problems with efficiency gains and processes, but if the necessary staff is not there, of course there is an additional problem. So I recruited those 38 extra fulltimers. I have also ensured the return to Tetra and, moreover, I have assured that there were funds for Tetra for a period of four years. I have also started, Minister Peeters has already said it with the new software. So I put all that into motion. It was clear, however, that more was needed, which is why I also made a new and correct cooperation agreement with the Länder, because the money from the services of the Länder was not right. I have negotiated this and made proper arrangements, including with regard to staff. There was a strike announcement by the ACOD, including in relation to staff. The Christian union is for one reason or another never wanting to come to the table. I've had a long time... Don't be so cynical, miss. That's the truth. The union of the Christian pillar has not come to the table. I then concluded an agreement with the ACOD to hire additional staff, an additional 28 people for a cost of EUR 2.5 million. Is there gonna be extra staff, Minister Peeters? You say you took care of that, but is that what was agreed or is there going to be additional staff? I have also allowed my colleagues to be sure that the notes for the Council of Ministers show that I did not ask for 2 million but tens of millions, not only for staff but also for software and other matters. I have taken responsibility for this on several occasions in the Council of Ministers, but unfortunately someone clearly did not want to approve it. I'm gonna have to look for extra budget. That 2.5 million then came interdepartmental from colleagues N-VA ministers, in order to solve that. We had set up an action plan, which clearly solved a number of bottle necks. You can see from the PowerPoint given here I want to ask a question about this very clearly to the presentation of the files that from December 2018 until now there is a greater relapse. The backlog has been more eliminated. I can see, however, that from December to June, the objective is smaller in dealing with the dossiers and catching up. The Minister is very keen on telephony, but will the 28 extra men be deployed there? That's what I'm worried about. We have to be careful: if the phones are recorded, but the files in the back office are not resolved, then we have a bigger problem. In the objectives I see in the action plan on catching up with files from December to June that the catch-up movement is small, while telephony is much larger. Minister Peeters is very keen on the windowdressing of phones that need to be recorded, but I also think that being helped is very important. These people keep calling because there's no one in the back office. That problem remains the same. My question is very specific. Will all 28 people who are recruited in addition be employed on the telephone? I had also planned to recruit extra doctors. Are they with the 28? After all, that is very important. Finally, Mr Peeters does not, of course, get that out of his mind, but I ordered that audit in March-April. I proposed an action plan here. I said at the time that we must move forward, that this is not enough. We really need to consider how we can improve the organisation. That was not so much a criticism; we just need to see how we can organise and improve a number of things differently. That's why my cabinet ordered that audit. I am therefore very pleased that we are being presented with the audit here today, that we can draw a number of lessons from it, and that we can continue to do so in policy terms. Anyone who wants to look at the file that I brought to the Council of Ministers, with a further question for that service, can always come to me. I am very open and transparent, but unfortunately that was not approved. That was definitely not my fault. Evita Willaert, President: We are now listening to the Minister's reply. Our other guests may also be able to answer some questions. I propose that we keep it short and that the replies be limited to two minutes afterwards. After this we have hearings planned and we really need to finish on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u24	The necessary information has been transferred. We will provide additional information on the basis of the technical questions asked. I hope that, when everyone has been able to look at things quietly, a lot of unclear points can be clarified. I would like to point out a few elements in advance. Mr de Lamotte and the other colleagues stressed the importance that clients, people with disabilities, should be the priority for all of us. The client, namely the person with disabilities, must be at the centre. We must give them all the attention we need, and we must make the necessary adjustments in this respect. The staff can or should not be explicitly blamed. Everyone does their best, according to godliness and power. There was a tradition, which was broken today, that a former minister or secretary of state refrains from commenting and asking questions for a certain period of time. I understand that N-VA does not respect that tradition. This tradition is important because, as a member of the government, we take part in debates within the government, from which decisions arise, and, of course, if we do not distance ourselves from the ministership, a very peculiar debate will take place. I will leave it to Parliament, Mr President, but perhaps it is time to look at whether this tradition can be restored. We can expect reservations from previous colleagues. I have been given this power following the departure of a government party from the government. In the limited time I have left, I am trying to do a number of things for the better. I hope that this can be done with the support of the whole committee, without looking at the past and certainly without blaming it. People with disabilities do not have a message, nor do the staff, and it does not bring us much further. Nor am I concerned with what has happened in the past and who is responsible for it. I'm still trying to do something for the better in this short space of time. That is why this audit was proposed here. It is also the reason why an action plan has been proposed. I hope that everyone will take part in the proposed improvements. Having said that, it was important to present the audit here in full clarity and openness so that Members would be aware of it. We will try to respond in a short time to the recommendations made, as concrete and clear as possible, and we will try to achieve them as efficiently as possible. It concerns in particular 28 additional recruitments, 20 of which are used for telephone calls, 4 doctors and 4 for management support. The 20 additional staff for telephone calls relieves the people handling the files, while the strengthening of the 8 other additional staff is also important. The figure of 100 additional staff has not been analysed because I have not taken note of the fact that a total of 100 additional staff would be recruited in the long term. I have taken note of it now, and I will look into it. However, since the budget for 2019 has not been approved, due to the fact that we are in current business, it has already been quite a witch's tour to get the current recruitments within the provisional twelfths budget. Once again, I should like to make it clear that the Minister for the Budget has approved this. The clients, the clients, are central, as I said. In my explanatory statement to the action plan, you can see that clearly. Both points 1.2 and 1.6 deal with quality assurance, with the aim of further starting up quality systems and placing the customer at the heart of them. This means, among other things, that a customer survey will be explicitly part of the quality system that is being launched. A good knowledge of the customer/client means an important step for improvement. There were some questions on the phone. It is true that the technical solution is quite simple, but additional staff are also employed. You asked me about the staff. The necessary skills have been laid down, in particular for the 20 people in charge of telephony. I have here a complete overview of the training they will receive. That training is about a lot of subjects and is given by internal and external people. For example, it explains how to handle telephone calls: one will listen in, formulate answers and get feedback. The highly developed training will take 20 days and place the emphasis on what people should be able to do and how to handle telephone calls. A protocol has been concluded with the regions. It is true that staff have left for the regions and it is not easy to regain the skills and skills that have disappeared. It was rightly cited that element contributes to the problems facing DG HAN. Consultation with the sickness funds is very important. This is planned every three months, and we are considering what role and additional tasks they can fulfil. There is also the shortage of doctors, for which a solution could be to allow nurses under the supervision of a doctor to do a number of things. It is my personal conviction, as some of my colleagues have also mentioned, that in the future it can or must be a combination of further work with doctors and therefore attract them on a market basis, and with nurses who can add some elements of added value. There was a demand for those two tracks. I am convinced that one can or should follow an en-en approach and that we can solve the problem in this way. Mr Delizée, you have given information about the 1987 Act. I think your analysis is correct. The former Secretary of State asked Professors Pacolet, Godderis, Falez and Mélot to review the law and propose some improvements. I understood that the study is almost complete. We will contact the teachers to find out their proposals. When the study is ready, we will be able to discuss it in committee, with a view to the elections, so that we can be well informed of the changes proposed by the professors. Many questions were asked about the figures. I can give you all the numbers you asked for. If this is not enough, we can discuss it again. I can tell you that this is not a Community debate. Some cells work very well, for example in Bruges but also in Liège. This is not a linguistic or community situation. Rather, it is about staff and the actual situation in some cells. A question was asked about the budgetary cost. I can inform you that the total cost is EUR 2.5 million. In fact, two million were given extra because 500,000 euros had already been used to recruit the staff I mentioned. The President of the National Supreme Court is here. I have had a conversation with them and I believe that the National Supreme Court is very valuable. I very much appreciate their input into this action plan. They will monitor policies and daily activities in full independence to help strengthen the situation. I agree to work with the Supreme Council because it is a very useful instrument for all of us, and especially for the minister responsible. So the information is coming up, with the audit report and everything that was explained here. There is a demand to split the telephone line, but there was also a demand for additional staff. Of course, the motivation of the staff is important, that is very correct. As far as statistics are concerned, I understand that they can still be found on the website, but a little more difficult. My associates have found them, but I understand that we need to give them a more explicit place. The statistics should at least remain available there, but perhaps a little more accessible, so that one has to look for less time to find them. You refer to the quota of 60. From January there will be no quota at all. As I said, with the extra capacity and longer opening hours, we are taking a very important step. You refer to the forms, I can tell you that they are being simplified and that accessibility is being increased. This was also taken into account in the action plan. Mrs Schlitz, you stressed the importance of working by giving priority to the client. You're right. For the new dossiers, the plan provides for very specific actions. I hope that all the other questions you have asked are clarified. I am in a situation with an action plan ready to be launched in the coming weeks, until 1 May. We have, together with the director and management, well drafted monitoring points to follow the evolution of the file. This is our goal to avoid launching a second or third action plan without follow-up. It is also clear that the persons who conducted the audit are responsible for following up on all the recommendations that have been made. This will avoid having conducted an audit without monitoring the implementation of the planned actions. I have also already stressed the importance of collaboration with the Higher Council. I have also understood that this Council has some problems in terms of staff. We will also try to find a solution in this regard. Mrs Lanjri's question was converted into a written question. The answer to her question is coming. As regards the differences between the different cells and regions, I have already noted that it is not a Community element. The differences can be explained or explained in many ways. That is, on the one hand, because of the difference in medical capacity and, on the other hand, because of the difference in skills and experience between the teams. There are therefore a number of elements that can explain the differences. For me, however, the most important thing is for the differences to be eliminated gradually and for the best of the class to be followed by the rest, as well as for the smartest of the class to be matched or to be very close to it. That's the idea. Mr. de Lamotte, you're right. The service offered must be neutral and effective regardless of the region in which you live, whether Wallonia, Brussels or Flanders. So simplifications are also envisaged. That's obvious. There were a few questions about skills, especially with respect to the selection of staff assigned to the telephone reception. We have a very comprehensive program to ensure that people in charge of the telephone reception have social skills, but also with technical and telephone knowledge. It's planned in the exercise. As far as the figures are concerned, I have given the figures that are sent to my office. For the rest, I hope that we will be able to conclude the discussion on this subject. If there are different problems or figures, I would like to look at all the figures on the table, but for me, the debate on the figures, if it is of course very important, is not the priority. When we have discussions on the numbers, I am prepared to give clarifications. For the rest, I hope I've given all the information. If some specific technical information is missing, I am prepared to send all the information to the secretariat of the committee. As for the authors of the audit, if you have anything to add, this is the time. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: Thank you very much, Minister. The replicas are still going to take place. Given the time, I will ask that everyone be concise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which limit the time for replying in this kind of exchange. I would already like to thank the minister and the speakers for the information they have given us. Not everything is concluded today, but we have had an in-depth exchange of views on the issues. Members will reply in the order in which they speak. Mrs Jiroflée has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u25	Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation and for all the efforts that are being made. I wish you every success in that. I hope that we can have an exchange of views before the end of this legislative period if we have looked at all this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u26	Thanks for the answers. I look forward to the various elements that the minister has proposed to send.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u27	Minister, thank you. It feels like you're motivated. I hope that in the short period that remains, you will be able to improve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u28	Minister, unless I am mistaken, I did not have an answer to a specific question that I asked about information to people who are still on hold or who have a delayed file. Is it possible to contact these people to tell them that things are moving forward?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1025x.u29	We're going to analyze the possibilities. Jean-Marc Delizée, Chair: With my colleague, we thank the guests and colleagues who participated in this debate. We will keep an eye on the follow-up to this case. I have no doubt that he will come back in the next few weeks because there is room for the debate to continue.
