ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the discussion of points 13 to 17 after the discussion of point 6: the discussion of items 13 to 17 after the discussion of item 6: 13. the draft law adapting the Financial Act of 21 December 2018 for the financial year 2019, Nos 3556/1 to 4. 14. the draft law establishing the Code of Companies and Associations and laying down various provisions, Nos 3119/1 to 23; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois, Mrs Karine Lalieux and Mrs Karin Temmerman and Mr Olivier Henry) amending the Code of Companies and establishing a framework of standards and values for cooperative companies, Nos 125/1 to 4; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Meyrem Almaci, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet and Mr Gilles Vanden Burre) on the creation of a legal form for cooperative and participatory companies, Nos 1068/1 to 4; - the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mr Marcel Cheron and Mr Georges Gilkinet) amending the Code of Companies with a view to granting the shareholders of the NVs and the bvba's double voting rights, Nos 2431/1 to 3. 13. Bill to adjust the Finance Act of 21 December 2018 for the 2019 budget year, Nos. 3556/1 to 4. 14. The draft law introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and introducing various provisions, Nos. 3119/1 to 23; - the draft law (Ms. Fabienne Winckel, Mr. Paul-Olivier Delannois, Ms. Karine Lalieux, Ms. Karin Temmerman and Mr. Olivier Henry) amending the Code of Companies, concerning standards and cooperative values, Nos. 125/1 to 4; - the proposal for a law (Ms Meyrem Almaci, MM. Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet and Gilles Vanden Burre) for the creation of a statute for cooperative and participatory management companies, Nos. 1068/1 to 4; - the bill (MM. Gilles Vanden Burre, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Marcel Cheron and Georges Gilkinet) amending the Company Code to allow a double voting right to shareholders of the S.A. and S.P.R.L., Nos. 2431/1 to 3. The Committee on Trade and Economic Law unanimously agrees to an oral report. The Committee on Commercial and Economic Law unanimously agrees to make an oral report. 15. the draft law adapting certain federal tax provisions to the new Code of Companies and Associations, Nos 3367/1 to 4. 16. draft law regulating the transfer of subjection to legal persons' tax to corporate tax, Nos 3368/1 to 3. 17. the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Inez De Coninck, Mr Frank Wilrycx, Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Mrs Griet Smaers, Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Michel de Lamotte) on the professions of accountant and tax advisor, Nos 3522/1 to 4. 15. Bill adapting certain federal tax provisions to the new Code of Companies and Associations, Nos. 3367/1 to 4. 16. the draft law organizing the transition from the tax liability of legal persons to corporate tax liability, Nos. 3368/1 to 3. 17. the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick and Inez De Coninck, Mr. Frank Wilrycx, Mrs. Caroline Cassart-Mailleux and Griet Smaers, MM. Luk Van Biesen and Michel de Lamotte) concerning the professions of accountant and tax adviser, Nos. 3522/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u3	Mr President, Prime Minister, the work of the social partners must be stressed because they have reached agreement on various dimensions (wages, end-of-care scheme, increase of minimum social benefits). Social dialogue in our country is still working, let us welcome it! Crispations took place, everyone had to put water in their wine. But the agreement is there and, although it is not perfect, it offers a certain prospect of social peace in our country, which needs it after five years of very strong social tensions. It remains for your minority and current government and this Parliament to do their part. As ecologists, we hope that this is the case despite the N-VA which, during these five years, has done everything possible to put sticks in the wheels of social consultation, sometimes with your more or less active complicity, and the opposition of the Open Vld, some of whose members seem to want to call into question the agreement of the social partners on the scheme of unemployment with additional enterprise. As if in Belgium, Carrefour or Fnac etc. There were no problems, as if 58-year-olds who lost their jobs should not be allowed to get a decent exit or until they returned to work, as if employers were not to be held accountable in this case when they were responsible! Prime Minister, can you confirm that you will assume responsibility, on behalf of the government, to ensure that the entire agreement is implemented? Can you make a concrete commitment that it will be implemented in the context of day-to-day affairs and within the time frame when there is only a little more than a month left? I can already tell you on behalf of the environmentalists that if you do not find the necessary voices to implement this agreement, you will be able to count on ours because we are always on the side of the right solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u4	Prime Minister, it took a while, but in the week of the Marrakech coalition, you managed to get green support. It is only a few months later that you will also be offered. Time brings advice, in this case green council. On 26 February, Mr Peeters, outgoing Deputy Prime Minister, said on the radio that the nuclear cabinet decided not to publish the royal decisions on the SWT scheme and runways for older workers, pending wage negotiations. On 11 February, Mr Demir received a reply in committee to a question from Deputy Prime Minister Peeters. [[He talked about royal decisions that were knocked off in the Council of Ministers on 16 November and actually written down after consulting the Council of State, but then remained in his drawer.]] Mrs De Block responded that she was positive about the social agreement and that she was ready to write the necessary royal decisions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The VBO says in the newspaper today that the royal decree was approved but not published. Since Mr Peeters left it in his drawer, it is actually non-existent. The VBO also says that an agreement between the social partners is now sufficient to adapt the old rules. However, that agreement is clearly contrary to the royal decrees. You may remember Michel I, Mr Peeters. New Year has gone over and times have changed, but then it was peis and peace and colleagues still believed in the Swedish story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u5	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u6	At least our departure has led to a great turn. The events do raise some questions, Prime Minister. Firstly, is Mr Peeters' statement that a decision was taken in the nuclear cabinet not to implement a previous decision? Secondly, the IPA agreements are still being submitted to the grassroots. So there really is no agreement yet. Do you agree with that at the moment? Thirdly, does this mean that Mr Peeters still has time to publish the royal decrees? Fourthly, will you ensure, as guardian of the Swedish heritage, that this publication will be published in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, the draft inter-professional agreement reached within the Group of Ten is perhaps one of the few good news of the last few weeks in terms of job opportunities and encouragement for peaceful social relations in the business world. Let us acknowledge this, it was probably necessary to show a sense of conciliation on both sides. But as very often, despite those who want to put an end to this Group of Ten, considering that it prevents further institutional developments in Belgium, the Group brings to policy a lesson of realism and efficiency. Let me tell you, Prime Minister, that even if your government is in day-to-day business, not giving a chance to this interprofessional agreement and suggesting that you would be unable to translate it into royal implementing orders would be a bad signal and would, in the end, be proof that you are somewhere hostage to the N-VA. We have just heard the remarks made by the group leader of this party. It is true that you must first clarify things and determine whether the royal decree that was announced as a result of the deal was or was not taken. If it has indeed been, is it now cancelled or what about its legal status? Clarity and certainty are needed in this regard. Indeed, there is a question here of an obstacle which could arise on the way to the implementation of the interprofessional agreement. It must be noted that dissident voices are heard within your majority or that there are discordant voices within the Open Vld Group itself. Mrs De Block's expression is not Mr De Block's. Van Quickenborne, although it is true that the latter often has very unexpected or very immediate reactions and does not always give himself time to analyze things. His name's not Van Quickenborne for nothing! Prime Minister, you, as the head of a government in day-to-day affairs, would be well advised to bring serenity to this debate. I therefore ask you to tell us clearly what the intentions of your Government are in this matter. To ensure efficiency and serenity in the negotiations between the social partners seems to me to be more necessary than ever.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u8	Mr Prime Minister, on Tuesday evening, a select group of ten organisations concluded an important agreement in our country. They do not appear on the electoral lists in May, but they do make important agreements for our country. You will not be able to punish them or reward them in May, but they are still important. If they do so within a legal framework, which we have democratically agreed, then that is not a problem either. I would also like to emphasise what Minister De Block said, that if wages rise by 1.1 percent in the coming years, then that is good, because that increases the purchasing power of the working people. If EUR 700 million is spent on higher benefits, it is good for pensioners, the unemployed and others who get something extra. However, what we absolutely disagree with is that democratic agreements are being crossed by people who do not run for election. It can't be. In the coalition agreement, we had already made very clear agreements on the SWT in the case of restructuring. In 2017, the age for the SWT should have been 60 years. We have already come back to our agreement under the Michael I administration and made it more flexible at that time. Now, however, we are going even further. People want to push 58-year-olds to the exit again in the coming year. However, we had made clear agreements on this. Last year, in July 2018, I was also in the chair to question the Minister of Work about Carrefour. The Minister for Work, Kris Peeters, replied to me: "Mr Lachaert, as far as SWT is concerned, a difficult decision was taken. However, the government can say very clearly that from 2019 the minimum age for collective redundancies will be 59 years and 60 years from 2020." That is what he said in plenary. I do not think that what we do here every Thursday afternoon is laughing and is really important. Afterwards, that deal ended up in the labor deal and on the government table. A royal decree has been drafted, but it has never been published. I still understand that in the last two weeks people have not wanted to publish that in order not to throw oil on the fire, but we have never committed ourselves to getting back to that decision. It must be carried out. Finally, Prime Minister, Minister of Work, we have committed ourselves, together with the members of the old majority, to whom some are homesick, to carry out the work deal in Parliament. We will approve and implement the work deal in Parliament. [[Tumult]] In doing so, Mr Jan Spooren and the colleagues of CD&V were also there to publish the royal decrees, otherwise the labor deal will not go through. I want the agreements to be respected, and I would like to ask you whether you will come back to the agreements made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when I see how applause is spread on the benches, I discover that agreements between groups are being made and are being defeated. Isn't that right, Prime Minister? You laugh, but what's going on is not uninteresting. Because a major issue is involved. During this parliamentary term, I have constantly said how important the role of the social partners is and encourage you to support social dialogue. I can therefore only look forward to the agreement that is emerging between all the social partners. It is for the benefit of all: employers as well as workers, as well as the social climate within companies. Except that Mr Lachaert has just clearly described the RCC component as unacceptable. The Open Vld has spread all over the air in recent days. Ladies and gentlemen of the Open Vld, your position is challenging in the context we are experiencing: 1,700 job losses at ING, 1,233 at Carrefour, 1,900 at Proximus, 2,500 at BNP Paribas. Recognize that many of these job losses involve workers over 55 years of age! Mr Prime Minister, the real question and the one you have to answer in full transparency today is what your position is going to be. Will you support the IPA and follow the sense of responsibility of the social partners? Will you support your Minister of Employment to take the royal decrees to translate the interprofessional agreement? Are you going to follow the Open Vld by preventing the translation of this agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am actually having a very difficult time with the way in which a number of colleagues, in this dossier and others, deal with the commitment of many fellow countrymen. If there are young people on the streets for the climate, then some people's reaction is disdainful by not listening to that call for more climate ambition. When scientists and business call for a climate law, the same misapprehensions are seen. If people came to the streets a while ago for their purchasing power and more security, then there was also a misapprehension. If today the social partners reach an agreement, then there are Open Vld and N-VA to respond with a great deal of disdain and arrogance. I would like to invite you as Prime Minister to embrace all that commitment and courage, which is necessary to reach an agreement. Of course such an agreement is not perfect, but it rarely happens that an agreement, which Mr Van Quickenborne himself concludes, is perfect. Nor should we impose on the social partners the bar which we do not dare to impose on ourselves. Prime Minister, you may be the leader of a government in current affairs, but you must be a leader. Social peace is important. You have repeatedly called for investment in social peace in this House. You have even asked the opposition parties to make social agreements possible in Parliament. You have invited colleagues Kitir, Laaouej and myself. "You're going to support the interprofessional agreement, aren't you? You're not going to abandon a government of current affairs for that, are you?" That's what you asked us to do. You've got our word. We will not abandon you and this country. Colleagues, that is, of course, the difference between us. Mr De Roover denounced it when the trade unions left the table, but the trade unions had the courage to sit back at the table. The N-VA has walked and never returned. We are dealing with it in a different way, Prime Minister. We are aware, colleagues Dewael and Van Quickenborne, of the importance of social peace and social dialogue for our companies. It is true that politics must set the lines, but politics must also be able to bring people together and respect when social partners stick their necks out. Mr. Prime Minister, just whistle back that Open Vld and N-VA cartel. Tell Mr. Van Quickenborne that you said goodbye to Theo Francken. Tell me you don't need a Theo for the social consultation. We need firefighters instead of arsonists. I am counting on your clear commitment and a clear statement from this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the MR, we welcome the 2019-2020 interprofessional pre-agreement, which has taken place in a difficult context. Let us consider the Brexit deadlines as well as the geopolitical tensions between China and the United States that cause socio-economic uncertainty. It is good that social dialogue in our country works. We can rejoice in that. It is important to stress that this is the second time that an interprofessional pre-agreement has been concluded since the beginning of this legislature. It is a good compromise on both the purchasing power and the competitiveness of enterprises, as well as on social and environmental cohesion. With regard to purchasing power, in addition to the effects of tax shift, 1.1% of the increase must be added to the effects of the 1996 Act, to indexation, to baraemic increases. Purchasing power will, in a way, increase by almost 5% over the next two years. This is 1.1% more for minimum wages. It is also a working group that is set up to combat job traps. With regard to the competitiveness of enterprises, in addition to the effects of the tax shift, mention should be made of the continuation of the reductions in contributions with the increase in the number of defied hours. Socially and environmentally, in two years, nearly one billion euros will be allocated through the welfare envelope for the lowest allocations. They are also mobility measures aimed at transferring part of the users to public transport. It is therefore a green shift that is proposed. There are also measures aimed at social peace. It's not nothing. We have seen in recent years that social peace is sometimes difficult and it is good that we can engage in this. Of course, let us agree that some slight adaptations are proposed by the social partners at the level of pre-pension. But for the MR these slight adaptations are acceptable, particularly in view of the positive elements put in place by this agreement. For the MR, it is therefore necessary to respond favourably to the unanimous call of the social partners and to validate the agreement once the social partners have validated this interprofessional pre-agreement at the end of their internal process. Prime Minister, my question is twofold. Can you give us more information about this pre-agreement? Can you provide us with the upcoming deadlines for the completion of this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u12	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, tens of thousands of people came to the streets 14 days ago to demand more purchasing power. The social partners again sat around the negotiating table and the government, quite consciously, gave all the room to the social partners. On Tuesday morning, a balanced social agreement was reached which guarantees social peace, whereby mayors will no longer have to act against strike tactics, where there is social peace, unless there are politicians who want to blow up the agreement in order to say afterwards that social dialogue is not working. There is therefore an agreement on an increase in purchasing power, a wage premium of 4.54%, higher minimum wages, higher benefits and pensions, a good end-of-life policy. And yes, there is also an agreement on the SWT. The social partners support the final objective we had set, in particular 60 years for everyone. Only for a very limited number, a few months to a year, they are somewhat slower than the government had planned. Contrary to all the fake news that we hear here in the Halfround, the social partners are making the SWT even stricter, because the government had stipulated for the heavy professions and for the long careers that the SWT could remain possible from 59 years onwards. The social partners go on and say: 60 years, including for these people, from 2021 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u13	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u14	Some people hoped there wouldn't be an agreement. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, you have both done everything possible to make an agreement possible on the basis of a shared concern, to increase purchasing power, to enable workable end-of-life jobs, to raise the lowest benefits. According to Mr Lachaert, the social partners had to reach out to each other. I quote, "because a boxing match in the trenches wouldn't help anyone forward." Those who so insisted on an agreement are now the first to criticise, while all organisations, including the VBO and UNIZO, fully support this agreement. Mr Lachaert, you were right at the time, but a boxing match in the trenches of politics is not helping anyone. I know that there will be elections in a few months' time and that the profiling urge is strong, but workers and employers have little message of this. They think beyond the elections. We must do the same, at least if we are responsible politicians. The social partners want an agreement for more purchasing power, more jobs, workable work. That was also the government's programme. We do not want to deviate from that. Therefore, CD&V considers that the agreement should be implemented in its entirety. Shooting this agreement from a political point of view is firing fire and driving chaos, new strikes and social unrest. That is irresponsible and we are not participating in it. We asked the social partners to take on their responsibilities. They have done so, and now we have to take responsibility. Mr Prime Minister, the question is whether the government will approve and implement this agreement in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the second time that the social partners have approved an IPA during this legislative period. That's a difference from the past. We have worked over the last few weeks and months to create maximum room for this social dialogue. On the night of Monday on Tuesday, we heard that a new social agreement was reached during this parliamentary term. I would like to explain what the key elements of this agreement are, even though the focus has been on one element in particular. A first important element is the wage margin of 1.1 % on top of indexation, 3.8 % over the whole period, which again means support for the working people. This measure is in addition to the effects of the tax shift, including the latest effects of January 2019, which also meant more purchasing power for the working people. This is very important for low wages and middle wages. Secondly, I would mention the purchasing power of the welfare envelope, which will be paid out at 100%. More than 300 million euros in 2019 and more than 700 million euros in 2020. There is one very important point: the social partners have a great deal of attention in their proposal to the problem of unemployment traps. This problem of job traps is a very important element which has been taken into account, I would like to stress. I remember earlier debates in which this issue was the subject of rough tensions and discussions. A third important point is mobility. In the logic of our mobility budget, based on the logic of encouraging other forms of mobility, the social partners have also taken decisions of principle to provide more support through employers for alternative mobility, not necessarily the car, but public transport and other forms of mobility, with concrete consequences for workers. It's also an important signal. As regards the minimum wage, it is increased by 1.1 per cent. A working group is set up with an appointment clause after the summer to see if tax and social bonuses can be reformed in relation to the minimum wage. On the question of career ends and pre-pensions, adaptations are presented in this draft agreement by the social partners. That works in two directions. On the one hand, it is right to tighten the measures in relation to what was proposed. On the one hand, there is a tightening of periods in relation to career ends and pre-pensions, and on the other hand, for companies undergoing restructuring, there is this proposal to extend until the end – and not the beginning – of the year 2020 the age of 60. If I take the figures we have, 200 people are potentially affected, while the issue of toughening the measures can affect 1,000 people. I would like to include these objective elements in the information that is provided at the outset of Parliament. What are the next steps? I would like to explain this as clearly as possible. Firstly, the government was informed that the agreement for the social partners constitutes a single entity for employers and employees. A second element is that the trade unions have asked for a month for the traditional consultation of their supporters. That means that we are talking about a pre-agreement. It is not yet validated by the parties around the table as the unions have requested 30 days to do so. Here's the facts. Thirdly, what would the implementation mean, given that the trade unions agree with the whole? I'm trying to share the maximum amount of information with you. It's not as simple as some seem to think. In fact, there are three potential effects. There are legislative acts. Together with the minister concerned, we have listed, in the event of a confirmed agreement, the legislative acts to be undertaken. We will come and present them to Parliament as a government that fulfills its responsibilities. There are regulatory acts - royal decrees - which must be taken, for example in connection with the welfare envelope, mobility allowances, etc. There is also the National Labour Council - which some seem to have forgotten - which, if the agreement is confirmed, must validate collective labour agreements. If the trade unions approve and confirm the agreement, then collective agreements are needed. As far as implementation is concerned, the ball is not just in Parliament's or government's camp, it is also in the National Labour Council's camp, which must take CADs. I hear the views expressed well; they are respectable in a democratic debate. I simply call for rationality and the principle of reality. The latter wants us to know in 30 days if this agreement is confirmed by the unions. We will then be able to initiate legislative and regulatory processes. We, as Parliament and government, will have to respect what will be decided within the framework of collective agreements. With regard to SWTs or RCCs (pre-pensions), it is the heads of the National Labour Council who will have to take the lead if this agreement is validated. That's the situation. Mr President, I show a great deal of respect for everyone's opinions in this House, but I return to a principle of reality and pragmatism. In any case, regardless of the decision of the trade unions in a month's time, I believe that it is important for our economic future, for social peace and for competitiveness and purchasing power to be able to prove once again that social dialogue is working. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u16	Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this Parliament there are those who are looking for problems, the pyromaniacs - in this case, often the N-VA and the Open Vld - and then there are those who are looking for solutions, solutions for the future, just solutions. This is what the social partners have done, and this is what ecologists want to do specifically - since this is where the debate is crystallizing - in relation to the system of pre-pensions, which has the dual advantage of empowering employers and relieving the situation of older workers. Prime Minister, I would have liked you to express yourself more clearly as being in the camp of those who are looking for solutions, even if I see that this is still possible. This will not correct your social balance with its jump in index, raising the pension age without taking into account difficult careers, with the number of long-term patients and poor workers. But "lady nature" has indeed brought back social peace and has shown that social dialogue in our country is still working. Take your responsibilities! Watch the watch because time is running out! You will then be able to count on the support of environmentalists to arrive at these fair and forward-looking solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u17	Prime Minister, one of the questioners said that you must be a leader. I fear that you are indeed a'sufferer', but not as was insinuated earlier. According to the VBO, the door would have been closed today if the KB on which an agreement existed had been published. So I understand that Michel II's nuclear cabinet has decided to open the door to the erosion of Michel I's decisions. That is what we have to establish today. You had a residual government, which decided to approve the Marrakesh Pact, even though there was no agreement in the government. You have de facto outplayed the N-VA. (Protests from Mr Kristof Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u18	Let Mr De Roover speak, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u19	Mr President, if Mr Calvo's statements were recorded for the annals, I would like them to be deleted, because his language is absolutely indecent. (Protests from Mr Kristof Calvo)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u20	Mr De Roover, please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u21	Prime Minister, at the same time we note that, while there was an agreement in the Michael I administration, it is not being implemented; it is even being actively torpedoed. It is said here that we would ask for the social agreement to be blown up, but here it is proposed to blow up the Michael I government agreement. That fact is on the table today, and today it becomes clear why some people wanted the N-VA from the government. Prime Minister, you had a majority government. That's dropped to a government that represents a third. I note today that even that one third is now split. How low are you going in terms of parliamentary support before you stop giving the impression that you are a government? I'm asking you that question today. If you do not ensure that the KBs are published effectively by Mr Peeters within one month, it is an undeniable fact that the Swedish project was abandoned by Charles Michel, Alexander De Croo and Kris Peeters at the meeting of the nuclear cabinet on which they passed the Swedish Government's agreements by the paper chipper.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u22	Please finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u23	I hope that the Ministers at Open Vld will be kept informed by the Group of Open Vld and that they will act consistently with the statements made by their group. Prime Minister, it is actually good news that your government fell in December, otherwise you would have gone against the canvas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u24	Mr President, to see how much the banks of the old majority are tearing apart, how can we believe for a moment that this majority finally had a project beneficial to the country? How can we believe that this majority has the necessary wisdom, at a time when the social partners are bringing us back to the sense of responsibility and the need to move forward for labour protection, for the competitiveness of enterprises, for a social climate beneficial to the whole country? It may be time, in some parties, for some to take their responsibilities rather than engage in a small pre-electoral game, because that is what this is about this afternoon! It is not the sense of responsibility that dictates the positions of some. It is simply pure electoral positioning. It's pretty painful, but it's mostly very detrimental to our prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u25	Mr De Roover, a fellow party member of mine once said that belonging to the opposition is something like riding a bike on a bike: it gives the same feeling, because many things cannot be realized. We also regret that you chose the exercise bike, but we choose the mountain ride. We are going to implement the policy we have decided on together. It is a pity that you have left the government, but we will do everything we can to ensure that the agreements of that time are respected. If a KB is not published at the moment, you have heard a very clear opinion on this because of our group. We will continue to insist on this, because it is bad for 58-year-olds. They are written off for the labour market, and we must not give that signal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, with the next restructuring, we will see people of 58 years of age being put on the door. You think that is a good model; I think that, together with our group, is a bad model. We believe that these workers should also continue to work and be given every opportunity. We will wait and see what the social partners themselves are doing in the coming period, and that is what I am deriving from the answer. We are indeed talking about an agreement, but there is still a need for a vote by the members of the trade unions. It will determine what the result will be and whether or not the IPA will be there. I insist that the increase in wages and benefits is a good thing, which we will fully support, but we will also continue to oppose measures that put people into inactivity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. My observation is of a political nature. Indeed, your minority government is still a little more so today. Those who, from within the government, sabotage such a positive interprofessional agreement for the country, for workers and for employers, behave completely irresponsiblely. This agreement is important and we will support you from the opposition to advance the cause of those who invest in the world of work on a daily basis. We will see what your position as Prime Minister will be. I hope, in any case, that you will have a sense of responsibility and that, unlike others, you will not choose the way, far too easy, of electionist postures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u27	Mr De Roover has a point: there is indeed little left of the majority. However, there is a clear parliamentary majority. We don't live in an N-VA dictatorship. There was indeed, fortunately, a Marrakech coalition of which you were not part. The N-VA would rather work with criminals than with the United Nations. Parliament has opted for a different approach, namely the approach to international cooperation. Mrs Demir, after a Marrakech coalition, the Greens also want to build a coalition of social peace. You can count on us for that, Prime Minister. After all, it is important that Belgian politics is clear today. You are not responsible for the irresponsible attitude of your former and your current coalition partner. However, you do miss an opportunity to be clear. Prime Minister, why is this clarity important? That's because the unions are consulting their supporters today. At a time when they are trying to convince their supporters of a very fragile and difficult agreement, there are pyromaniacs, such as Mr Van Quickenborne, who want to disrupt fragile social peace. So, Prime Minister, let us give a clear political signal as soon as possible. Finally, Mr Van Quickenborne, I must say that your hypocrisy is incredible. When Parliament considered the status of MEPs and your remuneration as chairman of the committee, the change had to be as slow as possible. At that time, the acquired rights and the current status were very important. Then you stood on the brakes saying that we would not change things now. However, when it comes to the status of ordinary workers, you go through with the rough axe and the coarse brush. That's unbelievable. You harm not only your party but the whole of politics with that attitude. You should have much more respect for all the people who work hard for our country every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u28	Mr Van Quickenborne is asking for the floor for a personal statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u29	Mr. Calvo, you really played the man. We know you by now. When it gets too difficult in a debate, you play the man. Mr President, I would like to point out that the dossier referred to by Mr Calvo has been approved by everyone here in Parliament. That is the reality. Those are the facts. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u30	Prime Minister, thank you for this clear and detailed answer. Despite that, Mr. Gilkinet, you have suggested that there was some doubt about it. Obviously, you didn't listen well. Read the rested head answer and you will see that there is no ambiguity in the Prime Minister's remarks. As for Mr. From Roover, I think he has a short memory when I hear him criticizing the questioning of the decisions of the Michel I government. If there is one party that challenged Michel I's decisions until it called into question the very existence of this government, it is the N-VA! I therefore find this argument somewhat weak. As far as we are concerned, Prime Minister, we encourage you to continue to validate this interprofessional agreement as soon as possible in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. You rightly pointed out that it was a balanced agreement, both on purchasing power and other aspects and on SWT. On the one hand, there is a tightening, which will reduce the flow of a thousand people, and on the other hand, 220 workers who might be made redundant will still be able to enter the SWT. This is an agreement as a whole. It is like in politics: there is an agreement only when there is an agreement on everything. One cannot pick out one element. Anyone who fires the balanced agreement for one element prefers strikes and social conflict to social peace, above 4.54% more wages for 2.8 million private sector workers. You can hear it correctly: increase in purchasing power for 2.8 million employees, compared with 220 employees who can enter the SWT. That's what this is about. That shooting off with a view to electoral interests is irresponsible. We want the agreement to be implemented in its entirety if it is approved. We will play a loyal part in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u32	Prime Minister, you have a problem. This morning De Standaard revealed that the UN Sanctions Committee unanimously decided on 17 December 2018 that the interest rates should not be released by Belgium. Since that date, you have debated with us three times in the Chamber. I heard you say it was an interpretation dispute. I have heard you say wrongly that other countries have also paid interest. I have heard you promise that there will be absolute openness for Parliament. Today, however, I note that, despite these three occasions, you have not said at any time that the interpretation dispute was settled by the UN Sanctions Committee. Prime Minister, there are two possibilities. Either you knew that a decision had been made in New York and you failed to inform the Chamber. Or you didn't know because your foreign minister hadn't informed you. For a year and a half we have been looking for answers to four questions. How much money? Who got it? What happened to it? We still do not know the answer to these questions, but who decided in Belgium that these interest rates should be released? That has been the question of 2 billion since today, Prime Minister. If Libya demands that amount, it will be the Belgian taxpayer who will be allowed to cough it up. Prime Minister, did you know or did you not know? Can we really count on your full cooperation to find out who made that decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u33	Prime Minister, I do not know what is going on here in Parliament, but it is the third time that I have been standing here asking about the Libyan funds. So far we have still not received a decent answer. As representatives of the people, we are no longer the first state power. We are rather considered the fifth wheel on the wagon. They want to get rid of us as soon as possible. That may, I think, be the conclusion. I think that our questions as representatives of the people are better addressed to the journalists, because they can answer a number of questions. Then we can read in the newspapers what's missing from us, answers we don't get. If anyone ever dares to say that the Chamber controls the government, I'll ask if that's a silly joke. Prime Minister, on 14 December and 21 December 2018, you stated here that it was a matter of honour for you to inform the Chamber correctly and to share all the information with the Chamber. What, however, is evident on 17 December? The UN Sanctions Committee has decided that Belgium has indeed failed to comply with UN rules. Did you share that information with us? No. Who did share that with us? The reporters. Last week you also said that the Treasury gave an interpretation to the UN resolution. You even admitted that there were several interpretations possible. Last week, Prime Minister, there was only one interpretation possible, because on 17 December the Sanctions Committee said what it was like. I'm getting a weird feeling. Maybe you, too, Mr Van der Maelen. I get the feeling this isn't just about interest that's been released. At least we know they've been released, we don't know who and what, but I'm starting to feel like there's more to it. I even wonder whether it is only interest that has been released and whether it is no longer a matter of interest. I also wonder who needs to be protected here. Do people have to disappear from Parliament first, because otherwise there is a problem? There is only one solution, Prime Minister. Get some clarity. Check the accounts at Euroclear. Get the accounts from BNP Paribas and ING. Don't tell me it won't work, because in 2012, Minister Reynders could explain what was on those accounts to Libya's Foreign Minister. Prime Minister, please clarify today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us call things by their name: we are facing a state scandal. Libyan funds have been sent back to a nebula of actors still unknown at this stage, in a country ravaged by civil war, a country delivered to criminal organizations – a terrible playground for human traffickers – and to many other atrocities. Clearly, the position defended by certain administrative and political authorities is now swept away by the United Nations, swept away from the outset when they had frozen Libyan capital and interests, but also swept away on 17 December. We now know clearly that the Belgian State has committed both a legal and a political fault, which therefore incurs its responsibility. His image is now depraved – to resort to euphemism. You are the custodian of this image and responsibility, Prime Minister. Now we'll have to take the bull by the horns. So you have to take your responsibilities and tell us what you know about this case. Indeed, of two things one: either you were informed of this note from the UN Security Council Sanctions Committee – and then what did you do with it? – either you have not been informed – and in this case there is a problem of dysfunction at the very heart of your government. Prime Minister, we need answers!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u35	Prime Minister, I still remember the words you said here last week: 'I will make a point of honour to inform Parliament in a proper manner'. The least we can say is that Parliament has not been informed of a notice from the United Nations Security Council dated 17 December which clearly, firmly and definitively states that none of the revenue from the frozen funds in Belgium should have been thawed and sent outside. I agree with my colleagues' questions. How is it that in the meantime, when we have had a great deal of debate in plenary and committee, this Security Council notice has not been revealed to us when we are members of the Security Council and we are also serving this year as Vice-Chairman of the Libyan Sanctions Committee? We therefore know this leaflet perfectly well. On the other hand, Prime Minister, you remember your Foreign Minister's letter of 1 August 2012, informing the Libyan authorities that there were some EUR 14 billion here in Belgium. I have the response of the Libyan Foreign Minister. In any case, it looks like that and that's what a Libyan diplomat who posted this reply on his Facebook account last Tuesday, and who sends an end to not receiving to Belgium by saying: "No, Libyan assets here in Belgium cannot be used to repay Belgian companies. Belgian companies must respond and go directly to the contracting parties in Libya and be reimbursed there." I have the answer. In any case, it looks like it. It would obviously be interesting to have the original, because with the Internet, you are never sure. This answer can be found on a Libyan diplomat's Facebook account. Finally, I would like us, as parliamentarians, not to go and look for a few pieces of answers in relation to this case, which is a real scandal. What happened to these two billion euros? Why were they released? Why did only Belgium – I insist and confirm what I said last week – release these funds? What was the use of these funds? These are urgent and important answers that we are waiting for. At the same time, I would like to know when the report that was promised last week will be forwarded to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond with great force and precision and to insurgently oppose the absolutely unacceptable insinuations that have been made. In a first point, I would like to comment on the content. It concerns decisions taken at UN level, in particular sanctions against Libyan funds, in 2011. Mr Laaouej, those decisions were therefore taken under a previous legislature, under another prime minister, who then took full responsibility for this matter with his fellow ministers. The first point is that these events took place under the previous legislature. Secondly, on three occasions, I have had the opportunity to be asked in Parliament about the cooperation of the current government in the investigation of the facts in question. I have always indicated, without any ambiguity, my concern to cooperate faithfully with Parliament. That's what I did. That is what I am doing today, and that is what I will continue to do as long as I assume responsibility. Third important element. Mr Van der Maelen, you give the impression that I would have, in this rostrum, distorted the wording and the context, expressed doubts about interpretation. Yes, there is a debate on interpretations. As parliamentarians, you have had this debate in committee. Officials then explained that there were doubts as to the interpretation of the resolution. In the meantime, it has changed and become a new resolution. It's not about anything other than that. In the last three debates held in plenary, parliamentarians from both the opposition and the majority spoke. I can still hear you, Mr Dallemagne: the United Nations Sanctions Committee has made it clear that this is a mistake. Therefore, this note of 17 December does not provide any new information. This is the confirmation of what was said by the panel of experts in September; neither more, nor less, according to the information and my interpretation, on the basis of the data currently available to me. There is no question of concealing this note of 17 December, since it is published on a website. Here I hear a cry of orfray, according to which important information would have been hidden in Parliament. To put it in context: on 18 December, the government resigned. On 17 December, the note was published on a website. Having seen in the press this morning this information on the status of this note, I inquired. According to my information, the Treasury, on 20 December, fully assumed its responsibilities. There is no reason why I should have specific information about this. On 20 December - three days later - the Treasury confirmed the position taken by Belgium for more than a year, namely that it no longer releases the interests in question. I am 100% willing to be as loyal as possible to work with Parliament, but I do not want to play this kind of theatre or games. I have committed myself to the chairman of the committee. In accordance with my promise last week, I will provide a report for the various departments and stakeholders. There are hearings scheduled in committee on 15 March and I would therefore like to ensure that the report is available to Parliament as soon as possible, at least before 15 March. I really plead for a sense of responsibility. I repeat with great calm and serenity that the cases we are talking about occurred under a previous legislature. I was not in office as Prime Minister. I was informed of the facts, first by Prince Laurent, some time ago. He had sent me comments, in connection with this ASBL who had won a judicial trial that condemned the Libyan State. Each time, I sent him back to the appropriate authorities, the departments concerned in Finance and Foreign Affairs. Information has been systematically provided. I take note of the contradictions that have arisen in January, particularly in the head of officials who have spoken in committee. The press revealed statements that were quite different from those of the officials in question. This led me to consider that reports should be drawn up and provided to Parliament in a transparent manner; that is what I intend to do. However, I do not accept the insinuations made against me, Mr Van der Maelen. I tell you with all due respect for the experienced parliamentarian you are. I'm telling you, too, Mr. Dallemagne. These insinuations give the impression that I would lack loyalty to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u37	Prime Minister, you are referring to a previous government. The problem, however, lies in your government. The problem is that you were probably not informed by your Foreign Minister that there could no longer be any differences of interpretation, because the UN Sanctions Committee had unanimously confirmed the position of the UN Panel, which had adopted the same position in September 2018. Prime Minister, I know you. If you had known, I'm sure you would have told me here. But you have always left this in the middle and pretended that there was still room for discussion about the interpretation. You've got a hell of a problem. Either you have a credibility problem with this Chamber, or you are about to find that you are no longer able to maintain confidence in your Minister for Foreign Affairs. Prime Minister, you promise us a report. As I say to you, this report is for the spa group the lie test of this government. Because after a year and a half, after rubbing, pulling and dragging,...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u38	The fake e-mails about DOD! It's about your credibility!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u39	...we've been given pieces of information. Be sure, Prime Minister, we now have certain documents, and I wonder if we will see them in your report!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u40	Prime Minister, you will not stand for insinuations being made here. There is only one solution: to clarify the dossier as soon as possible, there will be no more insinuations. You say you will present the report on 15 March. So we have not received many answers. On 15 March we will have three weeks to get to the bottom of the matter, because then it will stop for us and it will be for the next Parliament. I hope, Prime Minister, that you will clarify the state of the accounts, what has happened to them and how much is on them. If not, the journalists may be of service to us and already request it. Maybe we will have an answer before 15 March. I can only conclude that this institution is not working, no institution is working. What are we still doing in Parliament? We'll be here in time for bacon and beans.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u41	Prime Minister, I don't think you've understood the problem you're facing. The Belgian State violated an injunction issued by the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations Security Council. These are the facts! One of your ministers, who has been successively in charge of Finance and Foreign Affairs, remains in denial to date. He tries by all means to pass on the hot potato to other ministers previously in office, or at present in office. A senior official obviously did not tell the truth in the Finance Committee, denied by material elements in possession of the press. And there is, above all, an ongoing instruction that tries to shed light on the destiny of these funds and on the responsibilities of those who have thawed capital and interests, when there was a ban. Prime Minister, what actions are you going to take today in concrete terms to work with Justice, to establish responsibilities? Are you going to become a civil party and provide justice with all the information it needs to establish responsibilities, regardless of who is responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u42	Prime Minister, of course your government is concerned. You said it yourself. The Director of the Treasury stopped the payment of revenue a year ago. I didn't know you took up your duties just a year ago! This government took office five years ago. Of course, income and interest continued to be distributed to Libyan funds and interests! Of course, they continued to disappear in nature! As the United Nations Security Council points out, they may have been used to fuel terrorism and war. You are concerned about this matter, Prime Minister, and it is in your best interest that all the clarity be made as soon as possible, particularly as regards the follow-up to this letter from the Libyan Foreign Minister and whether our companies have been reimbursed. We still don't know. Were they on the basis of these funds frozen in Belgium or on other funds? We still don't have answers. Parliamentarians are entitled to be angry with this omerta and with the fact that you are not assuming the responsibilities of your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u43	Prime Minister, today, unfortunately, being a woman means still earning 21% less than a man, for equal work. This also means 28% less pension. That also means that we can only hold 34 per cent of the leadership. That's enough! It's no longer possible. For this reason, on March 8, women will go down the street and strike to show everyone that when women stop, the world stops. Prime Minister, on that day, we will be on strike, on strike from work, from care to others, from consumption and, finally, from this Women's Day - which we do not want to hear about any more than these chocolates and roses. We will be on strike for our rights that today, in 2019, are still not acquired: the right to the same salary, to the same pension, to reconcile our professional and private life, to dispose of our body, to be protected against all forms of violence. I know that the strike is neither your strong nor your cup of tea because you prefer minimum service. Moreover, it is the same minimum service that you have provided in the defence of women's rights under this legislature. The consequences are disastrous: a tightening of the conditions for access to the pension, no progress in the recognition of close caregivers, no progress in favour of decriminalisation of abortion. Would I dare to tell the president of the MR that, in the constitution of your lists, here too, you have provided the minimum service. Prime Minister, at the PS, we have approved texts on pay equity to promote a better balance between birth and parental leave and in terms of combating violence against women. I'll only have one question for you, Prime Minister. You have three weeks left. What are you finally going to do about women's rights? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u44	I thank you, Mrs Grovonius, for pointing out that this battle for equality between women and men must be permanent. Of course, I cannot share the last part of your speech. I find it somewhat caricatural and radical. I would like to recall a few facts. First of all with regard to the question of employment. It is important to fight to ensure that access to employment is sustained for the most vulnerable women. I am thinking in particular of single-parent families. Many women are affected by this situation. To say that nothing has been done is not correct. Indeed, we have used the tax lever, for example, to ensure that tax-exempt allowances are raised for parents in single-parent families. We have taken steps to support child care expense deductions. Secondly, in the area of pensions, we have also acted and our figures are indisputable - they are those of the SPF Pensions. They show that women retired between 2014 and 2017 experienced a 14 per cent increase in the amount of their pension. For men, that was 6.03 per cent. As a result, growth was higher for women than for men. For the self-employed, the pension rose by 5.7 per cent for men and 24.5 per cent for women. These figures from the SPF Pensions show that remedial action is being taken on pension issues. As for equal pay, it's a fair fight. We must try to lead him, beyond ideological divisions. Progress has been made, but it is insufficient. These are the figures of the Institute for Equal Opportunities. The situation is improving, but we are not yet equal. The gap was 9 per cent in the past, and today it is 8 per cent according to the figures we have. There are other mechanisms, such as the issue of parental and family leave. These devices must be activated to try to better combine family and working life. Looking at employment figures, the employment rate of women without children is similar to that of men. On the other hand, there is a great gap for women with children. Finally, I hope that Parliament, together with the government, will be able to take action on the basis of women's rights. I continue to believe that this would be a useful step in attempting, in a dispassionate, objective and rational manner, to continue to take effective measures that advance things. Finally, in management bodies, for example, I see that in recent years there has been a threefold increase in the presence of women on boards of directors. That's not enough. The chairmen of the executive committees remain very much male, but there are still remarkable developments in this area. In the federal civil service, there are 52 per cent women and 48 per cent men. I plead for a nuanced look on both sides. I don't claim that in four years, everything has been done. There's still a lot of work to do, but things have been done. I hope that, beyond traditional divisions, progress can be made in the service of gender equality more than in the service of a political battle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u45	Prime Minister, thank you for these points of answer. What you need to understand is that today, we women have had enough! Enough of being paid less than men! It's enough that we're constantly downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're downgraded, we're Enough for us to mingle constantly with our bodies, with our lives! Enough of all this physical and psychological violence! Enough of all these stereotypes and discriminations! Prime Minister, we have had enough! That is why, on 8 March, we will be on strike. We will show that when women stop, the world stops. Unfortunately, to date, your policies have not helped us in our rights!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u46	Mr President, Minister, is it normal for a housekeeper in Belgium to pay more taxes than a multinational? That is the question. This is in any case a situation that the PTB has been denouncing for years. Indeed, Belgium is a tax haven for millionaires and multinationals, but it is a tax hell for workers. Today, after the European Commission, it is the special committee of the European Parliament that denounces it. It has just published a report in which seven Member States of the European Union are mentioned as tax havens, namely Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands and Belgium. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium! This is not so surprising for the PTB since we have been publishing the top 50 of the biggest tax gifts offered to large Belgian companies for ten years. In these ten years, what is the average rate paid by these multinationals benefiting from Belgian paradise taxation? There is a question of 2% tax, while a worker pays 30 to 40% tax, plus VAT, excise duties, municipal taxes, etc. As an example cited in our top 50, the holding companies of the Brère family, by the late Albert Frère (CNP and GLL), paid 152 euros of tax for a profit of 3.3 billion euros, i.e. less than the workwoman who cleans the premises of the two companies mentioned above. I know you, Minister. You're going to tell me that when he was Prime Minister, Elio Di Rupo went to Davos to brag about notional interests with the big multinationals. That's true, but this kind of answer is a little easy to escape your responsibilities. What did you do, minister, to make multinationals pay a fair tax? Nothing. You even helped them pay less taxes. I am referring to your corporate tax reform. SMEs are the big losers of this reform and multinationals are the big winners. Take the deduction of capital gains on shares. You have withdrawn this deduction for a series of SMEs, but on the other hand, you have extended it to 100% for multinationals. That is your policy and that of your government! I only have two questions for you, minister. Is it normal for a housekeeper in Belgium to pay more taxes than a multinational? Is it normal for an SME in Belgium to pay more taxes than a multinational?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u47	Minister, Belgium is one of seven European countries that facilitates aggressive tax avoidance. That is a particular conclusion from the report of a committee of inquiry of the European Parliament. Belgium is a tax haven: it would be good news if that were true for all Belgians, for all working people. Unfortunately, this tax paradise only exists for a few people, namely for the great wealth and the multinationals. Some will find that conclusion surprising, but anyone who has followed the Panama Commission in Parliament knows better. In the Panama Commission, there have been many proposals from the experts and from my group who have simply been pushed under the table by your party, by CD&V and by the N-VA. I cannot blame you, Minister De Croo, but your predecessor was on the brakes every time at European level about combating international tax avoidance. He even received a reprimand from Europe several times. Today's conclusion is simple: we are a tax paradise for multinationals and great abilities. The question is: do we want to? I think we absolutely must reject that. By making them pay more, a normal tax, we might also be able to open paradise for those who work today by reducing income tax for them. That is the challenge, Minister. The major problem at European level is, of course, the rule of unanimity: tax measures must be adopted by everyone. The VBO has advocated that they be retained. I would like to hear your opinion on this, because I think we should get rid of it. Mr Minister, do you think it is, first of all, a disgrace that our country is a fiscal paradise for some? Secondly, will you convince the government to abolish the unanimity rule at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u48	Mr Vanvelthoven, you referred to it as a special report. I admit that many points in it amaze me. Our country is placed there in a list of seven countries on the basis of three entries in that report; I have seen a preliminary version of the report, because the final report is not yet available. First of all, we are talking about excess profit rulings. That's right, but it's also something of the past. After all, that was abolished in our country about two years ago. We are therefore referring to a measure which is no longer applicable today. Secondly, it is said that our country is making a lot of international investments in relation to our GDP. So we would be a tax haven, because we are successful in attracting foreign investment. Perhaps this is done on the basis of our location, our multilingualism or the quality of the workers we have to offer here. I find it really strange to conclude that we are a tax haven because we make a lot of investments. A third reason is kind of bizarre. It is said that we do not simply give people who invest in our country the nationality of Belgium on the basis of these investments. It seems logical to me that we do not. If we did, we'd be a tax haven. I therefore think that the elements in the report are particularly light. Mr Van Hees, it is true that history has its rights. In the past, Belgium's techniques were creative enough to attract international investment. Nevertheless, this government has clearly taken huge steps to ensure that large companies pay their share of taxes. For example, rulings with companies active in tax havens are no longer allowed. We have lowered the tax rate for businesses, which has resulted in a shift tax from large businesses to small businesses. As a result of the ISOC reform, small businesses have had much more net benefits. Multinationals are subject to a minimum tax. This is a measure that I have pushed to the level of government. In recent years, our country has been a pioneer in various anti-abuse provisions, for example limiting the ATAD interest. You mentioned, Mr Vanvelthoven, the rule of unanimity at European level. This was discussed in the Ecofin Council three weeks ago. There was a discussion on whether certain tax issues should not be decided through qualified majority voting. I said at that Council that I was open to discussion on this because I believe that the unanimity rule today is blocking very many good initiatives in Europe. The fact that the VBO has a different opinion on this may well be. In any case, I have noticed that three or four countries were prepared to talk about this; Germany, to my positive surprise, too. At the moment, however, the enthusiasm for this in Europe is relatively limited. In conclusion, Mr van Hees, I think that you are making a cartoon of this report and that, as always, you are using this report to tax more. For you, any report is a reason to tax more. I think that if we want to create more prosperity and more jobs, it's not by taxing more, it's by having a fairer tax. That was the policy of this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u49	The PTB would therefore like to tax more, but who has increased the VAT on electricity from 6 to 21 %, except for your government? Don't come talk to us about taxing more! For the rest, you're wrong, Minister. You are wrong about the tax niches that would have been removed by the corporate tax reform. Tax niches such as RTD (revenues definitively taxed), capital gains on shares that cost billions. All that remains. You're wrong about the minimum tax. This minimum tax is true for some marginal deductions but for essential deductions such as RTD and the capital gains I have just mentioned it does not work. You are wrong in saying that this corporate tax reform has benefited SMEs. SMEs benefited from 2% of the reduction in corporate tax rates, 98% went to multinationals. Do the math, you'll see! Finally, you say that excess profit rulings are ancient history. This is not true since a recent European judicial decision is, in a way, to congratulate Belgium, which has won its appeal and to say that thanks to this victory, Belgium can now repay 900 million euros to thirty multinationals! Well done, good win, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u50	The question remains, of course, what do we really want? You say that our country wants a lot of investors and wants to attract new investments. That's what we all want. If, however, the tax aspect has to be distinguished in Europe, then we are doing the wrong thing, because that is a race to the bottom. In the preliminary report of the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it is true that we are talking about the large number of investments in our country. Why is the head office established here and the employment remains elsewhere? The reason is simple: they pay less taxes here than at the place where they effectively develop their activity. That is the mentality that we in Europe really need to get rid of. If we do not get rid of it, we will continue to compete, the race to the bottom goes on, working people will have to pay more and the big assets and multinationals will continue to escape taxes. I expect from you, and certainly from the next government, that Belgium will once again play a leading role. The fact that you are open to abolishing the unanimity rule is a good thing in itself. I do not know whether that also means that you want that rule to be abolished, because open to discussion is something other than wanting to abolish a regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next legislative term, we really need to do something to put an end to European international competition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u51	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will see the various statements made in Parliament today and in the past. The current legislature is very intense and intensively engaged in fair taxation. This principle must also be applied to a very topical dossier, namely the dossier of sport and football tax and sports and football benefits, with a lot of special social security and tax arrangements. Parliament's task is to find a new balance, giving all the opportunities for development to the various sports sectors, but also to expect a fair contribution from everyone. We are fortunate to live in a country where inequality is relatively small. However, there must be a political response to inadequate excesses and derailments. This certainly concerns the position of brokers and the fees to be paid to brokers in the football sector. After all, the Pro League can recommend that the players should pay the fees themselves to the brokers. However, it must be said that many clubs are not yet bound by this recommendation and that they are applying the very dubious principle of direct payment by clubs to the brokers. Of course, that's not normal. This is an achievement that only benefits the players. It therefore falls under the heading "Advantages all types'. If it can be confirmed once again in writing that this is an advantage of all kinds, it is clear that this heading must also be mentioned on the pay sheet, that a holding tax should be applied to it and that the benefit is properly valued. There are sports sectors that are very good students in this area. Paying broker fees and management fees is done in cycling in a very correct and transparent way. I would like to ask you this, Minister. Can you confirm that these fees are indeed subject to company premia? Can you confirm that the brokers' fees cannot be paid directly by the clubs and that the tax authorities actively monitor them? After all, it seems as if there is a blind eye at that point. I would like to give the tip that this will easily enable millions of euros to be raised for the benefit of the state budget. Are you prepared to organise a specific check on this? Are you therefore prepared to instruct the administration to check the real estate charges?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u52	Mr President, Mr Deseyn, I would like to thank you for your question on the taxableness of fees paid to football brokers. Whether that football broker receives a fee in respect of the services provided and whether it is paid by the football club or the player, does not really matter. That money received in the present case constitutes a taxable income. Either this is done via an outgoing invoice and then the situation is clear, or it must be done via a sheet 281.50 and it must be included in the taxable income. I think the problem you are raising is pertinent. I will therefore ask my administration for an in-depth investigation into the fees of football brokers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u53	Minister, you are right to call for applause, because I believe that it is right to encourage the investigation of unfresh practices and insufficient fair play. It is not possible that an individual release for a player from the club is not properly valued as an advantage all nature. This week there were stories from the sector about black money again. We count on fair play more than ever. We hope that everyone will do their bit, if not this Parliament will have to react vigorously. However, it is good to do so in consultation with the sports sector itself. After all, it is up to us to do something about correct development opportunities for the sport sectors and young people. If everyone plays the game correctly, we'll get far.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u54	Mr President, Minister, as you know, security is a priority for my group. This means that we must not only protect our country, but also our citizens from those who have knowingly chosen and willingly turned their backs on our society. Last week I said this in connection with the trial of Belgian IS fighters in Syria. We strongly advocated the establishment of an international tribunal in the region, and I am pleased that there has been a consensus on this. Minister, we note that some women have also opted for ISIS and left there with their children or have had children there. On these women too, my party's position has always been very clear. Children can, on the one hand, absolutely not pay for their parents' mistakes; that is beyond question. On the other hand, having children cannot be an excuse to gain access to our territory. We also adopted this attitude when the legislation on false recognition was adopted. The fact that someone is getting older does not necessarily mean that parent is gaining access to our territory. We were therefore very surprised to learn that the court of appeal had obliged our country to use all its resources to bring those IS women back. I am pleased that the government has appealed against this and has finally been right, which is good news. This makes it clear that we are not abandoning the children. We believe that children up to the age of 10 should be effectively repatriated and that this should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis for older children. We will not oblige families to separate parents and children, but for those who seek safe accommodation for their children, there must be, as it were, an air bridge. Minister, will the government maintain its position on IS women? I suppose so, but I would have liked to have heard the confirmation. A European, international coalition must be formed with a view to establishing an international tribunal. Can you explain whether progress has been made in this area? Will other European countries join us in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Van Cauter, the judgment of the Brussels Appeals Court of 27 February against the interim ruling in the Wielandt/Aboulal case confirms that the Belgian State is not obliged to repatriate Belgians in camps in Syria. It's obvious. We have always said that, but it has now been confirmed by the Brussels appeal court. This does not change the Belgian Government's view that the aim should be to actively repatriate children under the age of ten. The same applies to minors from 10 years of age, provided that an individual evaluation is carried out. My services have been in contact with international organisations, NGOs and various authorities for a long time to enable such evacuation. Other EU Member States were also asked about their experience in this area. It should be noted that no Member State has so far been able to evacuate only children from the camps, as the group which controls the camps requires that adults be repatriated at the same time. More generally, the Belgian Government continues to examine all possibilities for the correct trial of FTFs, possibly in an international context. I have been in contact in Geneva with the President of the International Red Cross, Peter Maurer. We are thinking of cooperation between a local judicial order, for example in Iraq, and an international organisation. This has been the case in Cambodia in the past, but also in other countries. We are still carrying out such a study with different partners within the European Union. I repeat that the Belgian Government continues to take the same position and we are pleased that it was possible to obtain confirmation from the Brussels appeal court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It seems as if something which, according to public opinion and the media, had to be dealt with urgently last week has just disappeared. It is important that you keep following this up actively, so that if the United States does withdraw, we do not end up in a situation where IS fighters are released in Syria. We must be ready to act properly at that time. I would therefore ask you to continue with the proactive attitude you have adopted in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u57	Minister, in a few weeks it will be three years since Islam terror struck this country, with murder and mutilation in Maalbeek and Zaventem. Three years later, security checks at the airport appear to be unsatisfactory. The safety of airport terminals, baggage control and passenger screening are in the hands of a private company. It is again controlled on behalf of the government by the Directorate-General for Aviation. Turns out what? More than twenty years after Schalkse Ruiters, a new skilful rider with a credible counterfeit bomb belt has easily passed the security. It was not a BV, but a so-called mystery passer, which was used to check the procedures. One then pretends to be an ordinary passenger, with the difference that a prohibited item is smuggled along. Apparently, it works too often, without any problem. The mystery pastor testified in the newspaper today, and I quote: "That same day, I also bypassed security twice with a false employee badge and could smuggle a knife unnoticed." A knife, Minister, that's all the Muslim terrorists needed on 9/11. Mr. Secretary, is it true that the bomb belt incident was reported to you in October last year? Has the FPS Mobility been able to look into a report from Brussels Airport about this? Is it true that the results of airport security checks are so pitiful that the target, a 70% exposure rate, is rarely reached? Is it true that the mystery passers-by nowadays have to make less effort to hide weapons, so that the tests become easier and the targets can be achieved better? Finally, this is the most important question on the eve of the crocus holiday with 40 000 passengers: what are you doing to ensure the safety of the many passengers and of the staff of the airport in Zaventem? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u58	Minister, in March it is three years since the most horrible attacks on our soil took place that I can remember, and hopefully that will be the end of it. I believe that many steps have been taken under the previous government, the Michael I government, in the area of security policy, including for vulnerable buildings. I am thinking of the camera legislation, the control of passenger data, the law on direct monitoring and the organisation of the shared database. So you understand my surprise when I read in the newspaper this morning that mystery passers-by of the Directorate-General for Aviation would have smuggled in a bomb belt or a knife, and that it would also be possible to use false badges at the airport. We know that a target of 70 % is set for intercepting mystery passers-by. Your security department would have achieved his goal if he intercepted 7 out of 10 mystery passers-by. I must say that does not entirely reassure me. I use the verb "would" because this afternoon I heard again in the radio news that it would not be true, that there would be no bomb belt. That incident was reported to you in October, but there would be no evidence. Certain security services would be completely unaware. Firstly, what steps have you taken in recent years to increase the security of passengers at the airport? Second of all, do you have any security figures? If so, who do you share it with? I'll get them from you in the next few days. What's the big question for me here is what's actually true. Who's telling the truth? Is it that whistleblower? Is it the union? Is that you? I'm very curious to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u59	Minister, this morning there was an echo of a potential safety issue at the airport. Since the 22 March attacks, much has been done to improve security. However, according to this information, a "mystery passenger" would have managed to pass the Brussels Airport security checks with a fake explosive belt. If these facts are proven, it is clear that this raises concerns. According to the press, these controls are the responsibility of the company G4S, which employs approximately 900 people at Zaventem airport. Under anonymity, this "mystery passenger" states that the belt was credible, with wires, a detonator and a substance of the same intensity as real explosives. The individual claimed that he was wearing equipment related to his back pain. On the same day, he could have bypassed security twice with a fake staff badge and passed with a knife without being noticed. Minister, are you aware of these events? Has the Directorate-General for Air Traffic been informed of this? What measures have been taken? Are you considering further steps to avoid risks? Is the caretaker undertaking subject to regular audits or tests to ensure optimal security? What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u60	Colleagues, security is and remains one of this government's priorities. With regard to security at Brussels Airport, it is the responsibility of Brussels Airport Company (BAC) to ensure that the security firms in charge of the security orders carry out their duties in a rigorous manner. The Directorate-General for Aviation of the FPS Mobility only carries out second-line inspections and audits. In addition, external audits carried out by supranational bodies reinforce those control activities. The government made the choice, prior to the attacks of 22 March 2016, to significantly strengthen security by entrusting the new DAB (Security Directorate) Directorate of the Federal Police with armed security missions. More than 50 police officers have been assigned to this task. The implementation of this additional capability is governed by a protocol that sets out the new operational division of duties at the airport between the federal police and LAC services. This Protocol entered into force on 1 December 2018. The new division of labour raises social and operational concerns among LAC airport inspectors. The security reform sought by the former Minister of Security and Home Affairs is a complex issue that remains on the table. It was in this capacity that I took the initiative to bring together on October 2, 2018 the LAC employer, the unions and the DGTA (Air Transport Directorate-General). A trade union representative then referred to an incident in the context of the security control procedure. It was not possible to know at what time the incident would have occurred or whether or not it was an exercise. On the same day, I immediately directed the DGTA to verify the nature and conformity of the information. The competent DGTA services – the Aviation Security service – immediately carried out the initial investigative duties. The necessary documentation has been provided by LAC and is still under investigation. Having found no evidence of a well-known fact as of 1 October 2018, DGTA has expanded the scope of its all-out investigations, which explains why they are still under way. Of course, the dossier deserves our full attention. I will not fail to pay the necessary attention and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u61	Minister, according to the unions, there is indeed a report on an incident involving a bomb belt. The research is ongoing and the FPS Mobility must certainly have access to the reports of Brussels Airport. After all, it would not be a man from the Directorate-General for Aviation, but it would be someone from Brussels Airport itself. As you pointed out, they also carry out checks themselves. So that investigation is necessary. If the alarm bell is ringing about major security risks, then you must act. After all, safety is a priority. I should also like to say that at the same airport in Zaventem an IT operator from the airport has been on hunger strike for more than 14 days now in protest against the government. Three years after the facts, the victims of these atrocious attacks are still not given the necessary follow-up care. It takes years for procedural changes to take place. The attacks are now almost three years behind us. It is unbelievable that that is apparently long enough to pay so little attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u62	Minister, I find it very difficult, emotionally and rationally, for me to put my question to the Minister for Mobility. It seems as if the Minister for the Interior and Security is responsible for security on one side of the line. However, the Minister for Mobility will take over this task from the point of view of passenger checks. That's very strange. It seems as if we are cutting the security of such crucial and vulnerable buildings in half. Together with my party and our former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Security, I am very much in favour of unity of command; I do not need to remind you of the discussions we have had on this issue. This is the responsibility of one person, the Minister of Security. We would even dare to go one step further. That does not have to be confined to our national airport; we also need to think about doing so for Securail or for cybercrime units. That will be a very important point for us in the coming weeks and months. We sincerely hope that one day we will be able to put that on a negotiating table.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u63	Minister, thank you for the information you provided. The issue of airport security - but not only at airports - is a crucial issue, given the previous dramatic events at Brussels Airport. Your answer reinforces me in the idea that you are following this situation. Somewhere, this incident will help us to further improve the situation. I know you do it at the main stations for international trips as well. We'll follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u64	We have come to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u65	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u66	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks' time, all the citizens of the Member States of the European Union will be called upon to go to the polls to elect their representatives to the European Parliament. As we know, this vote is too often considered to be second order. In our society, its concomitance with other elections and the mandatory nature of voting limit this phenomenon, but in many other States the participation and importance attached to this democratic event is weakened from election to election. In this context, the Council of the European Union decided to amend the 1975 Act on elections for the European Parliament. The text we are about to vote on today is intended to ratify this decision. The objective is clear: to strengthen citizen participation in European elections, to raise awareness of the European character of this election and to modernise certain aspects of European electoral legislation. Several steps will be taken to do so. First, a mandatory electoral threshold of 2 to 5 % will be introduced in Member States with more than 35 seats. This concerns a minority of countries and of course we are not concerned. Secondly, Member States will be encouraged to take the measures they deem necessary to enable their nationals residing in a third country to participate in the European elections. Similarly, they will have to provide for sanctions against citizens voting in several Member States. Member States will also be able, subject to certain conditions, to set up different forms of voting - in particular via the Internet - and will be able to display the names or logos of European political parties on ballot papers. Finally, each State will have to designate a competent contact authority to exchange data on citizens seeking to vote or stand as candidates in a Member State of which they are not nationals. As you can see, these measures are in the direction of a rapprochement between the citizen and the European Union and aim, in the future, to restore the taste of these elections to European voters. During the debates that took place in the Committee on External Relations on 12 February 2019, several points were raised by our colleagues. Mrs Grovonius, for the PS, asked what new developments would be introduced in the procedure in order to allow Belgians living abroad to vote and prevent them from voting in several Member States. Mr. Van Peteghem, for the CD&V, after having indicated the positive aspect of this text with regard to the link between citizens and the European Union, asked what would be the situation with regard to the distribution of seats after Brexit. Mr. Dallemagne, for the CDH, asked which States would be affected by the electoral threshold and asked about its objective. For the MR, I regretted that the reform had not been used to allocate British seats to a European constituency. I also stressed the strengthening of the links between Belgians living abroad and the fact that Belgium is offering this reform. Ms Capoen, for the N-VA, felt that few changes were relevant to Belgium. She stated that her party was not in favour of the electoral threshold in that it undermined equal opportunities between political parties. She also wondered about the implementation of electronic voting from abroad. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a great deal of guidance in response to these interventions. He first recalled that the law of 17 November 2016 amending the Electoral Code had already made several important amendments with regard to the vote of Belgians residing abroad. For example, in the May elections, residents of non-EU countries will be able to participate in the election of Members of the European Parliament. Those residing in a Member State may also choose to vote in that country or in Belgium. In order to avoid double voting, an information exchange system has been set up. With regard to the distribution of seats after the Brexit, if it takes place, this will have no impact on Belgium. With regard to the introduction of electronic voting, finally, it is still being developed for Belgians residing abroad and will therefore not be operational for the elections of May 2019. At the end of these debates, all the articles were adopted in the Committee on External Relations by 10 votes with 3 abstentions, as well as the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u67	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u68	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3495/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3495/3) The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act concerning the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976 and amending the Act of 23 March 1989 concerning the election of the European Parliament'. The title was amended by the committee in draft law approving Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2018/994 of 13 July 2018 amending the Act on the election of Members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, annexed to Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EEC, Euratom of 20 September 1976, and amending the Act of 23 March 1989 on the election of the European Parliament." The draft law contains 5 articles. The bill has five articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u69	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Dallemagne. He shall refer to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3459/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3459/4) The title in Dutch was amended by the Commission in draft law approving the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, done in Brussels on 24 November 2017.' The Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, was concluded in Brussels on 24 November 2017.' The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u73	Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u74	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u75	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3460/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3460/1) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u76	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u77	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u78	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u79	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u80	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3461/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3461/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u81	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u82	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs An Capoen, rapporteur, referred to the written report. Mrs Pas, your entry on the list of speakers did not get to this point, for which we apologize. You'll have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to refer to the second treaty that will be adopted this evening during the votes. On 16 June 2016, a majority of you, but not by the Flemish Interest, passed a law laying down various economic provisions. The reason for our vote against was when the treaty was before us today. After all, the thick bundle of the bill on various economic provisions contained a commitment to ratify that treaty. Today's the day. The draft law that you are going to approve today, you will agree to the treaty. Allow me, as I did on 16 June 2016, to outline again today what it is really about. As far as patent applications are concerned, the situation for Belgium is as follows. The European Patent Office uses three official languages for examining and granting patents, namely English, German and French. In practice, the vast majority of patent applications and of European patents are drawn up in English. I understand that it is very cumbersome for many companies and it costs a lot to request many translations. However, the validity of patents in the countries which are members of the European Patent Convention requires the translation of English into the national language or into one of the national languages. For our country, this means that an English text must be translated into Dutch, French or German, because the English text has no legal value in Belgium. Firstly, it is questionable that it was decided at the time that not all the official languages in Europe can be regarded as official languages. This status was granted only to English, German and French. However, if it was intended to reduce the number of official languages for financial reasons, it is not clear to me why, for example, French was recognised as an official language. At present, only 5% of patent applications are submitted in French, while more than 80% of applications are submitted in English. If one really wanted to work cost-effectively, one should have dealt with it in a different way and, for example, one should have recognised it in only one language. In the meantime, this so-called London Protocol seeks to at least partially waive the requirement of translation into one of the official country languages. Colleagues, what is the most negative aspect for Flanders? Dutch sits for translations in a double regime. Countries which have one of the official languages as national languages cannot request further translation. This applies, among other things, to France, Germany, Ireland and Belgium. A country like the Netherlands may require a Dutch translation for the conclusions of the patents, but in Belgium the perverse effect is that one will not be able to demand a translation into Dutch because French is already an official language of the European Patent Office. This makes the Flemings, the majority in this country, the only language group in Europe that cannot be translated into its own language. It is not the first time that this London protocol has been ratified. An attempt has already been made in 2008. Then it was even discussed in the Senate. The Flemish Interest strongly opposed this at that time. Fortunately, there were early elections at the time, which prevented the Treaty from being ratified. Colleagues, we were supported in that resistance by the colleagues of N-VA. They literally protested at all levels. Geert Bourgeois threatened a conflict of interest in the Flemish Parliament. Frieda Brepoels felt in the European Parliament that Europe should be responsible for the costs, because there were enough alternatives to ensure that a Dutch translation would not incur additional costs for our companies. There was also Theo Francken in the federal parliament. In discussing your commitment to ratify this protocol, I added and read his press release at the time. The comment was justified. I am therefore very curious, ladies and gentlemen, what will be the voting behaviour of the N-VA today. You are with this Michael administration, unlike your attitude in 2008, when you literally resisted at all levels, 180 degrees. On 16 June 2016, you approved the commitment to ratify this Convention with no criticism. Mr Klaps was then fiercely defending the treaty on these banks. The year 2016 is already a few years ago. There are elections ahead. That is the period when the N-VA gets Community outbursts. I'm very curious if you're going to make another turn. I am certainly counting on the strength of change of thought to see you vote against today. There are plenty of arguments. You put them on the table in 2008. The Flemish Interest still supports the same principle, in 2008, in 2016 but also in 2019. We find it unacceptable that our politicians sacrifice the Dutch language in the name of the so-called higher European interests and that the protocol merely supports the interests of the large European states. That can't be the intention. We will certainly not approve the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u84	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u85	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3493/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3493/3) The title was amended by the Commission in draft legislation approving the following international instruments on intellectual property: 1° The International Convention for the Protection of Varieties of Plants of 2 December 1961, as revised in Geneva on 10 November 1972, 23 October 1978 and 19 March 1991; 2° The Convention on the Application of Article 65 of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents, done in London on 17 October 2000.' The title has been amended by the committee in draft law approving the following international intellectual property acts: 1. The International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants of December 2, 1961, as revised at Geneva on November 10, 1972, October 23, 1978 and March 19, 1991; 2. The Agreement on the Application of Article 65 of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents, done at London on October 17, 2000." The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u87	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u88	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3421/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3421/3) The draft law has two articles. The bill has two articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u90	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Piedboeuf, reporter, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will abstain from voting on this draft. So we will not approve it. For us, this draft, with the budget increases in particular, is an illustration and a harbinger of the budgetary derailment that awaits us. In fact, the current Minister of Finance warned against a budgetary slippage when he took office. The worst of all is that this budgetary derailment is the result of a series of very well-aware choices made by this minority government, this amputation government in current affairs. The first conscious choice was that Open Vld, CD&V and MR came to a majority in the Chamber. Those parties have put their biggest and most loyal ally on the line by forming a majority of change, which blew up confidence in the government. However, last year, despite the fact that 2018 had been a lost year in the fiscal field, the Swedish coalition had reached a federal level after a budget balance, thanks to the many initiatives of the good policies of previous years. It is a very regrettable matter, but when the majority of the change was formed, the parties concerned knew very well what the consequences would be. It was a very conscious choice. The second conscious choice was that with the rapidly formed minority government that minority government had to be formed very quickly, because our country absolutely had to be bound in Marrakesh without making a declaration of government and not asking for confidence in the Chamber. Despite a question by two thirds of Members of Parliament in that sense, a government declaration was refused with a vote of confidence. The minority government deliberately chose not to ask for trust and therefore not to be able to work any further. Thirdly, it was a very conscious choice not to take any initiative after the government's resignation. For example, no attempt was made to form a new coalition, nor was it chosen, as in any other normal country where a government can no longer function and falls, to simply go to the electorate. In a normal country, elections are immediately held in such cases, but in this country it is clearly impossible or impossible to do so. For example, the choice was deliberately made to do nothing for months and to muddle further. Fourthly, it was the conscious choice not to take any initiative, even in the minority government. There was no search for well-chosen savings, although the minority parties know that they can always find us as a partner for savings, as we have consistently insisted on spending savings. You won't. And the other option, going left-hand and finding a partner in the left-hand parties to close the fiscal gap with tax increases, which they are always prepared to do, was not chosen either. It was explicitly chosen to rest in the facts, to do nothing at the expense of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, we normally have current issues after the elections, when the electorate has spoken and the cards are shaken, when we are looking for an active coalition. The elections are then over, all the twitching is over, people are looking for cooperation. In this case, that is not the case. In this case, a deliberate choice was made for ongoing cases prior to elections, to enter into pending cases for a very long period of time, for more than a hundred days, pending elections. What does one get if one goes into current cases before elections? Then we get a sintering Klaa policy. That's what we're getting here. There you see one initiative after another, despite the current cases and despite the fact that budgetary constraints are very tight. There is the announcement by Minister of Finance De Croo to lower VAT on digital newspapers. Is that possible in current cases? All of a sudden one can apparently distribute money in this area or generate less revenue. There was the decision of liberal minister De Backer to reduce the licensing costs for wireless connections. That is something I have been asking for for nine years, but it has not been honoured for budgetary reasons. Now we are in business, now we are very tightly bound and suddenly we are able to do so. It is also the deliberate choice of this residual government to leave all the royal decisions of Minister Peeters, royal decisions of the labor deal, royal decisions that would strengthen our activation policy, which would increase our level of effectiveness and thus have a positive effect on the budget, in Kris Peeters' shuffle. What is more, there is now even a desire to glue the social partners' consultation with just a handful of taxpayers' money and inactivation measures, such as a delay in the tightening of the SWT. One can now suddenly play sintering class, derail things and make a number of deliberate choices in which the budget is the child of the account. In conclusion, the only initiatives taken so far from that minority government have a fairly high sintering class content. That is a budget which is not at the moment of concern. The cost is for the next generation. The generation today argues for the climate is the child off the bill because of the lack of budgetary orthodoxy of this minority government. That is why we will not approve this amendment to the Financial Act. Of course not because we would not want extra money to be made available to pay pensions. That is obvious, and that is why we will abstain, but we cannot accept a deliberate decision not to close the budgetary gap in other ways, not to take any initiative and simply to rest in it and let it rot. We're not in on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u92	Mr President, I will only answer Mr Dedecker's questions. I'm very surprised not shocked, because there aren't many things that shock me about this statement. It is as if he is trying to escape his responsibility, for the fact that the N-VA has consciously decided to leave the government and has consciously chosen this situation of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u93	Fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u94	You know a lot about fake news. I also hear Mr.Dedecker talking about the new generation and the costs of this government. This gives me the opportunity to recall a discussion that we had in the Finance Committee, during which we were entitled to a frontal attack on the budgets added for the budgetary adjustment of the Finance Act 1 on, for example, Mrs De Block's asylum policy, which would add the EUR 62.3 million. This allowed me to explain to Mr Dedecker a clear point: the amounts added today are for the three-quarters those which we had to add to Mr Franken's asylum policy. So this has nothing to do with a new policy. So, it's good to tweet shortcuts to shake public opinion and come to the gallery to explain that you're worried about our children, but in this case, we're still in the maneuver, we're still running and we're not running off on fake news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u95	You have a point, Madam Secretary, you know a lot about fake news. That's right, because we hear a reversal of the facts here. The initiative to reach a change-over majority and to blow up the government was not an initiative of the N-VA. That was an initiative of your party, Madam Secretary, along with your coalition colleagues. You're gonna blow this place up with a power shift. You know that very well. Moreover, it would be a great punishment for one party to be responsible for a budgetary derailment on its own. That can't be right. The budgetary slippage, as I have just explained, is the result of a number of deliberate choices made by your party and your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u96	Mr President, I join Madam Secretary of State. We saw here in December that the N-VA left the government and refused to approve the budget approved in committee here in plenary. The N-VA refused. There have been discussions with the Prime Minister behind the scenes to do so, but your party has declined to do so, Mr Dedecker. If you say now that it is our fault that the budget is derailed, then you are turning everything around. I feel shame in your place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u97	It takes two to tango, Mr Vandenput. You know that. If you want to make an agreement on a budget, that is an agreement on everything. We have asked for the agreed very good policy of the Swedish coalition to continue in its entirety, but what have we got? Both Kris Peeters and Maggie De Block announced a complete policy switch. You cannot be surprised that we do not authorize the government to pursue a policy other than the one adopted. In fact, we have been proved right. The royal decisions that remain in the Kris Peeters slide are now countless. He is sure to grow out of the royal decisions agreed in the previous Michel I administration. Your party does not succeed in having it published either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u98	I can only say that it is a pity that you have left the government for a misguided reason and have not approved the budget. This was confirmed by the entire Chamber in December. Don't try to pin the debts on us for the next generations. That's just your fault.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u99	I note, Mr Vandenput, that your party had a great deal to do in Marrakesh to bind our country to a so-called non-binding treaty, but in the meantime you have failed to honour agreements and to make Kris Peeters keep his promises effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u100	I suggest that we stick to that. Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3556/4+1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3556/4+1) The draft law contains 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u102	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[• ……]] 6 – Barbara Pas (3556/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u103	Held: the vote on the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u104	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3 to 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u106	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 125: Fabienne Winckel, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Karine Lalieux, Karin Temmerman, Olivier Henry - 1068: Meyrem Almaci, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Gilles Vanden Burre - 2431: Gilles Vanden Burre, Kristof Calvo, Stefaan Van Hecke, Jean-Marc Nollet, Marcel Cheron, Georges Gilkinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Henry, Mrs Dierick, Mrs Almaci, Mrs Ceysens and Mr Vanden Burre.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very welcome news that we will be able to vote on the text before us this afternoon. There has been a great deal of work by the Minister and by several Members of Parliament, many meetings for a long time. For the bulk of the discussion on the draft, I can refer to the written report, which was extensive. However, on Tuesday we held a final meeting, for which we agreed to produce only an oral report. I would therefore like to say very briefly that we have accepted some amendments, including, first of all, the capping of driver liability in the event of an accidental minor error. Secondly, we have yet to reach agreement on lower limits on driver liability for small companies and associations. Thirdly, we have also reached an agreement to extend the text in detail to cover all the articles applicable to the cooperative society and to include them in book 6 under the chapter on the cooperative society. These are the three most important amendments, on which we reached an agreement last Tuesday and on which I wanted to make a brief oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u109	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the draft before us. It is an important reform, which contains many points that will benefit entrepreneurship and the economy. The text is, of course, based on a compromise reached in the previous Swedish Government. It contains points for which the N-VA was not a asking party, but which we accepted as part of the compromise. I would like to emphasise once again that there are a lot of good points in it, so that the balance is clearly positive for us. So the glass is half full and not half empty. We will therefore have that glass together with you, even though at the bottom there is some droesem, which may remain on our stomachs. I would like to highlight the positive innovations of the new code. We are not the country that over-promots enterprise. However, it removes a number of thresholds. The number of companies is also reduced from 17 to four. The existing bvbas with unnecessarily many provisions that are actually part of the formula of public limited companies will now be transformed into private companies, which is a much more flexible form of company. The capital requirement goes on the shovel and shares will be easier to transfer. Starters, especially in the technology sector, will be able to make very grateful use of this. One person will be able to set up an e.g. or a nv. Only two founders are needed for a non-profit association. These simplifications will also facilitate the start-up of associations and companies. Two non-profit organisations will now be able to work together in the form of a joint or overarching non-profit organisation, without the need to involve a stroman as a third founder. The association industry advocated the preservation of three people as a form of quality control, but the design we will approve does not contain a ban on it. That M.O. is still allowed. Associations, like companies, will be able to carry out all economic activities. Vzw's are allowed to make profits, but of course they are not allowed to distribute them directly or indirectly to third parties. This still makes a clear distinction between companies and associations. The text continues the line already drawn by the Swedish Government with the new insolvency and corporate law for the non-profit association towards a full-fledged form of enterprise. That's normal, too. There is no doubt that it is a good thing that the playing field between the concept of non-profit organisations and that of companies, which meet more and more as competitors or contracting parties in legal and economic terms, is being levelled. If companies and associations are allowed to engage in the same economic activities, the draft law for companies certainly contains opportunities, whereas they were previously subject to stricter rules than associations. The Constitutional Court is likely to lead us in the future to further work on that level playing field, for example with regard to the liability of directors of companies or the fine that companies will get if the annual accounts are filed too late. In short, we have taken important steps and we will be able to continue to do so in the future. In addition, companies are now free to choose under which company law they wish to operate, as is the case in neighbouring countries. The choice of seat theory allows us to compete more with other countries in the field of company law. We are in favour of healthy competition between companies and countries. That keeps them fit and ensures that they are not sclerosed. Another positive point is the clear regulation concerning the statute of the electronic shareholders' register. We can leave the time of the paper register. We are finally entering the 21st century in this area. Our group has been able to place a great deal of emphasis in the discussion in committee, by means of amendments. The chapter on the dissolution and liquidation of companies was more logically classified. In addition, the procedures for liquidation were eased if there were no outstanding debts or only debts to shareholders at the time of dissolution. The starting point is that the liquidation scenario, regardless of the method of dissolution or liquidation, belongs to the members or shareholders and not to the State. That too is a good rule, so that the entrepreneur's role is strengthened vis-à-vis the government as a regulator. Of course, more flexible rules for liquidation require additional safeguards for creditors, and that is also provided for. By the Act of 17 May 2017, the procedure of judicial dissolution, under the impetus of the N-VA, had already been strengthened. The results are clear: the number of legal dissolutions of dormant companies rose from 1 000 to 5 000 in one year. A number of company courts are still at the beginning of that clean-up operation. This procedure is further refined by the new Code of Conduct. This strikes a good balance between the rights of dormant companies and shareholders versus the rights of potential creditors. In short, there are enough positive points that we support. Now, however, we come to the bottom of droesem. We were absolutely not asking for a number of elements that were put into the draft. The first thing that struck us was the limitation of driver liability, the so-called cap. It was strongly criticised in the opinion of the Council of State and in the hearings and got quite a bit of a headwind during the discussion in committee. Our group also pointed out at the start of the discussion in committee that there were serious doubts as to whether the system would pass the constitutional test. You then replicated it not stated in the report, Mr President, that you would be more than happy to defend the measure in person before the Constitutional Court, Minister. An evil tongue would say that you have now come to know the way to the Constitutional Court and that you can go there blindly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u110	It's nearby.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u111	It's not even far away. However, it is an old principle that one cannot bake an omelet without breaking eggs. When in that omelet, after breaking the eggs, a number of eggshells come into the pan consciously, one should be careful when serving the dish. The omelet was served and, by way of amendment, we were able to fish some eggshells out of the pan two days ago. We must never forget that there is always another party to the limitation of liability, which, in the event of any damage, requires compensation for the damage suffered and which is always a potential victim of the limitation of liability. So people are quite careful with that. Damage sufferers, in quite a few scenarios, threatened to stand in the cold by the anticipated cap. Members of a de facto association who do not take out fire insurance, for example, are liable for unlimited liability. It's almost carnival. In Aalst there was a remarkable case of an unfortunate accident, in which a de facto association had absolutely no limitation of that liability because it was a factual association. Drivers of a small non-profit organisation or company, who do not take out fire insurance, make a driver's mistake. According to the text, they could only be held liable for up to EUR 250 000, victims could only recover on the limited assets of a small association or company and up to EUR 250 000 on the directors. However, in many forms of damage, the amounts are enormous. Think of environmental damage, bodily injury, damage to a house or garage, etc. In each case, the victim should pay for most of the damage in the scheme provided for. Unlike victims who cannot insure themselves against all the unforeseens of fate, drivers can insure themselves against driver errors. In fact, companies that are highly committed to good governance would be disadvantaged. They could themselves be the victim, as I said earlier, of another company which is causing significantly greater damage than the threshold to which the liability of those directors would be limited. Good governance of a company is in the hands of oneself. However, damage caused by a poorly managed company is not in hand. Moreover, these sound undertakings would also have to co-pay through liability insurance for the areas of certain malicious or improperly managed undertakings. In our view, smaller shareholders of large companies would also be at risk of falling into the cold. A minority claim would be severely undermined by the proposed scheme. A shareholder, with, for example, 1% of the shares, who would like to bring a minority claim as a result of a lawsuit, could incur compensation of up to EUR 120 000. This might not really encourage you to start expensive lawsuits. There could be a financial sword of Damocles hanging over the head of employees if they were to commit an error with a driver for which that driver can limit his driver's liability. In this case, the injured person may appeal to both the worker and the driver for the whole of the damage. While the employee may have unlimited liability for a more than accidental minor error and a serious error, this would not have been the case for drivers. This would result in the employee getting the bulk of the damage claim. N-VA thought that was an absolutely avoidable situation. Hence the spirit of the amendment we have tabled. This certainly does not eliminate the risk of unconstitutionality of the rule, but the likelihood of it has certainly changed. I can imagine that I do not want to substitute the judges of the Constitutional Court for accepting a certain difference for a structured form such as a non-profit organisation or a company compared to a de facto association, but we have been able to correct a number of discriminations in this way. We are very pleased that we were able to agree with each other at the committee meeting two days ago, that we were able to approve that amendment and have it included in the text before us today. The droesem was filtered out of the glass of wine. Unfortunately, we did not find sufficient support for the second problem the day before yesterday, namely the double voting rights of listed companies. We did not oppose the idea of double voting in principle. There is certainly a logic to offer loyal shareholders the chance of a certain advantage, but the current double voting regime, as well as the Ecolo-Green Bill, only provides for a double voting right for registered shares. The practice abroad shows that a double voting right for registered shares is de facto beneficial to large shareholders. It is our belief that small investors can also be as loyal as large shareholders. We therefore considered that the double voting rights should also apply to shares held by retail investors in a securities account. It would also allow institutional investors to acquire double voting rights and participate at the same level, for example pension funds, which are predominantly long-term investors. It is clear that we must have the double voting rights for all shares that are loyal to a company. However, we have not tabled an amendment to this effect because we hope that a separate legislative proposal will provide a solution and because, of course, there is a need for technical adjustments to computer systems which might be a serious burden on those who have to introduce them at the moment. Minister, I have already spoken in committee about the purpose of the company: all power to the shareholder. Of course, the question arises as to what we do with the principle that one share corresponds to one vote, which is generally a starting point that carries a certain logic. The aim of double voting as an exception is to prevent short-term thinking, the rapid gain of money, and we follow that logic. In other words, the intention is to distinguish between investors and speculators, which is a justified distinction. It assumes that those who have much to lose know better what decisions need to be taken. Actually, it's a kind of cijnskie system of shareholder democracy. Practice will have to show whether the benefits are greater than the breach of the principle, but at least we fully follow that logic. We believe, however, that the introduction of double voting rights should only be allowed by a majority of 75% of shareholders, so that a really large group is aware of or believes that the double voting rights represent more advantages than disadvantages. In het verslag op pagina 25 heb ik gelezen dat collega de Lamotte daarover zegt: "Multiple votes allow more control for a lower risk", om even verderop te zeggen "that responsibility must be the corollary of the risk. However, with multiple voting rights, control is increased for a lesser risk. Is there not a risk of distortion in terms of governance?" That is what I am quoting Mr de Lamotte. So, Mr de Lamotte, you recognise the importance of the balance between control, risk and responsibility. That is why you have Amendment No 2. 347 in order to introduce the double voting rights not at 66% but at 75%. That amendment was adopted in committee at first reading, but the Minister said at that time that approval was a mistake, and we believe that it was a full vote. Strangely enough, Mr Lamotte, when we put that amendment to the vote again in committee, you voted against it. You have changed your mind on this. There are always people who have negative thoughts about possible change of course. Maybe it's an element to spread the good relations between cdH and CD&V as some kind of introduction to future collaboration? I don't know. The fact that Ecolo-Groen voted against yesterday seems to illustrate the fact that Green has made the choice for the big shareholders here. Sloganesk could say that in company law it is no longer Green's intention to make the rich pay, but rather to make the rich determine. This seems to us to be contrary to what is normally the social institution with which Green likes to unpack. The major shareholders are given a special window of opportunity. They may introduce the double voting rights by 66% and suddenly, four fifths of the statutes, at the general meeting, on a day-by-day basis. De facto, the threshold for statutory changes has been reduced to 66% in many cases. That's a political choice. We are not in favour of this. The time for Mr Van der Maelen is too short to set up a committee of inquiry in the coming weeks to find out who is asking for that change. There is a suggestion to follow the agendas of the general meetings of listed companies in De Tijd or L'Echo from 1 May 2019 to determine who will make use of this possibility. We hope that is not the intention. The double voting rights were not intended to be abused in order to force changes in the statutes. This would seriously undermine the confidence of minority shareholders, institutional and small investors, which would be particularly regrettable. Mr President, I will conclude. Minister, company and association law is more than purely a right. It is opening up opportunities for entrepreneurs, to start, grow, flourish and to create work and prosperity, with or without profit purposes. The new Code of Companies and Associations contributes to this. We repeat that we find it extremely regrettable and that it has surprised us that we were alone with our demand in committee the day before yesterday. With our amendment on the threshold 66/75, we did not want to give the major shareholders the extra advantage over the small shareholders. No one followed us in that. We hope that its adverse effects will be limited. I repeat, however, that for us the glass is more full than empty. We will therefore support the draft, taking into account the reservations I have expressed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u112	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after very long months in committee, this is your reform of the Code of Companies and Associations. Can we be happy about that? Unfortunately, no! I will therefore try to explain why my group will not vote in favour of this reform. It can be said that this had started very badly. Indeed, the first opinion of the Council of State was to say the least crazy. He considered it an inaboutious project. I quote: "It is regrettable that the authors did not take care of much to improve the editorial quality of such an important text. The preliminary draft is clearly a text which has not been the subject of an overall revision. It is still up to the authors to put the work entirely back on the job." You explained to us that these were mainly errors related to the translation of the text into French. It should be noted that with more than 550 amendments tabled, of course also by the opposition, you had sufficiently confirmed that this text was not yet ready. In this context, we have asked for a second opinion on the first 65 amendments tabled, which came to us in September and which nevertheless invites the authors to reconsider the draft as a whole. So the tone was set. In recent weeks, we have tried with you to improve this text or to move some of the lines of strength of the project that we found particularly dangerous, but we do not always convince you of their need. They concerned cooperatives, non-profit organisations, the concept of registered office, the abolition of minimum capital and the limitation of the liability of directors. The debate has been very lengthy in committee. So I'm going to present them to you briefly. As far as cooperative societies are concerned, I welcome the significant progress we have achieved. Indeed, in its original state, the bill did not offer a genuine recognition of cooperative societies. Only thirteen articles were dedicated to them. For the rest, reference was made to the provisions on limited liability companies. The cooperative society was, therefore, only perceived as a form of limited liability society. The sector deeply regretted this and felt that it was a step backwards from the current legislation. The Council of State itself had stressed that the process made the reading of the provisions extremely difficult and creating legal insecurity. After many months of work, but also the resignation of the government and a referral to the Council of State of our specific amendment, we are pleased to have finally been able to be heard and that this PS amendment, tabled the day before yesterday, could be adopted unanimously. Our amendment offers, in a specific book six, real recognition to the cooperative society and a set of rules that are transparent, clear and in line with its needs. We are very happy about that. However, we remain opposed to this reform of company law, which will lead to a reduction in the protection of third parties and, in particular, of workers. I will put my point in two points. First, the reform introduces limits on directors' liability. This means that administrators will only be partially responsible for the damage they cause. It's obviously inexplicable. Why is the small independent who causes damage obliged to repair it entirely while the administrator, on the other hand, receives preferential treatment? This could never be explained convincingly, especially since we are the only European country to introduce this discrimination that defies the function of administrator. Logically, many have objected to this system of exception to the law of responsibility. We can mention the Council of State, the Central Economic Council, the experts interviewed in committee and even your own experts. Professor Joeri Vananroye of the University of Leuven, who had worked on your reforms, questioned the constitutional nature of the measure, which opens the door to abuse. Ten years after the financial crisis, it seems to me that no lessons have been learned. It's completely irresponsible. The administrator's liability could only be undertaken without limitation in the event of intentional misconduct, with all the difficulties involved in terms of evidence. We would have wanted to remove this limitation of liability altogether. That was not possible. However, thanks to an amendment voted in committee on Tuesday, we were still able to foresee that the administrator would be responsible for his heavy fault and his usual fault. This goes in the right direction and makes it possible to restore equality with respect to workers. We look forward to it. I then turn to the question of head office. At present, our law provides that the nationality of a company is that of the country in which it takes the important decisions and carries out its main activities. In other words, if the company carries on its main business in Belgium, Belgian law is required. With this bill, that will no longer be the case. The company will be able to choose its nationality and thus the law applicable to it, by simply changing its statutes. Thus, a company in Belgium will be able to choose, why not, to be governed by the law of Panama. Colleagues, let us consider the new code that we are about to vote on. Just know that companies will be able to decide to sit on it and not to respect it, as they will have decided to belong to another less protective right. It is, of course, a form of relocation that opens the door to all forms of abuse and dumping. I even told you in committee that this was for me a Trojan horse in favor of relocation. With this measure, more mailbox companies will appear, with the aim of facilitating tax fraud and circumventing social legislation. To convince yourself, it is enough to read the comments of Mr Eric Van den Broel, Senior Manager Research and Development of the Graydon Business Information Office, who assumes that the tendency of Belgian entrepreneurs to prefer to establish their headquarters abroad is mainly motivated by fiscal reasons. From now on, these unscrupulous entrepreneurs will not even have to have an activity abroad. One more word on the abolition of the minimum capital to form a limited liability company. It is clearly established that one of the main causes of bankruptcy is the lack of sufficient capital for the constitution. Today, the government wants to remove some existing guarantees in terms of minimum capital. It's obviously incomprehensible. This will clearly encourage malicious entrepreneurs rather than well-careed entrepreneurs. Finally, I would like to address the issue of associations, of which we know the importance for our society. The logic of the government has been to bring together in the same law the provisions governing societies and associations. Here too, it's incomprehensible. Apart from the status of legal person, associations and companies have nothing in common. They pursue completely different objectives: one, the distribution of profits, the other, a disinterested mission. They should have been treated differently by clearly establishing a Company Code and a Code of Associations. Today, we share the concerns of the voluntary sector, which fears the commodification of the latter. Minister, the voluntary sector will have really been upset under this legislature by successive reforms. The associative spirit will thus have been altered and eroded. Beyond this aspect, ASBL managers will literally have to travel through the various provisions of this extremely voluminous code to identify the provisions that apply to associations. It's impassable. Mr. Minister, on Tuesday in committee, you made a commitment to provide for a provision in another law, instructing the government to establish and update, each year, an informal coordination of the provisions applicable to NSOs, NSOs and foundations. Can you confirm this commitment again? In conclusion, we wish once again to regret the abolition of social societies that enabled a social economy to flourish in an increasingly financialized society, by promoting an economy based on social equity and ethical values. In conclusion, it is true that progress has been made, but it remains insufficient. Therefore, as you will have understood, Minister, we can definitely not vote in favour of your reform. Not only, and I have just recalled, it is a great concern for the voluntary sector, but it also introduces concepts such as the statutory headquarters, the flexibilisation of limited liability companies and the abolition of minimum capital, on which we will never agree. Finally, Mr Minister, in terms of timing, it seems to me that you are missing the transposition of the second directive on shareholders' rights. As I told you in committee, it has to be transposed in June this year and would have made it possible to discuss, for publicly listed companies, the remuneration of directors and their severance pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u113	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although the adoption of the Company Code by the law of 7 May 1999 has, of course, allowed for a certain order of the coordinated laws on commercial companies, it has unfortunately not been an opportunity to carry out a comprehensive renovation of Belgian company law which has accumulated, over time, the rules, but also the inconsistencies. In the face of the many European states, such as Germany, Italy and France, which have already modernised their company law to make it more competitive, Belgium also had to benefit from a simpler and more flexible company law, which would not only increase the attractiveness of our country, but also encourage the development of the activities of Belgian companies. With this in mind, our country has the opportunity, through the adoption of a new code, to simplify and bring some flexibility to its company and association law. This simplification is reflected in three important points. First, the adoption of a single code for companies, associations and foundations, which makes it possible to distinguish more clearly those entities which, according to the Code of Economic Law, constitute enterprises. The aim will now be to allocate at least part of that profit, which will be used as a criterion for distinguishing between the company and the association. This will make it easier to distinguish a company from an association without having to refer to the sole criterion of the lucrative purpose often difficult to distinguish. I am thinking in particular of all these associations which, in order to finance their purpose, carry out various activities in order to obtain the necessary resources, without, however, abandoning their unselfish object. Secondly, the removal of the distinction between civil and commercial society in full consistency with our Code of Economic Law, in which the concept of enterprise has been established. Thirdly, this simplification also manifests itself by limiting the number of companies covered by the code. With the adoption of this code, several forms of companies which are not currently used, but which, on the other hand, complicate the choice of the entrepreneur, complicate the landscape, will disappear. As for the concept of flexibility, it is intended to make Belgian company law a more attractive and competitive right in line with its time, such as to favour the establishment, in Belgium, of foreign companies with a right which leaves greater statutory or contractual freedom, with more complementary standards which will apply whenever the parties have not decided to opt for provisions tailored to their needs. In addition, a right adapted to the evolution of technology, including the introduction of the Internet in its provisions, should exist, as should a right to cope with European developments and the competitiveness of company law already in place in many European countries. I am thinking in particular of the theory of the registered office for which the code abandons that of the real seat. In order to strengthen legal certainty and respond to the economic reality of our time, the new code opts for the theory of statutory headquarters, which is more in line with the principle of freedom of establishment that the European Union is experiencing today. An enterprise must have the opportunity to settle in a country where legislation is most appropriate to its activity while being able to develop it in other States without risk of losing its nationality. Little by little, Belgian companies, with a current code based on the theory of real headquarters, become the only ones who cannot emigrate without losing their nationality. With regard to concrete measures, we stress, first of all, that the adoption of this new Code of Companies and Associations in our country provides for a set of general provisions applicable both to companies and to associations and foundations. Secondly, it also has a new management responsibility regime adapted to the size of the company, which sets limits on liability between EUR 125 000 and EUR 12 million. This will give our company managers a better visibility of the risks involved and an opportunity to be sure accordingly, with some exceptions of course. Thirdly, the liquidation procedure is becoming more effective. It limits the intervention of the judge when the liquidation of the company is not in deficit, while ensuring greater protection of creditors. Fourthly, the procedures for resolving disputes between shareholders of companies, which are well known in the case law, are being improved. Fifth, more specifically for companies, the new code will correspond to the arrival of the limited liability company (LRS), which will replace the current SPRL. A more flexible company which will make it possible to exercise everything - from the SME to the listed company - and which will be synonymous with the entry into Belgian law of a limited-form company without compulsory social capital and which will thus mark a break in the link currently imposed between the value of the contributions and the rights attached to the shares. The entrepreneur will be able to think about his activity according to his needs and not according to capital to be released. This, in order to preserve the protection of creditors, which will be ensured from a more economic perspective by the introduction of a liquidity test based on a constant assessment of the company's own funds. The LRS will require, as soon as it is established, a more comprehensive financial plan to draw the contractor's attention to the needs necessary to carry out its project. Sixthly, I will also note that in this new code, the cooperative society will no longer be intended to be used solely for its flexibility, but it will go back to the cooperative principles for which it was created, namely the satisfaction of the needs and the development of the economic and social activities of its shareholders. Finally, in this new code, the public limited liability company is made more flexible, despite limited scope for reform, given European constraints. In view of the importance attached to LRSs in the new corporate landscape, the public limited company becomes the form of a company of large companies with a large shareholding. The public limited liability company is granted, as is already the case in several countries, the possibility of establishing a dualist system of administration, in which there is a joint management board for operational matters and a supervisory board to decide on the company's broad guidelines and to supervise the board of directors. Finally, it will now be possible to introduce a double voting right for listed public limited liability companies in order to promote a degree of stability in the shareholding and thus to combat speculation more effectively. More specifically, the Code provides for a codification of the provisions relating to associations and foundations, which are currently still regulated by an old rule dating from 27 June 1921. This code is not distinguished by major changes in the regulation of associations and companies, but it will make it possible, through the integration of the provisions relating to associations and foundations and the use of rules common to all companies, to remedy the current absence of rules specific to associations and foundations and to avoid having to reason by analogy with the provisions relating to companies. Mr Minister, I would like to point out that this code has been welcomed by professionals in the sector, including the FEB, the Royal Federation of Belgian Notaries or the SNI. The Belgian Federation of Enterprises, convinced that this code will strengthen the attractiveness of a Belgian company and association law lagging behind its neighbours, particularly welcomes the introduction of the SRL in our law, calling it "an all-terrain society that the practice expected". The Royal Federation of Belgian Notaries stresses the need for a more flexible alternative to the current SPRL. The NIS (Neuter Union for Independents) has been very supportive of limiting the liability of directors, who will now be able to effectively realize the responsibility for their duties and ensure that they do so. As you will understand, Minister, the MR group shares your enthusiasm for the passage of this bill and will, of course, vote on it. However, Minister, I would like to ask you to reassure our fellow citizens on a point that we feel is sensitive. The law of 15 April 2018 on the reform of business law extended the concept of enterprise to include companies under ordinary law reclassified at the same time as "simple companies". As you know, common law societies which do not have legal personality are used by many Belgians in the context of heritage planning and the transmission of movable family assets because of their simplicity and flexibility. Many people are concerned about the implications of the requalification of the common society as a "simple society" - as provided for in the new Code of Societies and Associations - on the organisation of their family heritage. Minister, I have two questions for you. Could you confirm to us that the simple company, as re-qualified in the new Company Code, will allow exactly the same heritage organization of the securities of a family as the one currently offered by the common law society? Could you confirm that ordinary companies will only have to change their statutes (at most the name), if not at all, in order to comply with the new Code of Companies and Associations and, in any event, not before 2024? Minister, thank you very much for your clarification of these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u114	Minister, you are simply continuing with what you have done over the past four and a half years: important reform of large branches of law, making it more efficient and simpler. In the Justice Commission, it will be thought when that man finally stops. Unfortunately that is not yet the case and there are still a number of beautiful yards ahead of us. I am also very pleased with the way in which we can work with the opposition across party boundaries, which will undoubtedly make our committee one of the most efficient or the most efficient committee of Parliament in improving our legislation in the next few weeks. Unlike previous speakers, I will not make a technical argument; I think that we should confine ourselves to the substance in plenary. Once again, it can be said that we have reached a milestone in company law here. Once again, you are taking care of something that was not easy: the modernisation, the flexibilisation and the simplification of a code of conduct. This is a good thing for all those involved in companies. They have been calling for this from the practice for a very long time. Mr President, allow me to raise a number of points. On the one hand, there is the whole integration of association law into company law. There is a great deal of fear about that among the associations and the non-profit organisations, fear that is sometimes stirred up by some of our colleagues. But, frankly, if we follow the texts in all rationality, it is an improvement that certain aspects of company law apply to associations. It will mainly be a matter of communication. Last summer, a brochure was prepared to inform the non-profit organisations about what is going to change. Let's face it, that's not gonna change that much. If anything changes, legislation also seeks to achieve certain simplifications. Let us try to update last summer's brochure and spread it to the non-profit organisations, in order to try to take away the fear of change. Previous speakers have already discussed a number of technical aspects in detail. This will undoubtedly have been the case in the speeches made by the first speakers, whom I unfortunately could not quite hear. So I will not go into these technical aspects further. The remaining four basic forms of more than ten companies can only simplify matters for all legal practitioners. I believe that is a good thing. Mr President, I would like to touch on two points. Firstly, there is the story of the cooperative society. I am pleased that Mr Henry has tabled a well prepared integral amendment. We have been able to support this from the former majority. In that respect, we were on the same page with Mr Henry. By approving his amendment, we can anchor the cooperative society and still preserve its own identity. I believe that is a good thing. When I first came in, Mr President, the leader of your party was just discussing the question of double voting. This has led to many discussions. I have no doubt, therefore, that the Minister will be coming back to that in a moment. Let it be quite clear that the principle of double voting is a good principle. Shareholders who are loyal to the company can thus gain more control in a certain way, as decided by the general meeting. The discussion then concerns whether 75% of the votes are needed, the usual percentage for changes to the statutes, or whether 50% is necessary, whichever is proposed. We have landed at a good 66% compromise. Perhaps this is why the N-VA did not agree, but I think that the 9% difference from the percentage for an amendment of the statutes is justified. This is not a change in the statutes, it is a certain anchoring of loyal shareholders, which will make it easier for them to make their mark on the company. I believe that is a good thing. That difference can certainly be explained rationally. We shall see whether that will hold, Mr De Roover, if there are any legal questions on the subject. Minister, you are reforming, but you are not reforming to reform. Some blame you for doing so and for moving too fast. Well, colleagues of the opposition will also be able to confirm it: if we have taken the time for one parliamentary procedure and worked thoroughly, then it is for the present draft. Once again, reform to reform is never good, but reform to make things more efficient and simpler is always good. If we look at economic growth until a few years ago and at the companies that chose our country or not, the burden of wages was the great culprit. One of the disadvantages of our country was indeed the excessive wage burden. The government has taken important initiatives in this area. Wage charges are now falling, and our country is becoming more attractive. It is also very important to modernise and make company law more efficient. When managers have to decide where to set up the company, they also examine the legal environment in which the company ends up. It will now appear that, thanks to the proposed reform, a much more rational and perhaps even more European regime, better adapted to the countries around us, will be put in place. If we used to have a wage burden handicap, you would now also eliminate company law disability with the proposed modernisation of the law. Minister, the proof of the pudding is said to be in the eating. It will now. There will be a lot of cold feet and people will have to wait and see what happens. In this case, however, I believe that the pudding will taste better than expected. Minister, many innovators are only honoured post-mortem; I hope that will happen a little earlier for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u115	Mr President, I will be rather brief, I think that almost everything has already been said. Our company and association law is fully modernised by this draft law. The new Code is, in fact, the biggest innovation since the introduction of the Company Code in 1999. We have chosen to incorporate the legislation relating to companies and associations into a single code and to introduce some important innovations for our companies. With the new Code a new era begins in Belgian company law. The ambitions are great. Company law must once again become competitive with our neighbouring countries, in particular with the Netherlands. The next few years will show whether that ambition will be met. In any case, our group is prepared to amend the text if necessary and if it appears that there are still important problems for our entrepreneurs. The reform is an important step which will fully support Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u116	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a long-term bill. The final result for our group is a major improvement on the initial draft law, but it still contains a number of issues with which we cannot agree in principle. With the former opposition parties, we have always fought for four things during the discussion of the draft: the maintenance of the true doctrine of the seat, no abolition of the minimum capital for the e.g., no cap on directors' liability and a full book for the cooperative company, which is not seen as a derivative of the e.g. I would like to thank the cabinet of the Minister and the former opposition parties for their constructive attitude. Together, we managed to fine-tune the amendment tabled by the PS and ourselves, which was intended to provide for a separate book for the cooperative society, so that each group agreed that it was a necessary improvement to the draft. The board of directors' liability, as you have said, was extremely critical of the Council of State. As many as 12 possible violations of the principle of equality have been identified. That is why we tabled an amendment during the discussion of the draft in which we asked for the deletion of the article. Nevertheless, for a very long time you did not want to give way to this cap, even when it was made clear that this would result in employees having greater liability than their bosses. The N-VA amendment, which was adopted by almost all the parties in the committee this week, removes the inequality between employers and employees. Your party also approved that amendment. This progressive insight can only be welcomed. However, I would like to stress that we do not believe that this amendment has evacuated all possible violations of the principle of equality and that it would still be better to remove the cap on driver liability as a whole. The draft law still provides for the transfer to a registered office. Companies may therefore choose in their statutes the law applicable to them, regardless of the country in which the company is actually established. This opens the doors to abuse and letterbox companies. Also, your anti-abuse clause does not provide sufficient comfort, as it relates only to the applicable liability law. The abolition of minimum capital for e.g. means removing an important threshold for setting up an e.g. This means that an objective, faultless minimum liability is thrown overboard. Victims are again creditors and shareholders who lose an important part of their security. Moreover, the abolition of minimum capital encourages the management company's phenomenon. We regard management companies as a tax scourge which must be combated rather than facilitated. For these reasons, our group cannot support your draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u117	Minister, how do we summarize the work of a small year? Since 2015 you have started this assignment. That is no big surprise, of course, because the terrain and the domain are close to your heart, Minister. First, together with Mrs Gerkens van Ecolo, who has since left Parliament to take on an equally important task elsewhere, and then with Mr Vanden Burre, we have started the task of following your work as closely and as badly as possible. We have actually done this at very close range. In the trade press, the bill is described as a landslide, a revolution. It is quite clear that it is a far-reaching reform. As from day one, our group has said that it supported the principles of the draft a little differently from those expressed by a number of colleagues from the former majority and the opposition. After all these decades, we felt it was absolutely useful to carry out a thorough reform. There was a need for some sort of sturm-und-excitation between the minister and me. The aim of the reform is to allow for a thorough simplification of company law. We agreed to this, but from day one we have also expressed our concern about association life, social profit, cooperatives, social enterprises and the complexity that the design might entail and the legal uncertainty for non-profit organisations. We have also expressed our concern to integrate corporate social responsibility more effectively into company law and to seize this opportunity to include this social responsibility in the design, whether it is about climate challenges or social challenges. We have gone very far in this exercise. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for personal cooperation, including with the cabinet, which has very often responded in a very short time to questions we had. I have a special appreciation for that, because that has not always been given in cooperation. Even before the fall of the government, it was. We agreed on the main lines. It's been turbulent. Many colleagues have attended or not attended the committee in the past year. It was very often only group staff who were specialised in the subject, but together with Mrs Gerkens I followed the theme as well and as angry as possible. We even organised our own colloquium on 19 March last year, even before the discussions in the committee started, because we felt how concerns in civil society grew. There was a great deal of concern among the associations and cooperatives. There were also many questions about the tax effects of this reform. It is one thing to reform judicially, judicially, corporately, but this obviously has a lot of side effects for the regions. This caused a lot of questions about the tax effects, for which Minister Van Overtveldt was still responsible at the time. Bart Caron, our Flemish MEP, has also asked the necessary questions in the Flemish Parliament. I am very pleased that, after that colloquium and the steps we have taken in the Flemish Parliament, we have been able to do together the exercise to amend the Code of Conduct. This is a new law that promotes second chance, encourages entrepreneurship, allows a new start, but also basically starts from redefining as a context, including from non-profit organisations and cooperatives. We have worked hard to ensure that non-profit organisations have access to insolvency proceedings, ensure the continuity of their activities and services provided, and that they are accompanied by the necessary beacons for their specific character. We have asked for and received hearings. Many amendments have also been tabled in the course of this exercise. The Council of State repeatedly criticized us for helping us find a way out together. I could now comment on every amendment we have tabled and sneer at one party or another, but I am not going to follow colleagues who have been here before me. I do not think that makes much sense, especially since I have seen some of them, Mr De Roover is one of them, not so often. I do, however, give some clemency for that, because the times at which those committee meetings were set changed quite often. This is undoubtedly a simplification. This is undoubtedly a step forward. I am very pleased that we were able to contact the cabinet very quickly after we had sent this code to the Council of State with our amendments, in order to table a new amendment for the introduction of a separate chapter 6 for cooperatives. We have both stretched our agenda very far to meet in a familiar environment. I am pleased that colleagues from the PS and sp.a have also tabled their amendment and that together we have been able to come to a new chapter for cooperatives. One hundred and fifty years after the date, there will finally be a separate code for cooperatives. That's a breakthrough. We are therefore very pleased with what is in store for the cooperatives. We have worked very intensively on this text so that the cooperatives get the status they deserve and not catch-all legal form or a cook-off of private companies. It will be a statute that recognises their individuality and gives them a full place in company law. I'm not going to quote the history. Previously, it was a derivative of the private company. I am very pleased that we have been able to go this far in the extreme for the cooperative. As far as non-profit organisations are concerned, I indicated in committee that I used to be active in a small youth home with only volunteers. We were hardly aware of the fact that every year we had to go to the clerk to lay down the necessary documents or that we had to change our statutes whenever there was a change of director. I was therefore particularly concerned about the impact of having to look in a valve of several hundred pages for the specific phrases and parts that apply to non-profit organisations. Throughout the debate, keeping the administrative obligations for these small associations as low as possible has been a priority for us. This general simplification exercise should not just increase their complexity. The submission of the draft law will allow for an electronic deposit of the accounts with the National Bank, instead of submitting them on paper to the Registrar. I'm grateful for that. It also removes some of our concerns. However, we are taking a rather wait-and-see position, because for a small non-profit association, for example, it is not obvious to find its way into the gigantic code of conduct as it is now. There are also a number of other issues that we are concerned about, still in conjunction with civil society. We have already talked about driver liability. I am thinking here of the two amendments that were voted on; on the one hand, there was the CdH amendment on the reduction of the cap and, on the other hand, somewhat surprisingly, the N-VA amendment. We are also concerned about the increase in driver liability in cases where employees will be more liable than drivers. This was discussed for a very long time in committee. It was also one of our concerns, as well as the SCOP and the carbon balance, on which we had tabled an amendment before the current climate test, which is not surprising, because we believe that companies should be working on it. To make a long story short, we have been able to work very hard and closely with your employees and with you. That exercise was already deployed before the fall of the government and was continued constructively after the fall. We didn't agree on everything. We are still as concerned about the non-profit organisations and the SCOPs as we were at the beginning. However, we see progress and we are very pleased with the separate code for cooperative societies. We shall adopt the same attitude in the vote as in the committee. We have worked hard on the text before us, but we are concerned about the non-profit organisations. We are therefore looking forward to all the accompanying legislative proposals and initiatives, including in particular the brochure to which you have committed yourself. We are waiting and worried about the many people who give the best of themselves every day. That is why we will abstain from voting on this draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u118	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will go to the heart of this debate which has been taking place for many months in committee. Like Meyrem Almaci, who has just spoken, my former colleague Muriel Gerkens has been very involved in this matter. I shall limit my speech to two aspects which guided our reflection throughout the work in committee on this far-reaching reform and for which we have fought from the beginning. The first relates to co-operatives, while the second relates to non-profit organizations. I will conclude by explaining the amendments that we are resubmitting today, in order to highlight our priorities. It is no secret that this way of doing business other than the cooperative model, based on the values of redistribution and participation of workers and on objectives that are attentive to the social and environmental impact of an economic activity, is obviously at the heart of the Ecolo-Groen political project. That is why, as ecologists, we are advocating the inclusion of a fully-fledged chapter on cooperatives. In the first phase of the discussions, this had not been possible. The cooperative was, of course, recognized, but not entirely. Indeed, it was too close to our taste for the future SRL (limited liability company), which will take shape through the new Company Code. Following our discussions with the minister's office and with other opposition parties earlier this year, we saw that it was possible to move the lines to get a full chapter - Chapter 6 - on co-operatives. We have therefore made the most of our efforts, mobilised the most energy to implement what the cooperatives and federations sector has been waiting for decades, namely full recognition. This amendment, which aims to add this chapter 6 on cooperatives, was unanimously voted on Tuesday in committee. If the vote is confirmed earlier, we will have a specific book dedicated to cooperatives. This is Book VI, which contains 126 articles instead of 13, as was the case before. We can therefore sincerely speak of a real improvement in depth with a view to anchoring this legal form in our Code of Societies. In addition, this status will be limited to what we consider to be the "real" cooperatives that respect the principles of the International Cooperative Alliance. This is a very important step forward for thousands of men and women, co-operators and co-operators, who are now taking part in cooperatives in Belgium. I also hope, above all, that this simplification will encourage others, that others will launch tomorrow as entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs as a cooperative. You will have understood that we supported Chapter 6 by voting on this amendment last Tuesday. As has been recognized by some colleagues, we have contributed a great deal to the discussion, both with the majority parties and with the minister's office. Constructive work has been done. The result is suitable for this chapter 6 on cooperatives. The second point of my intervention and analysis relates to the NSAs. As we have said throughout the discussions in committee, this is a disappointment for us. We are still concerned about the recitals in relation to the NSAs. We are being challenged by the sector that has great fears. The activity of an ASBL is, in our view, also a particular activity. It is obviously not the same as a traditional merchant company. An ASBL has an impact, a social and environmental objective that is important to us. However, the ASBL will now be able to carry out full economic activities and its status will be similar to that of an undertaking. We consider this to be a great challenge, since the purpose and purpose of the NSOs are no longer distinctive to an economic enterprise, except that it cannot distribute its profits to its directors. Minister, it is important to clarify the whole as many issues remain. Minister, you know our fears. Particular attention must be paid to the non-market sector, to the non-market sector, and to the non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market non-market We ask you once again that there be specific support for the small structures that will have to deal with this new code and this very important new administrative work. It is important that we can see how to accompany them, but also how to clarify their concerns: by additional texts that could perhaps be voted on, by evaluations or by applying more pedagogy. We talked to you, Minister, at the meetings we had with your office. For us, it is essential to respond to these fears and persistent expectations of the small non-profits. Indeed, today the Ecolo-Groen Group is not reassured. I hope that you will be able to calm these concerns, provide support and clarify the situation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that we have tabled amendments today. There is indeed one type of co-operative which is particularly dear to us, namely workers' co-operatives, like what is being done in France, under the name SCOP, the co-operative societies of workers and production. We wish to define this concept further in Chapter 6, which was impossible in committee. We are therefore now resubmitting these amendments. In addition, we are again tabling the amendments in connection with the registered office. The provisions submitted today do not agree with us and we would like to make progress in this regard. Finally, another subject we are very interested in, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is the fight against climate change. We have not been able to move forward in committee. I hope it will be different today in plenary. We ask that listed companies, with more than 500 employees, be able to publish a CO2 balance sheet of their activities. This undeniably meets a strong expectation, not only of the citizens, but also of all the actors who are fighting against climate change today. In order to reduce the impact of economic activity, it must be measured and measured, companies must publish a balance sheet. Some already do. It's not an obligation today. We call for this to become so, such as the financial statement or the social balance sheet. An environmental assessment is a necessity for us. We are resubmitting an amendment in this regard. As we said last Tuesday in committee, we welcome some parts of the text that are a real step forward, such as cooperatives. However, we have serious concerns about LSUs, which are assimilated to conventional merchant companies. Unfortunately, we cannot support the whole text at this stage. But I will obviously listen very carefully to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u119	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed new Code of Companies and Associations is, in fact, an important, alas, not well known to the general public, but of crucial importance. It is a project expected by many actors. We saw and heard it in committee. The hearings showed this interest in this subject especially in the world of societies and probably much less expected by the world of associations and foundations. Mr Minister, after a year of work, many meetings in committee (more than 550 amendments tabled), we can try to see the whole architecture of the text and weigh the pros and cons. It seems to me that it was essential to improve the Company Code, to change company law. But for our part, it was unfortunate and harmful to include associations in this code. The right to undertake and the right of association were confused from the beginning. The problem was therefore flawed from the outset. I would definitely have preferred that we could do it in parallel. The evolution of a code is normal in a changing society. I am focusing on a few elements - because we have debated more than 600 pages - and on a number of amendments, notably by introducing the possibility for a society to have multiple aims: this is Article 2 of this Code. Having multiple goals is having other goals than doing business. It is to have other goals for a society and to incorporate them into its statutes. These goals may be environmental or social, other than the distribution of dividends to shareholders alone. The amendment introduced by the CDH enshrines in the law the societal role of a company, in addition to its basic business. Thus, the subordination of all the shares of a company to the single distribution of dividends is barred. This possibility of multiple goals strengthens the ability of companies to work for civil society in general and for the environment. These environmental goals will be able to condition the activity and perhaps take precedence over profit-seeking and dividend distribution. The inclusion of the various goals in the company's statutes gives legal protection to the director and the company manager who consider the non-financial interests in their decisions. With this reform, we invite all companies to consider changing their statutes to incorporate these societal dimensions. This amendment is in line with the political project of the CDH. He is not here to say that the problem is capitalism, but that it is unbridled capitalism that causes it. We need to be able to analyse and regulate the latter. On the other hand, it is regrettable, Mr Minister, that Belgium must abandon the doctrine of the real seat and adopt the doctrine of the registered office. He was mentioned in the gallery. This decision raises a problem of equality of Belgians before the law and a risk of a macro-economic problem of non-contribution of companies to the national budget. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we do not want to play the game of intra-European tax competition and the downward spiral of corporate taxation across Europe. We need to be reassured. The statutory seat is imposed on us by European case law, and some are naïve in opposing this measure, which in this case is a simple posture. The third element I would like to draw attention to is the issue of directors' responsibility, which is also a problem. My colleagues have noted some of them. It is deeply unfair, as directors of large businesses are relatively more protected than those of small businesses. In order to correct this injustice a little bit, I am pleased that the majority has adopted my amendment to introduce a new ceiling of responsibilities for small associations and small companies. It is therefore an element that brings us closer to the world of associations and small societies. It has been mentioned and I am not going to repeat the speech, but I am also pleased that the new Book VI is specifically dedicated to cooperative societies. It is the result of constructive work between the former majority and the opposition. It is a pity, however, that the project could not sufficiently advance the cause of the SCOPs (cooperative and participatory management company) or associated worker societies. As far as we are concerned, we will continue to advocate for a system favourable to cooperatives that involve workers in the management of the enterprise. Where the project is sinning, minister, it is mainly in the fear that it is instilling in the voluntary sector and the legal insecurity it creates. Although many experts have sought to be reassuring, we believe that the impact of this law on associations should have been more studied, deepened, more communicated and more concerted. All the people with whom we have been in contact regretted the problem of the lack of transparency in the design of the project. Things took place in a small circle. The texts were long unavailable for associations and experts who could not express an informed opinion. Mr Minister, you are going to challenge this, but the fact is that the bulk of the energy invested in this reform has been for the benefit of the companies, with a big ear for their representatives, while the associations, foundations and cooperatives have been relegated to a second role at first. It is only after our incessant meetings and pleadings in committee that you, with the majority, dared to open the debate a little bit and give a complete book to the cooperatives and make some progress which I am now echoing. The fear of this bill is the direct consequence of the lack of transparency at the beginning of the work. Even if the lifting of the ban on profit-making associations has not been contested per se, this change will create legal uncertainty which the case law will have to clarify. Indeed, associations will no longer be forced to carry out commercial activities, generate profits, accumulate capital and reinvest it. The ASBL will therefore be not for profit only by name. The only criterion for distinguishing between a company and an association will be the distribution of profits among members or directors. This dividend prohibition for an ASBL does not, in theory, prevent it from providing its members with free services which fall within its scope and which are part of its disinterested purpose: members of a sports association will be able to use sports facilities free of charge or at a reduced price, or a medical association will be able to provide care free of charge or at a reduced price to its members, etc. But the legal uncertainty I was talking about is that the boundary between the hidden dividend, i.e. the indirect distribution of profits, and the free service to members is blurred. The benefits to members that an association would push too far could be considered null. Minister, this combination of concerns about legal impacts and insecurities could hold back the NSOs in their action. Important pedagogical work is therefore needed to prevent uncertainty from having a negative impact and discourages the many volunteer volunteers who work on the ground on a day-to-day basis. This educational work must also be done to make clear this amendment of tax legislation, which risks moving, and the possible shift between corporate tax and corporate tax, even if you say it will remain unchanged. In addition to the insecurity created by the project, the CDH opposes the incorporation of the law of non-profit organisations and company law into a single code. Let's have a little history. The law specific to the ASBL, the almost centenary law of 1921, will be incorporated into a single and common text of company law by definition merchant companies. With this text, we see a mixture of genres, a source of complications. Most of the LSUs that had so far been able to rely almost exclusively on the 1921 law, which included 17,000 words, would have to navigate in codes of 500,000 words in order to fish for the provisions that concerned them. Let's say, several experts saw this in a positive way, which is not our case. For months – as you have witnessed, Minister – we have asked for an informal coordination of the provisions that apply to the non-profit organisations, foundations, non-profit organisations: in fact, a kind of "Law of 1921bis". Finally, you acceded to our request this Tuesday, by having the annual update included in the law. The legibility of the law of non-profit organisations will be ensured, if not increased. This will be included in another text. You're committed to it. Of course, we will pay attention to it. However, the rapprochement between the non-marketer and the merchant in the same text deserves to be recalled certain principles. First, the right of association is distinct from the right to undertake. There is confusion between the freedom of association and the freedom to undertake. Secondly, while commercialisation at the margins of the voluntary sector can boost it, it is not necessary to give in to the temptation to place commodification before the social mission of the association. Finally, in order to avoid this pitfall, the State cannot withdraw financially from the association and from the many subsidies that the federated entities pay to associations for the survival of their activity. If it is indeed necessary to professionalize the voluntary world through the support that can be given to it, it must be done through this support and not through obligations. When new constraints are imposed, the related rights must follow. Since, as we discussed in committee, the voluntary sector is entering the world of commerce as a non-marketer, should we not organise and open up federal social consultation bodies such as the G10 and the National Pensions Committee to associations, which, as a reminder, represent 20% of employment in Belgium? I draw the attention of my colleagues to the importance of giving them their rightful place in social negotiations and of reviving the associative charter in order to reflect the principles mentioned in the reciprocal relations between the State and the associations. Minister, you want to be reassuring. I regret that all the potential impacts of this law have not been sufficiently studied. Isn't there a risk of more competing actions against non-profit organisations? Will the subsidising powers not be more reticent to give subsidies for fear that they will qualify as state aid? Is the tax administration not likely to be more zealous in the pursuit of associations to be subject to corporate tax? Will the burden of proof of the absence of a lucrative purpose or of the incidental nature of lucrative activities not be borne by the non-profit-making non-profit organisations? How can an ASBL prove that it is not for profit? It is a criterion of many subsidies. Who will control it? Are they not likely to develop their business activities lightly and trigger the cascade of consequences on volunteerism (I mean the opportunity for some volunteers to work in associations) as well as the risk of corporate tax liability? Will the subsidising authorities not be tempted to finance the sector less, to the extent that it can support itself through lucrative activities? This is a whole series of questions which have not found satisfactory answers for experts, companies and for all those who have positioned themselves in relation to this problem. However, I cannot fail to point out that these committees have given rise to a real debate. We were able to carry out a substantive work. Minister, I must admit that you have been here every time. You listened to us, you answered. Sometimes it was difficult to convince you. You were arch-bouted about your codes, your collaborators and the experts who, in your firm, had worked the text to the least comma. But let us remember that 540 amendments were approved. Even if we do not agree with the text as it came to fruition here, I can say that it is an important piece of legislation. Unfortunately, it seems to me that there is an imbalance between the merchant world, the economic life of the country, and the voluntary world, to the detriment of the latter. Minister, you have decided to go beyond that. We won't be following you today. I'm sorry about you. We have indeed done a lot of work. We had hoped a little more. This more didn't come, when he could have been present at the meeting. That is why we will abstain today. I wanted to highlight the progress, but the work is unfinished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u120	Mr. Chair, I will begin by noting the quality of the MR's key argument in favour of this bill. Our colleague Vincent Scourneau, absent for the time being, pointed out that this bill was supported by the FEB. That's argumentation! It seems, moreover, that the MR cannot go pee alone without being accompanied by the FEB. Even yesterday, some of its members were invited by the same party so that they could say all the harm they thought of the climate bill, which was co-signed by Mr.Clarinval. Today we hear a right that justifies this reform by invoking competitiveness. We know that this term is the magic word for giving all power to large companies and thus flouting the rights and interests of workers. I note a coincidence: this project will be voted on the same day when we learn that the European Parliament's TAX3 committee has ranked Belgium among the seven Member States that are considered tax havens. What's the connection? It seems obvious to me. This concept implies not only the fiscal aspect, but also the opacity and the very great flexibility of company law. Specifically, Minister, your bill boasts, in its explanatory statement, the very flexible regulation of the state of Delaware in the United States. This is the Eldorado of Minister Geens: a state with more companies than inhabitants and where 285,000 companies are domiciled in a single building. With this project, the government creates an ultraliberal right of companies, notably by introducing the doctrine of the registered office. This allows companies to freely choose the accounting rules and company law applicable to them. Moreover, this freedom is not limited to European courts, so any company active in Belgium will be able to decide – without any hindrance – to establish a fictitious seat, an address "letter box" anywhere in the world, for example in the Delaware building where 285 000 companies are domiciled. Some believe that this will de facto lead to the reintroduction of bearer shares in Belgium, which would be a famous step backwards and a new form of opacity – which is also a constituent element of tax havens. There is the responsibility or rather the irresponsibility of the directors. This responsibility has been limited. It could be said that limited liability companies will become companies of unlimited irresponsibility! Although this deflation of liability has been limited, it is not normal to limit the liability of directors of a corporation. Obviously, since Maurice Lippens and the other administrators responsible for the fall of Fortis escaped all condemnation, this gives wings to those who work for the criminal and civil impunity of capitalists thirsting for profit. It is known how unlimited the remuneration of directors and CEOs of these large companies is. We therefore have unlimited remuneration on the one hand and limited liability on the other. There is also the question of multiple voting rights. I have heard here the arguments, or rather the alibi used to justify this multiple right to vote: stability, the fight against speculation, etc. It happens that classical shareholder democracy (an action, a vote) is already shocking because it is a form of plutocracy that gives power to the largest shareholders. Here, we go even further since the large historical shareholders will have an even greater power by having to invest less of their capital. Pierre Nothomb, partner at Deminor, said in La Libre Belgique, "This is a law that could give too much power to Albert Brother." It was May 26, 2018, he could not yet imagine that in the meantime Albert Brother's death would intervene. [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u121	Mr President, I would like colleagues to make a little sense of humor, but it has been going on since the beginning of my speech! That's an exaggeration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u122	Trop is too much and too much is trop!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u123	Mr Cheron, if you want the floor, ask the President and speak, but if possible, stop your permanent hustle and bustle!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u124	Go on, Mr. Van Heesees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u125	So I said that the late Albert Brother was a specialist, but not the only one, who had developed a cascade engineering to have as much economic control as possible with a minimum of capital. This project will increase this capacity to leverage capital use. Finally, there are the NSAs which will now be governed by the same rules as commercial enterprises. It is so liberal that trade rules are applied to non-profit associations. We really sell the ASBLs, as if being a non-marketer was a tare! You're turning our country into something monstrous! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. After all the leaks, papers and all the tax scandals that involve multinationals, after the banking and financial crisis of 2008, after the current mobilization for the climate which denounces the lack of efforts of 300 major companies responsible in Belgium for 40% of the CO2 emission, after the scandal of multinational pharmaceutical companies that pump the means of social security through conflicts of interest with certain ministerial cabinets of this government, after all, the population waits for much more severe control of the big companies. What is this piece of legislation doing? Exactly the opposite! You will understand that we will not support him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u126	If no one asks for the floor anymore, I'd be happy to give it to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u127	Mr President, let me first and foremost thank all the members of the Trade and Economic Law Committee, of the government, of the old majority and of the old opposition for the constructive debates we have had. In fact, the draft that could be voted on today is the result of everyone's contribution. The atmosphere that ruled in committee was an atmosphere of cooperation. I would almost say a "cooperative society" but with a disinterested aim, as we all tried to serve the general interest and to reach agreement on the points on which we obviously had necessarily ideological differences of opinion. First of all, I take things in a systematic order, not in the order of the questions. The distinction between the merchant and the non-marketer, I know it is very dear to you, Mr. de Lamotte. I'm not going to be able to convince you, just like you couldn't convince me. It's no big deal to the extent that we respect each other. I believe that the innovation of the legislation is that the respective aims of associations and companies have been defined much more clearly, with a view to avoiding and preventing drifts in the indirect distribution of profits in the NSAs. We aligned them and gave them the chance to have objects and therefore activities quite similar, because the distinction between the two is not the object but the purpose. Although we do not necessarily agree on this, I believe that after that, unconvinced associations could become so by the fact that they will have more freedom in the exercise of their activities, but less freedom in respect of their purpose - which is ultimately the purpose of the reform as to this distinction. I know that you have always defended informal codification. You said I only gave up on Tuesday. Indeed, I gave up on Tuesday with regard to the inclusion of such an informal codification in the code, but every time you insisted on it, I promised you this codification - as I promised you a brochure that was prepared and printed in good time. As far as the registered office is concerned, too, we will not agree with each other. It is my conviction that we must make Belgian company and association law attractive from the point of view of establishment, as is the case in the Netherlands, Great Britain and Denmark. I would regret that a city such as Brussels or an economic attraction pool such as Antwerp could not use its registered office in Belgian company law as an argument for international investors. I would like to point out once again that, through a draft which will soon be on the agenda, we are completely neutralizing this tax and that it is by no means the intention of Belgium to make a fiscal paradise. As far as taxation is concerned, we will continue to look at the real seat. I come to the question of the "simple society" which was introduced as a name by the Act of 15 April 2018, which entered into force on 1 November. Companies governed by ordinary law will obviously not have to adapt their names, especially since no penalties are provided for in cases where they do not. Their field of activity and their current functioning remain intact in all respects, as there is no fundamental change in relation to the common society, now referred to as a "simple society". In Dutch still: partnership. It is true that these companies will have to register as companies, but the questioner was aware of that. That is the case from 1 November last. There have been huge debates on the limited liability of drivers. Those who have debated this with us in committee know that there have been two important reasons for moving towards a limitation of directors' liability. That is, on the one hand, the fact that Commissioners of companies have seen their liability reduced by this Parliament, before I had any political responsibility, by a scale of up to EUR 12.5 million. If Commissioners who are usually organised in large company structures in listed companies, often with thousands of employees and large investments, are held liable by this Parliament but up to EUR 12.5 million, if there is a cap there, as it is called in the jargon, up to that amount, then it seemed logical to allow directors who are always natural persons at the end of the journey to enjoy a liability limitation in the same way. Drivers have at least as much difficulty in securing that liability as Commissioners. We all know that drivers of natural persons rarely have assets of up to EUR 12.5 million. That was a first reason. A second reason, indeed, is that Mr De Roover has pointed out that workers are today exempt from liability for ordinary errors, that the employer bears that liability and that the employer cannot even take regres on the employee for ordinary errors. So we thought it would be reasonable not to make the driver's office too unattractive for drivers and to provide for a limitation of liability according to a scale in function of the company up to the same amount of EUR 12.5 million. I would agree – you will see, Mr de Lamotte, that we can agree – that your wish is to reduce the ceiling for small businesses and ASBLs to 125,000 euros so that responsibility is adapted to their size. I come to the cooperative society, for which it has indeed not been easy to achieve a full statute with the sector and with colleagues. Sometimes by playing an extension one achieves a better result. I am glad that by playing this extension we have achieved that better result, because it was not easy to find a good statute for the cooperative society in which the sectors and political parties could agree. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this in recent months and in particular in recent weeks. There's been a lot of consultation. This is an amendment that was unanimously adopted in committee and I am very happy with it. The cooperative aim, the cooperative finality, is described in the draft law, after amendment, until everyone's approval. Finally, my short story fits to thank the experts. In essence, that is a lot of Belgian company professors who have helped, but in particular four professors who have been very active. These are in alphabetical order the professors De Wulf, Foriers, Nelissen Grade and Wyckaert. I am also very grateful to my cabinet for working on this draft day and night. I think I can certainly mention Mrs Korkmazer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u128	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u129	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3119/22) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3119/22) The draft law has 45 articles. The bill has 45 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u130	Art. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. • 549 – Meyrem Almaci cs (3119/23)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u131	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u132	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 2, 13, 14, 16 and 18.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u133	Article adopted by article: 1, 3 to 12, 15, 17 and 19 to 45.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip272x.u134	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. I'm suspending the meeting for technical reasons. We will resume the meeting at 7:07 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 February 2019 at 7.07 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, February 28, 2019 at 7:07 p.m.
