ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u1	Minister, I welcome you and thank you for making yourself available today, even though, of course, we expect it from a minister. A number of Members have topical questions about the state of affairs which we would like to discuss with you very quickly. The questions are asked in order of presentation. After that, other Members can also ask for the floor. Then the Minister can answer all questions. The question is covered by the two-minute regulatory speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u2	Mr President, we have sent an e-mail with the proposal that the Minister for Employment should also be responsible for opening the debate to the whole problem of workers at Thomas Cook. We are talking today about consumers, which are also very important, but we can also take the opportunity to ask Minister Beke as Minister of Work about the uncertainty for the more than 600 employees at Thomas Cook.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u3	I received your e-mail, ma'am, but yesterday it was too late for the services to organise another joint committee meeting. There's a lot of questions. The social aspects will also be addressed. It is up to the Minister to decide whether he will give the answers. He's nodding. Well, I guess that's what's gonna happen. If there are specific questions on this subject, I assume that in the event of new developments, questions can also be asked in plenary tomorrow. The Social Affairs Committee may not want the whole social debate to take place in our committee either. We need to strike a balance. However, you are free to ask the questions you wish to ask. At first, however, we are dealing here with economics and consumer protection. You'll understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u4	Mr President, I understand that it is difficult to bring the two committees together in such a short time. I believe that, given his skills, the minister will also be able to say a word about the jobs at stake. I will ask this important question in the light of the current context. Mr President, you said that we could ask questions and I thank you for that. That is necessary in the light of the situation. We must not create a precedent, but not act in this way would have been a lack of responsibility on our part.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u5	It's not in my nature to be very strict or play mother-in-law. We start with the questions, in the order in which they were submitted. Mrs Van Bossuyt has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u6	Mr Minister, yesterday the British tour operator Thomas Cook became known to drop the books. This is not yet the case in Belgium, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. The continental leg of the company, known to us primarily as Neckermann, claims that it has not stopped its activities yet. We heard this after the works council which took place yesterday in Zwijnaarde. However, the company will no longer accept new customers. Today we see very well the usefulness of traveling the Guarantee Fund. The Guarantee Fund has, however, established the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook. We read that on his website, but it is not quite clear. Previously, the Dutch counterpart of the Guarantee Fund, the GSC, had done the same for the Dutch branch of Thomas Cook. Legally, a travel operator is insured against the consequences of bankruptcy. In Belgium, this is done through the Guarantee Fund to ensure that, in the event of bankruptcy, the passengers affected are least affected at the financial level. However, there is still a great deal of uncertainty, not only for the staff, although there was a bit more clarity for them yesterday, but especially for the many thousands of travellers. This morning I heard that there are currently 12,000 people traveling with Thomas Cook. Those people are very worried. We have all read in the newspapers the stories of people who came out of the pool in bathing suits and were pressured by the hotel to pay 1,000 euros. Those people are wondering if they're gonna make it home. People who still have to leave wonder if their journey can continue. We hear a lot of different reports about this. In our view, it is very important that there is clear and reliable information for travellers who are already travelling or are yet to leave. I think that information was hard to find. I have the following questions. Firstly, how many travellers are at risk of a possible bankruptcy of Thomas Cook's Belgian branch? Secondly, when did you reach the first signs of a possible bankruptcy of or serious difficulties with Thomas Cook? Has the FPS Economy taken action at the first signals to ensure that Thomas Cook's passengers would be adequately informed in the event of bankruptcy? Thirdly, do you have any idea whether the Guarantee Fund has taken measures to prepare for a possible bankruptcy of Thomas Cook? Does it have enough resources to help all those who have been hurt? Fourthly, how are travellers using the British leg of the company helped? Finally, a lot of travelers were informed on the spot by their tour guide. How does it work for travelers who are travelling without a tour guide or tour guide on the spot? Yesterday I took a look at the website of the FPS Economy and the Guarantee Fund. I had to click through a number of times to find out about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u7	Mr. Secretary, it will happen to you, working hard for a whole year and saving up for your dream journey and suddenly it falls into the water. Or worse, you're on your dream destination, but you can't get away from it, and you're under pressure from the hotelier. They're poignant stories of people, sometimes of people we know. These are young couples who see their honeymoon canceled. It's all very painful. If your dream holiday suddenly becomes a nightmare because of the bankruptcy of Thomas Cook and if there is still bad communication, then we are all angry and indignant. We are angry about the lack of clarity, but we are also afraid of the situation of the people who are still at a distant destination and also of the uncertainty among the employees. They are faced with great uncertainty. I would like to express this respect for the employees who are working hard here in Belgium to build everything, who are working in difficult conditions and in great uncertainty. Chapeau for those people. They are still constructive and positive and continue to hope for the best. We hope with them for the best. The situation changes from day to day, actually from hour to hour. On Monday the situation was still quite positive, which was also confirmed by the consultations you had with them. Last night, however, we heard that two companies in Belgium are being discontinued and that a third company, Thomas Cook Retail Belgium, is applying for a WCO procedure. We can follow the situation quite well here, but for tourists abroad there is undoubtedly a lot of uncertainty and it is difficult to follow the situation closely. Those people would like to go home as soon as possible. That is why I would have liked to know if you have any idea how many Belgians are still abroad and when and how they will be repatriated. They also want to be compensated as soon as possible for the damage they have suffered. Fortunately, the Guarantee Fund exists in Belgium. It has been decided to give priority to bringing the people who are abroad home as soon as possible. I think this is a good choice. Afterwards, the focus will be on the best possible compensation for the damage. It is important to know whether the Guarantee Fund has sufficient financial resources. If we can believe the media, this is the case effectively. Can you confirm, Minister, that the Guarantee Fund has sufficient resources? The fact that it has sufficient financial resources is important, but it must also have sufficient capacity to keep everything running. A lot of people need to be repatriated. That is the biggest task the Guarantee Fund has ever had. It has seven or eight staff members. There'll be a lot of calls coming in and the website will be crowded. That website is down right now, probably because too many people are looking. Does the Guarantee Fund have sufficient manpower to sustain everything, or should additional capacity be sought temporarily to ensure that travellers get their money back within a reasonable period of time? For the many employees of Thomas Cook, it is of course afraid to wait and see if they can keep their job. According to the media, they have been paid for September, but the big question is whether they will be able to keep their jobs. One company already relies on the WCO procedure. What are your chances of finding a buyer? Do you have any more news on that? We certainly hope that it will succeed. Finally, Thomas Cook is an icon within the travel sector. It's an important player. My question is therefore whether bankruptcy has an impact on other players in the travel sector. However, we must avoid chaos and the fact that the fall of one company in the travel sector would have a domino effect and would have a negative impact on other companies. How do you estimate that impact? How can we prevent other companies in the travel sector from being dragged into bankruptcy or suffering negative consequences? The Guarantee Fund is very important, but I believe that many people do not know that they will not be protected by the Guarantee Fund if they book themselves, without intervention from a travel agency. I think it would be a good idea to launch a campaign to raise awareness so that people know what the risks are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u8	Mr President, I would like to thank you for responding so quickly to our request to convene the committee. Mr. Secretary, the problems at Thomas Cook came rather unexpectedly. Many involved were surprised by the news and that automatically causes chaos. That is inevitable, but it is very important that this is quickly switched on, especially when we talk about a situation that has an impact on such a large scale. That remains, however, somewhat out of date. We have the impression that there is still a great deal of uncertainty, first and foremost for the stranded passengers. You said on the radio yesterday they didn't have to pay in the hotels. I'd love to hear you say it. Imagine sitting there with your children. They are held hostage for hours in the lobby of a hotel, the card is blocked and there is no information about a repatriation flight or reimbursement of the costs. What are we supposed to do? It is only logical that we should simply pay and that we should hope that these costs will be reimbursed. I hear people even had to pay the original price four times at the hotel. So there is some work to protect the consumer and that is a task for you. We hear a lot about the Guarantee Fund, but that only covers the cost of the journey. Is there any possibility of extending the Guarantee Fund and including the additional costs? If not, what message do we send to the travellers who are being held hostage there? Has the Guarantee Fund, as in the Netherlands, contacted the various accommodations where Belgians are staying to ensure payment and thus reduce the pressure on stranded travellers? Is there, like in the Netherlands, a telephone number where people can contact with their questions? It's the very first time there's been any damage on such a large scale. Is the Guarantee Fund prepared for this? Will those payments happen soon? How long will travellers have to wait for their compensation? There is also a lot of uncertainty about the company's policy. Thomas Cook apologizes to the travellers today, but in the meantime the bosses have raised 22 million euros over the last five years. You can say that it is an international company and we cannot do much about it, but the Belgian President also received almost EUR 2 million during that period. One can apologize to the traveller, but if he is taken hostage there, does not get any information and hardly knows what to do, it is of course strange to see the bosses get on their private jet and fly around the world. We must also discuss this in depth. It is very strange, for example, that Thomas Cook only ensures the payments to the hotels afterwards. The government could impose rules in this area. At the time when the traveller arrives at the hotel, it should be possible for the payment to be passed on, thereby improving consumer protection. Our question is what you intend to do about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u9	Mrs. Depraetere, can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u10	Mr President, I come to my final point. There's uncertainty for the staff. Mr. Secretary, you were with the company on Monday. I assume that at that meeting you spoke not only about the traveller but also about the staff. Seventy-five employees have already been fired immediately. There is also a great deal of uncertainty for the other 500 staff. Wages are paid, which is good news. What is going to happen in the future, however? With that payment, the uncertainty is certainly not solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u11	Mr President, Minister, like each of the colleagues here, I have been following closely the events since the declaration of the bankruptcy of the Thomas Cook Group in the United Kingdom. The situation is very complicated especially for clients, Belgian tourists. According to today's press, there are 13,000 people. Seventy to eighty per cent of them have to return by air and face a complex situation. In addition, of course, we are also thinking about workers. Indeed, it has been reported that 75 people have been laid off and that the situation remains very uncertain for the others. In doing so, my group is concerned about both the workers and the travellers concerned. My question therefore relates to these two aspects, Minister. For customers and tourists who are still travelling, there is the Travel Guarantee Fund. I would like to ask you about its funding. I have seen that the annual base is set at around EUR 2.2 billion and that the Fund's officials consider this to be sufficient. Can you confirm that number? Can you also confirm that each traveller will be reimbursed? My second question concerns the situation on the ground. This morning, Test-Achats denounces racketeering practices, hostage taking of tourists, families with children who are asked to advance amounts that are not due. What can be done for those people who are abroad and who are facing such a situation? I read that they were offered to speak to Belgian diplomatic representations, consulates or embassies? Do you actually advise them to do this? It is important to be clear about the difficult situation on the spot and the very dishonest practices that are being used. Finally, the Guarantee Fund is managed by a team of seven people. Do you intend to temporarily strengthen this team in view of the size of the number of files? Indeed, there are tens of thousands of cases to be handled. As far as employment is concerned, this morning we learned of the bankruptcy of three entities with the dismissal of 75 people. What accompaniments can you plan at this stage? I know you met the staff on Monday, which is a very good thing. What has emerged from the discussions you had on this occasion in terms of employment? In addition, what avenues are envisaged for the 501 workers who are awaiting a decision on judicial reorganization? Is there a resumption? Is there any question of potential retraining for part of the staff? These are important issues for all families who are in great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u12	Mr President, Minister, when it became known that Thomas Cook's parent company was in difficult waters and had to apply for bankruptcy, the Belgian branch of the company initially communicated that everything would go on in our country without too much trouble. That was an premature and, above all, lying communication to the travellers and employees of Thomas Cook Belgium, because it appeared that there were also late payments here and the company was on the verge of bankruptcy with us. I understand, Minister, that there is little you can do about bankruptcy in itself, but the question is how to deal with it. Our concern as politicians, especially in this committee, must go to the affected and stranded travellers and the workers who are at risk of losing their jobs. Apart from the questions that my colleagues have just asked, Thomas Cook has requested protection from his creditors through the WCO. Apart from the aspect of this and the conditions that will be legally imposed by the court, we wonder whether Thomas Cook will be able to remain active in the coming months. You have had a meeting with the top of Thomas Cook. What are the guarantees from the company with regard to travellers if the activities were to continue in the coming months under the WCO? We also note that there are few important players in the sector, unlike in our neighbouring countries. We can almost speak of an oligopolistic market situation at the moment. How do you see the situation for the travel sector, if Thomas Cook Belgium would eventually put down the books and not be able to make a start? We must avoid a monopoly at all times. In what way was the government communicating about the Guarantee Fund to the affected travellers who are currently stuck or worried? There is only one way at the moment, namely the way of clarity for the injured travellers who do not know where they are at, who have been informed very late, who have left because of Thomas Cook's lying messages and who are now being held hostage in their hotel. What happens to Belgian travellers who booked their holidays via Thomas Cook or Neckermann Netherlands or UK? Will their travel expenses also be covered by our Guarantee Fund or should they rely on the arrangements applicable in those countries? What procedure should travellers follow in order to be able to claim the Guarantee Fund? How long does a payout wait for in such cases? How will the government also communicate to the outside world in this area? Finally, Mr President, it is a matter of urgency to note that the Thomas Cook Summit has paid tens of millions of euros in bonuses over the last few years, but the tour operator has not fulfilled its obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u13	Mr President, Minister, my colleague will speak more about consumers, while my questions relate more to staff. What measures will the government take to ensure the future of Thomas Cook's staff? What will happen to staff working abroad? They have a Swiss contract and do not know if they will get back. There is a great deal of uncertainty about this. As far as the impact on the whole sector is concerned, I myself worked at Sabena and I know what a case of this magnitude means and what its domino effect is for the whole sector. I am thinking, for example, of Brussels Airlines which insured a large part of Thomas Cook's flights. What will be the impact on Brussels Airlines staff and other airport staff? Finally, did Thomas Cook receive State aid? If so, of what kind and for what amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u14	Mr Goblet is sorry. I give the floor to Mr Prévot for his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u15	Mr President, do not count on the comments that will follow in my time, because I would like first of all to thank you warmly for the organisation of this meeting, and also to thank the Minister for his availability. Nor could I begin my intervention without thinking about the 75 workers who are going to lose their jobs, and about the 500 or more workers who are in uncertainty. As we have seen, there are two parts to this file. The first is the social aspect, which I will address. The second is consumer protection. The 500 or more workers, who are in uncertainty in Belgium, have experienced an emotional lift in recent days. They were told everything and its opposite. On Monday night, we realized that things were going to be very complicated, especially when the unions came out saying that there was a 1% chance that solutions would emerge, and that it looked like a farewell message. It has been confirmed that 75 jobs are lost and uncertainty remains for the 500 or more workers. Minister, what will be the next step? Do you understand the feeling of uncertainty among workers? Can you take stock of the situation or, in any case, provide us with a snapshot of it, and tell us what the government is doing to deal with it? What is planned for the 75 laid-off workers? Are conversion cells being implemented or are they going to be implemented? What about the 500 other workers temporarily saved? They were appeased about their September salary, but what about the coming months? As a minister, how do you assess the chances of continuing this third industry? What do you think are the chances of success? Are we not witnessing the sausageing of a comprehensive redundancies procedure? To ask the question is, unfortunately, already a partial answer. Consumers also experienced the emotional elevator. They received different answers, notably thanks to Test-Achats, which very quickly opened a call line for Thomas Cook's travellers. The Travel Guarantee Fund has also been activated. This Monday, travellers were told to sleep on both ears and continue their holidays. Yet we realize that things are not as obvious. Yesterday, Brussels Airlines cancelled two round-trip flights to Tunisia; there were 350 blocked passengers in that country and 200 private departures. Test-Achats deplores the situation and other colleagues have reported rock situations abroad. Of course, the circumstances cannot be described as "sereines". Minister, can you provide an update on the situation of travellers? What clear information can you provide to these uncertain individuals? Can you specify the conditions for assistance from the Travel Guarantee Fund? Does it have sufficient means to repatriate and compensate the persons concerned? Finally, I would have liked to know the general feeling of the Thomas Cook case. There was talk of a multifactorial situation: Brexit, competition from low cost companies, the influence of the Internet, etc. We realize that the future of this company, which employs a total of 22,000 workers, was played in a weekend, during which it had to find 200 million to avoid bankruptcy. I would therefore like to know your analysis of the influence of financial speculation in this bankruptcy. Thank you already for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u16	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your presence. A lot has been said. For my part, I have first of all a thought for the workers. An extremely heavy social balance was expected, since 600 workers were employed by Thomas Cook in Belgium. As a first step, we are talking about 75 dismissals. But again, there are many uncertainties. In any case, a dismissal is a dismissal of too many. You'll agree with me. Two out of three companies file the balance sheet in Belgium. Five hundred jobs would be saved, but we are still talking about an outdated economic model. It is hard to imagine that a judicial reorganization can bear fruit. How is this going to happen? Are there any guarantees for the future of these 500 jobs today? Minister, you met with Thomas Cook Belgium's management. What came out of that meeting? Can we reassure Thomas Cook's employees today? On the consumer side, how many Belgians are still abroad? We're talking 10,000, 12,000 or 13,000. Do you have more precise figures? It is understood that the Guarantee Fund will have the capacity to intervene financially for all travellers but it will only intervene for "packages", i.e. all inclusive stays, flight + hotel. However, many travellers made only a hotel reservation or a flight. What's going on with these travelers? Are any measures taken to assist them? The press has given us quite amazing testimonies of travellers on the spot who can no longer go back to their hotel because they are asked to pay a second or even a third time their stay in order to continue to enjoy the infrastructure. This is obviously unacceptable. The Guarantee Fund states that it is not necessary to pay. In the meantime, these travellers are in a state of embarrassment, in great difficulty. What measures are being taken to assist them? What can we do? They are probably waiting for repatriation, but in the meantime, what should they do? Who do they have to call? How should they react? Finally, what are the consequences for Brussels Airlines, of which Thomas Cook is the main customer? Today, the flights were cancelled. On the other hand, it is understood that aircraft have been chartered for repatriation. What about the future? There will be an undeniable impact. Brussels Airlines announced that, in any event, it knew that Thomas Cook would not be able to honour payment arrears. Can we therefore already estimate the consequences for the company?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u17	Minister, I will not repeat what has already been asked. However, it is very important that specific questions are answered and that effective communication is made. It is often not easy to find answers, especially in a digital world. Some travellers have booked anonymously and now feel alone. I have a specific question. Is it known which hoteliers have been paid by Thomas Cook, so that travellers can experience their journey completely and without stress? Now they may become victims of unjust blackmail. Then repatriation may be less urgent and urgent and the cost of it can be reduced, especially when empty places can be taken in other aircraft. I also have the next suggestion. The consumer must not be blackmailed. Can a sanction be drawn up at European level for the catering industry, which is to recover the amount that hoteliers demand from travellers, even though they were paid? In this way, hoteliers know that this behaviour can turn against them if they treat the consumer unfairly. Finally, fortunately, there is the Guarantee Fund, but the workforce seems to have only five employees. How can these five workers organise the whole repatriation, which is most urgent? Has other parties been called upon, such as the FPS Foreign Affairs Office or other airlines, who may be able to provide spontaneous assistance, by releasing empty spaces? This might make this repatriation faster and easier than if only those five people were working on it. Finally, is there, honestly, any view of a valuable buyer? Perhaps the question will come a little early, but there should also be no kissing with a possibility that is not there. The hard truth is better in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u18	Mr President, I would like to comment briefly on the Guarantee Fund for Travel in addition to the aspects already mentioned in the debate, which are all valuable. The Guarantee Fund Travel is a very recent fund, which was set up with the implementation of the travel law of 2017 and of a royal decision taken to implement that law. It was, of course, created for something that everyone hopes will never happen. At the same time, we must at the same time be very critical of our existing legislation. What is happening today is a kind of stress test for our regulations. It is very important to check whether existing legislation is sufficiently robust. The travel law as well as the royal decree provide a rather rudimentary framework, the direction of which is mainly in the hands of the sector. Consumer protection is always a delicate balance between, on the one hand, what is regulated by law and, on the other hand, what is in the hands of the sector. Just because it is such a delicate balance, we must now be critical of how things work in practice. This is only about package travel and not about other arrangements. There is also uncertainty about costs. The law says that there must be no unnecessary delay in payment. That's a very broad expression. The Guarantee Fund recommends going to the consulate in the event of problems on the ground. However, the corresponding costs will not be borne. I've got some big questions most of all. I am concerned about the handling of these claims in practice: 10,000 people are now travelling and 40,000 have to leave later this year. Today, the theme is high on our radar, but damage claims will still have to be dealt with for the rest of the year. Minister, what are you doing today? Are you thinking of a temporary reinforcement of the service? Are you in contact with the sector? Can the sector itself supplement temporary staff? Or can you do that from the Department of Economic Inspection? Do you engage in dialogue with the sector on the costs to be reimbursed? Are you also concerned about customer friendliness with attention to watch tones, IVR functions, websites that are flat and the need for consumers to receive a quick response? Are you planning an evaluation in the short and medium term? I would like us to evaluate how things are going, to identify pain points and, if necessary, to strengthen our rules. I leave it in the middle whether the RB should be changed or whether there should be an initiative from the sector. I do think that we need to learn lessons now to ensure that, if this is to happen, the crisis can be dealt with better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u19	Mr Minister, I will not talk about the social aspect, since my colleague Maria Vindevoghel has done it. I will move on to the essentials, since we are sitting here in the Committee on the Economy. Travellers concerned must urgently obtain the guarantee that they will be able to complete their holidays or that they will be reimbursed in the event of cancellation. Thomas Cook's clients are mainly workers who worked hard all year long before leaving for a week or two in the sun. As such, the Travel Guarantee Fund has been activated. The officials are reassuring in the press. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you a few questions, Minister. Can you explain clearly who is and who is not covered by this Fund? Do you already have an idea of the number of travellers involved? How long will they have to wait before being reimbursed? According to the press, the Fund in question is completely overburdened. How many employees do they work there? What is the total amount contained in this Fund? Can he insure all refunds? The Fund is financed by travel agencies, which pay a tiny percentage of their turnover. Can you tell us more about this method of funding? How highly did tour operator Thomas Cook contribute annually? Minister, another question relates to the price of tickets sold by competition. The law of supply and demand obliges, we are already talking about an increase in rates in the other companies. Can you confirm this information and, above all, is it possible for you to intervene? Today, we have heard hallucinating testimonies from travellers taken hostage by unscrupulous hoteliers who demand additional costs. You advise tourists not to pay them, at the risk of not being reimbursed. Can we not change the rules given the exceptional nature of the situation? Indeed, fearing being blocked at the hotel, the tourists will still pay off.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u20	I believe that everyone who wanted to ask for the floor has also been given the floor. The Minister has received a lot of pertinent questions. We hope for clear answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate and for organising it as soon as possible. The situation is not only topical, it is also serious and it evolves day after day. This means that I cannot answer a number of questions today. Sitting with the Guarantee Fund, for example, is planned for tomorrow. Those people could not free themselves today to go through some of the questions asked with you. I'll come back to that later. In the meantime, I will give you the state of play as far as we know it at the moment. The situation is serious, primarily for those who have booked a trip with Thomas Cook and who suddenly find that there is great uncertainty whether they will ever get back the money they have saved and whether they will be able to leave on holiday. We put these questions to you when we brought Thomas Cook's leadership on Monday. How can we give these people as strong a guarantee as possible that their rights are guaranteed? We then referred to the Guarantee Fund, which the people of Thomas Cook obviously know, and how it can be activated. It's also about the people who are traveling with Thomas Cook today. Several Members have referred to the stories that we have all been able to read via the Internet or the newspapers, according to which the situation of these travellers is being abused abroad by charging them with additional costs. The situation is serious for those travellers, but it is also serious for the staff. I share Mr Dierick's view that the people who work for Thomas Cook today and give the best of themselves, not only to reassure travellers but also to see what can happen, do so in particularly difficult circumstances. They do, however. Our concern, and I believe that everyone here is going out to both consumers and staff. I shall come back to that later, although I do not wish to conflict with the Committee on Social Affairs. I will give a number of answers as far as possible. First of all, I would like to outline the background to the problem with regard to Thomas Cook. It was known for a long time that the British travel group Thomas Cook was in bad papers. However, the problem has been accentuated when the group applied for bankruptcy protection in the United States last week. According to British figures, the group had to raise around EUR 1 billion to keep its head above water. Last week there was a rescue plan with the cooperation of a Chinese shareholder and a number of creditors. At the end of last week there was also the bad news that a further EUR 200 million was needed in the short term to bridge the winter season. These figures are, of course, impressive, but they are a group with a turnover of about EUR 10 billion, 20,000 employees worldwide and about 20 million journeys per year. Those Members who have underlined how massive this organisation is and how many people it is about workers and consumers who have given their confidence are, of course, right and these figures prove that. The group has started knocking on the door of the UK government for an additional short-term loan, but the UK government has responded negatively. This led to the familiar consequence, namely that Thomas Cook UK was declared bankrupt. Several people have said something about the high fees given to the leadership of Thomas Cook. Those are fees at Thomas Cook UK and it's not about the management of Thomas Cook Belgium, just to be clear. Let there be no confusion about that. I now outline the state of Thomas Cook Belgium. The group Thomas Cook contains three main components: Thomas Cook UK, Thomas Cook Scandinavia and Thomas Cook Continental. Thomas Cook employs around 600 people in Belgium. The Belgian companies are part of the continental leg, which includes Germany, which is not insignificant. It concerns the companies Thomas Cook Belgium, Thomas Cook Retail, Thomas Cook Retail Belgium and Thomas Cook Financial Services Belgium. As soon as the news of British bankruptcy came out, I contacted Thomas Cook's men in charge on Monday morning. We sat together immediately on Monday afternoon. They asked what that conversation resulted in. I remembered from that conversation that the British bankruptcy did not have an immediate and direct effect on the Belgian companies of the group, that all scheduled departures took place on Monday and that all travellers returned that day as planned. About a thousand travellers leave during this period and some 13,400 are now staying abroad. That's the figure that was given yesterday. From the precautionary principle, it has been decided not to conclude new travel contracts. The Belgian authorities are investigating the possible slopes to ensure the continuation of Belgian activities, to safeguard the future of Belgian workers and to allow the journeys already booked to continue. That was Monday afternoon information. It was also made clear to us at that time that the situation could change hours after hours and that it had to be evaluated according to the steps that would be taken, the contacts that one would have and also what would happen at international level. Things have evolved and on Monday evening Thomas Cook unexpectedly informed us that Brussels Airlines would not allow a number of flights to take place. As a result, a number of travellers were stranded yesterday. There has been contact with the Travel Guarantee Fund, which is responsible for the financial guarantee and the guarantee in case of financial inability. Mr Van der Straeten, you refer to the Guarantee Fund, but it is not the case that it was only established in 2017. It was founded in 1995. In the meantime, some 24,000 people have already used the Guarantee Fund in the past. Around EUR 10 million has already been paid out. In 2017, however, my predecessor, Kris Peeters, I think you are referring to this, and the Guarantee Fund has been strengthened and strengthened to broaden and enhance consumer protection. This was done in 2017, but it is not the case that the Guarantee Fund was only established then. This measure came after an evaluation of the work and following a European directive, which had to be transposed into Belgian law. It seems logical to me that we will also have to evaluate the situation we are facing today. As regards the sales activities to travellers, Thomas Cook Retail Belgium has employed 530 people, it has been decided to apply to the company's court for protection against creditors. This means waiting for the Business Continuity Act, the WCO, as far as its future is concerned. To the questions relating to employees, the following. As appeared in the newspapers today, the 75 employees have not yet been fired. If a failure is pronounced, it is up to the curator to determine what should happen, so whether there will be a resignation or not. In the event of dismissal and, in so far as there are no funds from the failure and outstanding wages, holiday allowances, closure premiums, etc., open, the Close-up Fund may intervene up to a maximum of EUR 25,000 per employee. That's the situation of the 75 employees you were talking about in your question. What is the insolvency guarantee? Travellers who book a package trip with a tour operator shall be granted special protection in the event of financial insolvency by the travel agency with which they have booked. This unique protection follows the European legal rules that were adopted almost 30 years ago. The obligation for travel agencies to provide this guarantee was introduced in 1990 in the Directive on package travel, holidays and tours. It was replaced in 2015 by the Directive on package travel and related travel services, which imposes the same guarantees. Our country has chosen to provide this guarantee through an insurance obligation. This approach has always led to the reimbursement and/or repatriation of passengers who are victims of financial insolvency. As far as we know, there has never been a serious flaw in this system. The Belgian traveller has always been very well protected. I gave the figures on this a few moments ago. The Economic Inspectorate shall ensure that travel agencies comply with this legal obligation. The insurance companies shall inform them of the names of the travel companies which are insured with them. When a travel company's insurance contract is cancelled, the Inspectorate immediately verifies whether the travel company is affiliated with another insurer. If a travel agency is in default, measures shall be taken, where appropriate, for an action for cessation to prevent it from entering into other travel contracts. In the last year, it's happened five times. As far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, as a result of the legal obligation laid down in the 1994 Law, a sectoral initiative was taken in 1995 to set up a mutual insurance company. So it's a private insurance company, don't let us forget that. At present there are 477 affiliated travel companies and organisations. The directors have been appointed by ABTO, the Association of Belgian Tour Operators, the BTO, Belgian Travel Organisation, VLARA, the Flemish Association of Travel Agents and UPAV, Union Professional des Agences de Voyages. That is important, because the demand for the reinforcement of the Guarantee Fund, the occupation, the staff and so on belongs primarily to them. I understand that these organisations have also been contacted to see how to strengthen the occupation of the Guarantee Fund. We shall also be sitting with the Guarantee Fund on this. That is one of the reasons why we invited them to sit around the table. What does the Guarantee Fund Travel do? The Travel Guarantee Fund ensures travel companies and, as such, provides travellers with the guarantee provided by the law when a member travel company finds itself in a situation of financial inability, so that it is no longer able to fulfil its obligations towards passengers. That is the situation we have established on Tuesday morning. This is legally important, because the Guarantee Fund will only be able to take action. The Guarantee Fund will provide for the following. If the journey has not yet started, it will reimburse the traveller the funds he has already paid. If the journey is ongoing and certain travel services included in the travel package are not provided due to a financial inability, then the Guarantee Fund will intervene. If the package travel includes transport, then the fund will be responsible for repatriation when the journey has already started. That is what the Fund is giving priority to today. They want to ensure that the people who are abroad can return. So a hierarchy of priorities has been created. I think this makes sense and that everyone understands that. Where appropriate, pending repatriation, accommodation is provided for travellers and, if possible, the insurer can also ensure the continuation of the journey. The insurer decides what is the most appropriate intervention. It is up to him to determine who can best be helped in what situation. Can the Guarantee Fund include costs to travellers for its intervention? The refund for the insurer to the consumer must be complete, i.e., the total amount of the travel paid or the total price of the services not provided. The regulations explicitly state that no damage or interest, no deductible, nor costs may be charged to the traveller for the settlement of the claim. The costs of repatriation and temporary accommodation in anticipation of such repatriation are also borne entirely by the insurer. Finally, it should be noted that the insurer, in this case the Travel Guarantee Fund, cannot require any unnecessary documentation, proof or declaration. They also asked what the Guarantee Fund is not doing. The Guarantee Fund does not have a legal mandate to assist travellers if they have a direct dispute with the service provider, for example with the hotelier. That is why we have underlined this. I understand the situation you have put forward very well. Sit in a hotel where the hotelier refuses to help you unless you pay. Actually, that's really not done. Legally, the Guarantee Fund does not cover such a situation. Additional costs which may be incurred by the traveller shall not be covered by the Guarantee Fund. We point this out so that everyone knows what is and is not covered by the Guarantee Fund today. The insurer does not therefore intervene in the costs incurred or incurred by the traveller outside the travel contract, nor in the case where the stranded traveller himself concludes a contract with a transport company to return to Belgium outside the insurer. For example, anyone who wishes to return to Belgium as soon as possible and does so outside the scheme must know that this practice is not covered by the Guarantee Fund. Has the Guarantee Fund taken any preparatory measures? In my view, an insurer faced with a claim for damages can only act at the time when the action for damages is effective. For example, action for the necessary repatriation can only be taken when it is known where the travellers have been effectively stranded and in what numbers they have been stranded. However, I assume that in the present case the insurer is not confronted with a claim for damages in the Guarantee Fund and therefore has a roadmap on this matter. I also referred to the figures earlier. The general manager of the Guarantee Fund has confirmed that his organisation has been closely following Thomas Cook's file all year round. I repeat, however, that the whole consumer protection mechanism will only enter into force in the event of an effective injury, which has been the case since Tuesday morning. It has been asked whether the Guarantee Fund has sufficient resources to deal with the damage in question. As I have said, it is about very much money and very many travellers. It is not the first time that the Guarantee Fund has been called upon to fulfil its obligations of insurer in the event of financial inability of a travel company. However, interventions in the past were not as large as they are today. I repeat that in the past it was 24,000 passengers who helped the fund and between EUR 9 and 10 million. It is clear that the incident with Thomas Cook for the fund is a very serious incident. It is also of an unseen size when we know that it is 13,400 passengers. The question arises as to whether the Guarantee Fund has sufficient resources to deal with this damage. It was also asked whether it had the necessary financial resources. The general manager of the Guarantee Fund has replied to our question that there are sufficient resources. In the annual accounts for 2018, we see that the Guarantee Fund had technical provisions of almost €17.5 million. In addition, according to the general manager of the Guarantee Fund, Thomas Cook has ample bank guarantees that should be available on first request. The total damage caused by Thomas Cook's financial inability is estimated by the Guarantee Fund at between EUR 20 and 25 million. The Guarantee Fund Travel is also reassurance itself; that is not insignificant to know. With these figures, the reimbursement and/or repatriation of passengers should not pose any problems. According to the information Thomas Cook has provided me, it concerns the 13,400 people who are abroad. In addition, according to the information provided by the Guarantee Fund, there are up to 70,000 package travels which should have been carried out this year but which cannot therefore be carried out. The number of package tours with departure date in 2020 is not yet visible. So there are 13,400 people who were on holiday yesterday and 70,000 people who had booked a trip this year but could not allow their holidays to continue under these circumstances. For them, the Guarantee Fund will enter into force. Further questions were asked about the impact on employment. It is clear that Thomas Cook is also in a precarious situation in Belgium. It is too early today to analyse the possible consequences for workers. I have just referred to the legislation and indicated what can be done and how, where appropriate, recourse can be made to the Closing of Enterprises Fund. The latest state of play is that the application of the WCO is requested from the company court for the retail branch, i.e. travel agents. Most people work there, too. In the meantime, the management is negotiating with potential purchasers. For the activity as a tour operator, bankruptcy would be filed, and that has actually happened this morning. The staff is made up of around 600 people, 75 of whom could lose their jobs if they cannot be offered a perspective. Contacts with management and trade unions show that wages for the month of September were paid for workers employed in retail activities. The employment contracts for these workers are therefore in fact being implemented at the moment. Should there be bankruptcy of tour operators at any given time, the usual rules and the corresponding protection apply to workers. In the event of collective redundancies, the Renault Act, including an information and consultation procedure, must be respected. As I have already said, the Closing of Enterprises Fund also guarantees that employees affected by the closure of the company will be reimbursed up to a maximum of EUR 25,000. Any reorientation of workers may be necessary, but this particular aspect concerns regional competence. We have been asked where the travellers can go for information. As in many other areas of consumer protection, the FPS Economy provides that information through its website. The section on the protection of the traveller in relation to package travel was updated on that website yesterday. Also through social media, the FPS has referred consumers to appropriate information channels, including the contact number set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Also through the website of the Guarantee Fund, under the heading News, Thomas Cook's customers are further supervised. Finally, Thomas Cook also provides information through his own website. There is no single point of contact. The disabled traveller must address the organisation responsible for guaranteeing the financial inability of a travel company. If the traveller has booked with a foreign company, he will therefore have to address himself to the guarantor of that foreign company for the exercise of his rights. In the event of a contract being concluded, travellers should be given the information of the company guaranteeing insolvency. In this way, he has the standard information that is useful to establish the necessary contacts when he is stranded abroad or when his travel company itself is no longer accessible due to a financial inability. It was asked whether Thomas Cook Belgium will remain operational. Yesterday there was more clarity about the future of Thomas Cook Belgium. It is, of course, up to a company to decide what the possibilities are. That is not the role of a minister. As a minister, I do not have any levers to act in this area. Tour operators shall cease their activities. The bankruptcy of the companies concerned, Thomas Cook Belgium and Thomas Cook Retail, has been applied for. The retail business, the sale of package travel to travellers, is covered by Thomas Cook Retail Belgium and a request for protection against creditors is submitted to the company's court in application of the WCO. We shall see what the result will be. In the next few days, Thomas Cook will have to submit a plan to the judge. Only then will there be more clarity about the future. As a result of the bankruptcy requested for the tour operators, according to the information I received from the company, 75 out of 600 staff are involved, the traveller purchasing a separate travel service is also protected from bankruptcy. That remark was made here too. The 2015 European Directive imposes an obligation on Member States to ensure that travellers booking a package or a linked travel arrangement are protected from the consequences of a financial inability of the travel organisation or the retailer. In our national legislation we have gone one step further: the traveller also enjoys this protection when selling individual travel services by a travel organisation or by a retailer, if acting as an intermediary. In practice, the traveller will often receive his transport title or ticket immediately upon purchase and will thus be able to enjoy the transport, even if there is a situation of financial inability with the tour operator. When booking directly from an airline or from a hotel, the traveller will not be able to benefit from that protection. Can a traveller be obliged to reimburse a travel service provider himself? There are several stories circulating from travellers to whom hoteliers ask or demand the payment. We have just discussed this. There is no contractual link between the service provider, e.g. the hotelier, and the traveler who has booked a package journey through a tour operator. It is therefore clear that he cannot be directly addressed by that service provider. So my advice is very clear: don't pay anything. We can give the impression that none of this can harm us, but if we do so, we will no longer be able to rely on it. If, because of financial inability of the tour operator, a hotelier holds passengers against their will or confiscates their personal belongings, this is also referred to as unlawful acts. These actions have a clear legal qualification. In the meantime, the Guarantee Fund has delivered a letter to the FPS Foreign Affairs in which it undertakes to reimburse foreign hoteliers for the costs incurred by travellers currently staying there. It is important that this letter is delivered to the Foreign Office. I assume that he will also be handed over to the various diplomatic posts so that the hoteliers know that they will be reimbursed by the Guarantee Fund. I have already replied to the question of whether the Guarantee Fund should be temporarily strengthened. Of course, with its limited staff, the Guarantee Fund cannot handle this alone. It will have to appeal to third parties. That is why the Guarantee Fund has asked the sector organisations concerned about the possibilities for strengthening. Tomorrow, my cabinet will consult with the Guarantee Fund to discuss this aspect further. As I said earlier, the Guarantee Fund has given absolute priority to the repatriation of travellers from abroad. That seems to me to be the right thing to do. Given the extent of the injury, the repayment will not be possible in the short term. Of course, every effort will be made to deal with the dossiers as quickly as possible. I can't possibly put a deadline on that right now. First, repatriations must be carried out, then further file-handling. The question has been asked whether State aid has been granted to Thomas Cook. That's a regional issue. I can't answer that. As far as we know, nothing has happened in federal terms, but regional aid must be answered by the regional authorities. The question has been asked how much Thomas Cook has contributed annually to the Guarantee Fund Travel. Last year there was a contribution of EUR 1,193.752 to gross premiums. I do not have figures, broken down by Member. These are general figures. We do not have a breakdown of the figures per travel operator. How long will travellers have to wait for reimbursement? The absolute priority now is repatriation. In view of the extent of the damage, the reimbursement will only take place in second order. I cannot put a deadline on that at the moment. We will, of course, discuss this with the representatives of the Guarantee Fund tomorrow. Regarding the impact on Brussels Airlines, Thomas Cook was an important partner of Brussels Airlines. There will of course be consequences. The first consequence is that no flights are being organised anymore and Brussels Airlines must now see for itself what it will do with the places reserved for Thomas Cook. How will the company deal with that? We have contacts with Brussels Airlines to make a correct assessment. Can we lay down rules for payments to hoteliers? This is regulated by European law and is done in accordance with normal contract law. I believe, Mr President, that I have answered the questions that have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u22	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. You have been able to answer a lot of questions in the short term. We have almost received a course in travel rights today. For the replies, the speakers will be given the same order as for the question, but I will be strict. Every speaker gets a maximum of two minutes. If questions have not been answered, then we can certainly return to them. However, I would ask you to keep to the time. You have the floor first, Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Everyone agrees with you that it is primarily important, in the first instance and in the short term, for the people who are abroad to be able to go home. After that, people have to be compensated. Everyone has noticed that the information was chaotic and late. In the Netherlands the ball was played shorter. Perhaps we should consider how to learn from it. Among other things, reference was made to the website of the FPS Economy, but it may need to be made more effervescent, especially in such cases. This isn't a small matter. For example, people should be able to find the necessary information quickly via a button. I also refer to the website of the Dutch equivalent of the Guarantee Fund Travel, which is more user-friendly. For example, there is a clear link: "submit your complaint." Perhaps we should look at whether we can follow that example. You have indeed informed consumers that the costs incurred on the spot will not be reimbursed. That is the case in the Netherlands. You also referred to the letter sent by the State Department. That information is certainly not an unnecessary luxury. It is said that the Guarantee Fund will pay, but many hoteliers do not trust that system. Perhaps that information should be given proactively in the future. We must also look at the consequences of bankruptcy. You said yourself that this is a very large amount of money. The Guarantee Fund itself has been re-insured. We hope that this will not affect the premiums that consumers will have to pay in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u24	Minister, it is very important that the people who are still abroad and the 70,000 people who have booked another trip for this year are properly informed. I understand that there is a lot of work going on in the Guarantee Fund, but a good choice has been made by focusing first on repatriations and then talking to the other people as well as possible. We can all underline that. It is also reassuring that there is sufficient financial resources in the Guarantee Fund. With regard to the additional capacity, the sector organisation should be considered in the first instance. That's her job. I'm glad there's a meeting tomorrow. I am sure that you will put that on the table and that you will consider how this temporary capacity can be filled in as soon as possible. The impact on the other companies is also a concern for me. It must not become a domino in the travel sector. It is not just about Brussels Airlines in our country, but also about the poignant stories from Turkey and Crete, where they mainly work with Thomas Cook. If the hotels there are no longer paid, it will have an impact at European level. Is this being discussed at European level, with your colleagues from other countries? Can measures be taken to this end? It is also important to make an evaluation when everything is done. If we can make any further changes to the Guarantee Fund, we in Parliament must join forces so that we can make it even better. We already have very strong protection with the Guarantee Fund, but, of course, if we can still improve, we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that many groups are well protected. However, it is striking that there is very little ambition to further protect the hostage traveller. You say that the Guarantee Fund cannot intervene in this. I understand that a passenger booking a flight back on his own initiative cannot be reimbursed, but it may have to be communicated quickly and clearly to travellers. However, I do not understand why the government does not intervene when travellers are being held hostage by the hotel and put under pressure to pay the costs they have already paid. You have made it clear that the Guarantee Fund cannot intervene legally, but as Minister for Consumer Protection, among other things, you are competent to help those people. I think it is a great punishment that very little is being said about this. I would urge you to accept your responsibility, to cover the additional costs and, if necessary, to take steps to recover those costs from hotel operators. You could at least accompany the travellers in getting the costs back. You won't have a meeting with the Guarantee Fund until tomorrow. It would be good if you could come back to this committee very quickly to say more about this. I will certainly put a question to that effect. It seems to me to be a good thing that, when the calm comes back a bit, this committee meets again to discuss with the unions, Test Purchase and the company itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u26	Minister, I would like to thank you for your long, detailed answer. It was important, not least for the people concerned, but also for the politicians we are. I would like to respond to two aspects of your answer. First of all, you have confirmed that 13,400 people are now abroad and must return to Belgium. In my view, information is a key element. One can see the reaction of citizens who suffer from the lack of information on websites, by mail or by travel agencies. I hear that the Fund does not intervene when hoteliers are unscrupulous or engage in illegal actions such as blackmail, tourist racket, asking them for more money, taking full shame from the situation. In my view, this point should be put on the table. Consideration should be given to extending the scope of the Fund so that it can cover victims of such acts, especially since the hoteliers concerned are commercial partners of travel agencies. It is important to discuss this issue in discussions with the Guarantee Fund. We ask that tourists who are scammed by hoteliers, very unscrupulous service providers, can also be covered. As far as employment is concerned, not all answers can be given at this stage, which I can understand. However, we are concerned about this issue, which is why we will be following the situation very closely. Like others, this is about a changing sector. Some have noted the practices of Thomas Cook's mother house that can really be questioned. In any event, our political responsibility is to ensure that these workers are not left behind, whether in terms of accompaniment or retraining. In conclusion, we will follow this matter and come back to you in this committee or in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that priority must be given to the repatriation of the people who are currently abroad, but if you are talking to the Guarantee Fund tomorrow, try to make a smooth payment so that people do not have to wait months or years for the final reimbursement of their journey. For the rest, I once again regret the late communication from our country, which has created a great deal of chaos and uncertainty among travellers abroad. That clarity has been too long overdue. Finally, I do not think I have been given an answer to my question as to which guarantee fund Belgian travellers who have booked a trip should call on, for example, Neckermann Netherlands. Many travellers have booked their trip through the Netherlands or Germany, which is also covered by Thomas Cook, so there is currently uncertainty as to where to file a file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It makes me incredibly angry to hear the statements here and to witness a hallucinating situation. More than 22,000 people worldwide are losing their jobs and more than 600,000 passengers are in trouble, while we know that five of Thomas Cook's top players raised over 53 million in wages and bonuses between 2012 and 2018. The chairman of the board in Belgium, Mr Meysman, has an annual wage of 311,000 euros while the people who are now being dismissed will have to do it with a ceiling of 25,000 euros. They will therefore not receive a full cancellation fee by means of this ceiling. The winners in this story are the hedge funds that speculated on bankruptcy and that one day have earned more than 227 million euros. The unions also want to have a say in what is happening. Trade unions had for a long time been concerned that debt was high and that something had to be done. There is too little involvement for trade unions to be able to identify when things are bad. Finally, Mr Beke, I did not receive an answer to my question on state aid. There has been a tax shift in which the companies received benefits to create employment. In this file, hundreds of employees will lose their jobs. What happens to the money the company got through the tax shift?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u29	Minister, thank you for the moment of the situation that you have delivered to us. Like some colleagues, I can deplore one or the other failure in the communication, but this sometimes happens in a crisis of such magnitude. In any case, you cannot be suspected of a lack of proactivity. There are two components to this file. For the social aspect, you confirm the loss of 75 jobs. I hope that the Regions will mobilise themselves in the activation of conversion cells when bankruptcy is definitively committed. For the 500 workers, uncertainty remains. I feel you somewhat helpless and kept in expectation, just like we do. Our thoughts accompany these people, of course, especially since the hours and days to come will seem to them very long. We understand that the continuation of the events will depend on the plan to be submitted to the judges by Thomas Cook Belgium. With regard to the "travellers" component, it seems to me that repatriation is a very healthy priority. For the rest, I hope that the Travel Guarantee Fund will soon repay the customers. I also took one of your advice, minister: if abuses were to be committed by service providers, it is important that travellers pay nothing. Finally, we had the chance to have a relatively long presentation, thanks to which we were able to see the complexity of the file. We can try to put ourselves in the place of these travelers, who are sometimes thousands of kilometres away. The information is not easy to understand. That is why you must not hesitate to communicate. You have indicated that information was on the FPS Economy website, but that does not seem sufficient to me. It is indeed necessary to reassure those concerned, who are still in a state of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u30	Minister, thank you for your relatively precise answers. I'll be working on the information very quickly. I actually just went to the SPF Economy website. It is not clear enough for completely panicked travellers who do not know what is happening and who consult with it. In my view, we should add a Thomas Cook tab and practical-practical information. I invite you to remedy this very quickly to reassure travellers who are still blocked. You're referring to the FPS Foreign Affairs and its emergency number. You also told us about the mail that was sent to embassies to inform that service providers would be well paid, which should reassure hoteliers. In the meantime, how can we react? I really put myself in the place of the traveller in swimsuit who can no longer access his hotel room. What does it do if the hotelier does not have the right information? I don't know how he'll react, but I'm afraid that this traveller will resume a flight that will ultimately not be reimbursed. Indeed, you explained well that if the traveller took an initiative outside of the Travel Guarantee Fund, it would not be taken care of. To return to employment, I understand that there is still a lot of uncertainty and that we do not yet have all the answers. Even for the 75 jobs that were threatened yesterday, dismissals have not yet been announced. Good! What about tomorrow? Mr President, I can only invite you to convene a joint Committee on Economic and Social Affairs very quickly to monitor the progress of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u31	Of course, Minister, many questions remain, perhaps even within yourself. The most important thing for me is that we do not put everything together and that we provide clear information about the hotels: the catalogue allows us to list which hotels have already been paid for which trips and then it is clear that travellers cannot be blackmailed. There should also be a directive from Europe saying that hotels that have already been paid should not be blackmailed against travellers. Otherwise, I'd like to wait for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u32	Minister, I would like to come back to the Guarantee Fund Travel. That is indeed a sector initiative and a private insurance, but the rules of the game are laid down by us. In the meantime, the law of 1994 has been repealed by the law of 2017 and it is the Royal Decree of 2018 that lays down the rules of the game. We can only conclude that the legislation is very limited and I believe that the sector should achieve results. If there is a sectoral scheme, then the sector should also be able to achieve results. I hope that you will give the direction of that tomorrow in your conversation with the Travel Guarantee Fund. We must dare to look critically at the costs that are or are not reimbursed and map them. I think you should ask for the costs to be listed tomorrow so that we can anticipate for the next time. We must be critical of the fact that it is only about package travel. Should we not go to enlargement in this area? Timing remains a big issue for me, too. You have repeated the figures twice: EUR 10 million was paid out over 24 years. Now 20 million euros will have to be paid in one year. It is a good thing that the sector is making a commitment in this area to assist, but I also think that we should have the courage to get on the road if it is necessary: desperate times call for desperate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u33	I'm joining my colleague Ecolo. I understand that the Fund does not cover the additional costs of scammed tourists. But can't you take other measures to cover the costs of these people who are victims of unscrupulous hoteliers? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u34	Mr Minister, are there still a number of very punctual questions to which you would like to answer, although not to reopen the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u35	Mr President, I will be very brief. It is important that hoteliers abroad are well and quickly informed. That is why the letter delivered by the Guarantee Fund to Foreign Affairs is important. The Foreign Office itself has opened a crisis centre and has given instructions to the embassies concerned to provide the necessary information. That's one thing. Those concerned must be properly informed on the spot so that the rightful hoteliers, many hoteliers, are also aware of the fact that the file is properly arranged and organized. I understand the question as to why possible additional costs are not covered. The answer is that, firstly, the issue is not included in our legislation today. We can look at this in an evaluation. However, there may be a very perverse effect, whereby hoteliers feel that they can ask what they want without restriction and without restriction, which means that we will have to look for other mechanisms. Colleagues, the Guarantee Fund itself is quite unique, because it was established together with the sectors for such situations. It does not exist in many other economic sectors. It is important that it exists, that we have refined its operation in 2017 and that we can evaluate it if necessary after the current case. I have answered the question about state aid. The tax shift cannot be defined as State aid. The tax shift means that fewer employers' and employees' contributions have been paid to create jobs. The figures also show that jobs have been created. However, it is not a question of subsidies. State aid concerns funds, subsidies and funds given to the parties concerned. That's a different angle from what you brought up here. The comment about the website of the FPS Economy is correct. We are also taking the initiative to make the most up-to-date information available in a comprehensive manner. As far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, if someone has booked a trip through a foreign organisation, the guarantee scheme of the country or Member State concerned applies. There is the European directive in this context, which we have transposed into Belgian law with the Guarantee Fund. Other countries organise the protection of the traveller in a different way or have their own guarantee fund. Those who have booked through a foreign organisation must therefore check which guarantee scheme is applicable in the country concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic014x.u36	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude our exchange of views here. If there are any further questions, they can be tabled as an oral question.
