ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u1	Minister, during the process of forming the new government, the MRAX sent its memorandum to informants and elected officials in order to obtain concrete measures to combat racism, inequality in Belgium and improve access to fundamental rights for all. For many years, civil society – of which the MRAX is a member – has been sounding alarms at the use of ethnic profiling by the police. These are "the use by the police, without objective and reasonable justification, of grounds such as race, colour, language, religion, nationality or national or ethnic origin in monitoring, surveillance or investigation activities." This growing concern within the field associations has been echoed in the recommendations made to the Belgian State by the UN Human Rights Council. Thus, our country has agreed, both at the local, regional and federal levels, to ensure effective coordination of measures taken to monitor the prevalence of illegal ethnic profiling and racism, particularly in view of the current terrorist threat to the country. The State has also undertaken to amend "the training of police officers to raise awareness of the problem of racial profiling." Minister, do you share the conclusions and recommendations of the MRAX Memorandum? If so, what steps do you intend to take to address the issues raised by this memorandum? Otherwise, what is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u2	Dear colleague, the federal police do not make ethnic profiling. As part of its recurrent operation, the prohibition of ethnic profiling is addressed during the "diversity" training. Optional training of the "behaviour detection" type – the BDO – where predictive profiling techniques are taught in police schools, is offered as continuing training. Within the Directorate of Aviation Police (LPA), this training is resumed in a "staff" training course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u3	Minister, your position is clear, there is no ethnic profiling and you do not want to make it. Is that right, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u4	I answered you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u5	Mr Minister, I come back to a subject that we both know well: the financing of local police areas. As you know, this funding weighs heavily on the finances of the municipalities. It is based on both communal endowments and federal endowments. However, municipal allocations account for about 60 per cent of this funding, but there are significant disparities. All the chiefs of corps are unanimous in calling the alarm: a refinancing of the local police is an absolute necessity. In the days of your predecessor, Jan Jambon, the mayors of the Brussels Region had told him of the difficulties faced by the Brussels communes in particular. Various findings have been made. He had entrusted a working group with the task of objecting to the financial situation of the six police and floor areas on a change in the distribution of the federal police on Belgian territory, ensuring a greater presence in the major cities and maintaining level 3 of the terrorist threat. Proposals with results had been submitted by this group. Since then, water has sunk under bridges and other realities have been part of the political agenda. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. What is the outcome of the initiatives undertaken? Have you been aware of the results? If so, what are your comments? Can the analysis of these results initiate new avenues of solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u6	Funding for police areas is based on the KUL standard, which is almost twenty years old. This has not changed with the socio-demographic evolution of the police areas and the institutional evolution. This is why a number of federal compensatory allocations have emerged, including the EUR 55 million European Summit Fund for Police Areas in Brussels. The results of the working group you mention have not been achieved. Meanwhile, the level of threat has been re-established at Level 2 and several measures – such as the Canal Plan – have emerged. It is therefore up to the next government to assess the refinancing of the local and federal police. And as I have said on several occasions, I believe that the creation of a single police zone in Brussels will also help to objectiveize the financial situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u7	Mr President, I understand that we are in a routine business, in an interim situation, but that a new government will obviously have to respond to it. You have not received the conclusions, I hear it, but my group does not agree with your last sentence, which is to give an answer which seems to us simple, if not simplistic. In reality, the problem is a problem of funding but not of organizing the police, since the Antwerp police are organized on a single area and the results are not convincing, if not even worse. I therefore thank you for the elements of the answer. We will come back once the situation at the federal level is clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u8	It will be very interesting to see what will be said by the negotiators of the PS and the N-VA, who are apparently in a pre-training phase. As far as I know, this is one of the first points on the agenda: "the unification of police zones in Brussels."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u9	I have never heard of all this because it is not about training but about pre-training.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u10	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u11	I see you're very close to the pre-formers. We talk to you regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u12	I'm close to everyone, even you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u13	I have not been told or explained such things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u14	Mr.President, Minister, I have read the 2018 Annual Report: Reconnecting with Human Rights, prepared by Unia, Interfederal Centre for Equality of Chances.One of the pages includes a chapter on the implementation of Circular COL 13/2013. Indeed, the joint circular COL 13/2013 of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior and the College of Attorneys General at the Courts of Appeal aims to standardize the research and prosecution policies concerning violations of the laws and decrees "anti-discrimination", "gender" and "anti-racism", including the phenomenon of negationism. Unia also reiterated in 2018 the importance of designating, training and listing reference officers in the police services. The 2016-2019 National Security Plan incorporates this provision and calls on local police areas that have not yet designated reference officials to do so, as well as to follow the training organized by Unia in this area. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you been aware of the recommendations of this report? If so, what are your comments? Can the analysis of these recommendations initiate new avenues of work? Are you in favour of such initiatives? Are you considering taking action on certain proposals? What tools are in place and what means are available to the federal police for harmonized coding of hate crimes and discrimination, on the basis of the minutes drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u15	Mr President, Mr Kir, the Federal Police has read the 2018 Annual Report of Unia. The Federal Police Diversity Cell was also present at its presentation on June 24, 2019. Unia's recommendations are being reviewed by the federal police and could lead to new avenues of work. In addition to these recommendations, the federal police also comply with the obligations set out in Circular COL13/2013 and the necessary measures have been taken to this end. With regard to the recommendation to appoint a reference police officer in all front line services of the Federal Police, the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police has designated and trained a reference police officer in each department in 2019. A digital network is also planned via the Yammer platform, where local police and federal police reference officers can communicate with each other in order to exchange best practices and experience. With regard to the fight against discrimination, as provided for in the National Security Plan 2016-2019, it should be noted that the Federal Police has prepared an evaluation report assessing the objectives of this programme. In the meantime, this document has been forwarded to the members of the Federal Police Council for consideration. The drafting of the minutes by the police has two objectives: on the one hand, the information of the public prosecutor's office and, on the other, the feeding of the general national data bank. When drawing up a report using a mandatory computer-based report-writing system, the police officer is required to use national reference tables in order to write the recorded facts in the best and standardized manner. The minutes on the basis of the reference tables shall be recorded in these structured fields and shall be transmitted, after quality control, to the general national database, in order to make them available to all police officers who will have access to them according to their need for information. The reference tables used for the drafting of the minutes are constantly adapted in the light of developments in the legislation and in the light of the new operational needs of police officers, for example following the emergence of a new modus operandi.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u16	Minister, thank you for this comprehensive response that reflects the importance of the work done at the police level. I note that the recommendations have been taken into account. I will come back at the beginning of the year to have the overall assessment of 2019, but I am satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u17	Mr President, Minister, an article from La Dernière Peuille du 10 juillet told us that a baby who had been forgotten in a car by extreme heat had died in France. Indeed, he had been forgotten for more than two hours, on Sunday, July 7, in front of the family home. Suffering from severe dehydration, the child had been transported to the hospital in Orléans as a matter of urgency, with a vital prognosis committed. At home, abandoning or leaving your child in a car is a criminal offence that is unfortunately not uncommon. Even if the child does not suffer the consequences, this dangerous behaviour has been punishable by administrative punishment for several years. This is particularly the case in the police area where my municipality is present, namely the Brussels Nord area (Schaerbeek, Evere, Saint-Josse). Is this issue being addressed by the Minister's strategic unit? Are figures on this phenomenon available? Does the Minister see the value of attracting more public attention, including through an information and awareness campaign, to reduce the number of accidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u18	Dear colleague, the National General Data Bank is a police database in which the facts emanating from the minutes resulting from the judicial and administrative police missions are recorded. With regard to the data on reports of children left alone in a car, it is necessary to define the problem on the basis of facts recorded by the police, for the abandonment of children or vulnerable persons (article 423 of the Criminal Code) or the abandonment of children in need (article 424); this in combination with the destination of their "car" or vehicle. Referring to the closing of the database of 26 April 2019, no facts meeting the mentioned criteria were recorded for the years 2017 and 2018. The problem is therefore being addressed, but given the figures cited by the Federal Police, a specific information and awareness campaign is not considered necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u19	Minister, on 7 June, the federal police and local police organized a new "alcohol-free weekend driving" from Friday evening to Monday morning. These additional controls were carried out throughout the country to deter drivers from driving under the influence of alcohol or even drugs. According to a new European survey conducted by the Vias Institute, almost one in three Belgians (30%) admits to driving in the past month after drinking alcohol. This places our country on the third step of the European podium, after Switzerland and Portugal. This is therefore not a gratifying observation. However, controls are frequent. One in four Belgian drivers (24%) reported having had a blood alcohol test last year. This is more than the European average of 18%. Minister, what is the record of this alcohol-free weekend driving? What is your analysis of these statistics from the Vias Institute? What conclusions do you draw? What specific measures have been taken by the police in recent years to combat driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs? What are the budgets allocated to this type of initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u20	Mr. Kir, the non-alcoholic driving weekend began on Friday, June 7, at 6:00 p.m. and ended on Monday, 10 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. Nationally, 37,013 drivers were tested for blood alcohol. As a result, 29,608 pre-tests—samplings—were negative. The same applies to 6,787 breath tests – called safe. In contrast, 269 breath tests (0.73%) resulted in an alert, while 349 others (0.64%) were positive. It also appears that 1.67% of the controlled motorists were driving under the influence of alcohol. In addition, 110 salivary tests were imposed, while 154 driving licences were withdrawn for driving under the influence of alcohol and 61 for driving under the influence of drugs. The Vias study shows that driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs remains a focus in the fight for road safety. It should be noted that there are still dozens of road victims who succumb to driving under influence every year. Initiatives such as BOB campaigns and alcohol-free weekends are absolutely necessary to induce a change of behaviour among drivers. Driving under influence continues to be an important priority of the federal police and highway police zonal security plans. For some time now, we have seen that police controls are frequently shared over the media and social networks. Given the times and places at risk, shorter control devices provide a response to maintain the risk of being controlled sufficiently high. With regard to drug-influenced driving, the introduction of the salivary collector is a considerable simplification of the detection procedure. As the capacity invested by police areas is not known, it is impossible to determine the costs of this operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u21	I don't have any additional questions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u22	Mr President, the Belgian press in June was talking about this, Mr Minister, only one in three Belgians feel safe on the Internet, according to a national study commissioned by SpotIT, which specializes in cybersecurity. The younger generation also scores less well than the older generation on cybercrime knowledge. She feels less secure online than her elders, which is quite surprising. Indeed, threats on the Internet are numerous and frighten 29% of 18-34 year olds, among the 1,048 Belgians interviewed in April via an online form. For those over the age of 65, this percentage is reduced to 24%. In addition to the sense of security on the Web, the study looked at the protection measures and the knowledge of Internet users about cybercrime. According to Steven Vynckier, Director of SpotIT, these results are alarming because cybersecurity is one of the most pressing challenges facing authorities, schools, employers and individuals to address the digital shift. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. I imagine you took note of that information? If so, how do you analyze this situation? What steps do you intend to take to address these challenges?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u23	Mr. Chairman, in order to obtain Mr. Kir's helpful answers to your question, I invite you also to address the Prime Minister because the cybersecurity centre, Cyber Security Belgium, is within his competence. We can only refer to the 2018 Security Monitor, which was published in June of this year. Figures on victimization and the willingness to denounce aggression, scams and crime via the Internet are published. These figures show that young people between the ages of 15 and 24 are relatively often victims of intimidation, assault and harassment. This may explain why young people, according to the survey to which you refer, feel less secure on the Internet. The Internet scam seems to occur most often among the 35-49 age group. Although young people are most often subjected to intimidation, assault and harassment via the Internet, they are the least likely to complain about this to the police. But as I explained at the beginning of my answer, this matter falls entirely within the prime minister's purview.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u24	Of course, I must thank you for the answers you provided to me, and I will not fail to question the Prime Minister in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u25	We'll have to hurry. [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u26	He's still here for a few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u27	Minister, in the 2019 edition of his Annual Report Migration in Numbers and Rights, Myria, the Federal Centre for Migration, had extracted a series of key recommendations from her recent work and reports. Among these are the criminal approach of smugglers. Myria noted that the police, magistrates and inspection services have human and technical resources to combat human trafficking more effectively, in order to develop, for example, Internet research and social networks. In addition, the Centre noted, in the same vein, that front-line services should also be better trained to detect victims of human trafficking, especially when they are minors. Have we considered Myria's recommendations? What measures are you going to adopt with your colleague in charge of justice in the criminal approach to trafficking in human beings, knowing that financial bilge and the dismantling of international networks of smugglers must also be a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u28	Mr Kir, as a preamble to my reply, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Myria published its 2019 Migration in Figures and Rights report with ten recommendations in May 2019. On May 26, the federal election was held and your question was asked in July 2019. To the extent that the implementation of Myria's recommendations concerns a new policy, the government in day-to-day affairs is not competent. The outgoing government does not have the power to develop new policies. With regard to trafficking in human beings and thus not trafficking in human beings, the development between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior has already taken place during the preparation of the 2016-2019 comprehensive security framework note, which is still in force, as well as the national security plan for the same years 2016-2019, and the national action plan of the Interdepartmental Coordination Unit for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u29	I think the minister has been clear. I thank him for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you this question in your capacity as guardian of the FANC. At the end of June 2015, the Belgian legislator extended the industrial electricity production at the nuclear power plant Objective 1 by 10 years and also postponed the date on which industrial electricity production in the central target 2 would end with almost ten years. Several associations, including environmental associations, have brought an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court. The reason for this is that the extension was decided on without the environmental impact assessment being carried out and without the participation procedure being followed. The Constitutional Court referred a question to the European Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling in order to ascertain whether environmental impact assessments should be carried out when a law extending the period of production by nuclear power plants is adopted. The European Court ruled in its judgment of 29 July 2019 that the Belgian law extending the lifetime of the nuclear power plants Objective 1 and Objective 2 was adopted without the required prior environmental impact assessments being carried out. The European Court considers that the environmental impact directive has been poorly applied. Your predecessor, Mr Jambon, has already wrestled with this dossier. It has given rise to many debates in Parliament. I am somewhat unclear about the FANC's composition throughout the dossier. Maybe you'll tell me that I'm taking old cows out of the canal. However, in yesterday's plenary sitting in the Chamber we discussed a possible extension of the opening time of the nuclear power stations, to be decided by a next federal government in full power. I believe that this debate will then be completely re-examined. In that sense, my question has topical value.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u31	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, you are asking a very relevant question...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u33	... on a very relevant subject, on which I would like to explain a few things. If I confine myself to the substance of your question, I can only say that the judgment of the European Court of Justice must be interpreted by the Belgian court where the case to which you referred is pending. Neither the Federal Nuclear Control Agency nor myself should comment on current legal procedures, as you know. Of course, on other matters relating to this dossier and which do not fall within the scope of the judicial system, you can always submit questions, which I will certainly answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u34	Mr President, Minister, the FANC has indeed been involved in this dossier as an advisory body. Depending on the ruling of the Constitutional Court, the FANC will be re-involved in this dossier. I hope, by the way, that nuclear production in this country will be extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u35	Mrs Pass has asked her question No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Debates of the European Parliament 55000191 C) by Mrs Jadin and No 55000191 C) by Mrs Jadin and others: Mr Senesael's 55000519C was also postponed. Question No 24, by Mr De Gucht (H-l 55000200C, 55000201C and 55000202C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 55000212C by Mrs Thibaut is postponed to her question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Jadin's 55000241C and 55000242C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u36	Mr. Secretary, firefighters had a hard time in August. At the end of August a firefighter was knocked out a tooth and a few days later a firefighter was pounded. Figures show that in our country more than two hundred P.V.s are being drawn up every year for physical aggression against aid workers. The unions, and not just them, I think, are tired of asking for a political signal. The chairman of the Firefighters Association in Flanders also agrees that firefighters should increasingly take into account aggression. That is why I have the following questions. In which municipalities are most cases of aggression against emergency services identified? Is there a trend over recent years that such forms of aggression are increasing? How can the safety of emergency services be better ensured in interventions? Can the legislation in this area be adapted, in this case the more severe punishment of aggression against aid workers in order to better guarantee the safety of aid services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u37	I will answer the parts you have asked in your questions. In this respect, 241 facts were recorded in 2014. This figure subsequently decreased to 185 in 2015 and in 2016 and 2017 198 facts were recorded each time regarding voluntary beatings and/or injuries against staff of some public service. In 2018, this figure increased to 213 registrations. The High Training Board of the members of the public emergency services has approved a training programme aimed at providing firefighters with the necessary tools to teach them how to cope with situations of aggression, for example by teaching them preventive and defensive techniques. This training can be organised by firefighters' schools at the end of this year at the request of the relief zones. The top 5 of the municipalities or cities where these facts are most committed are also the five largest cities in Belgium, notably Antwerp, Brussels, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is, of course, about the need to tackle every case against aid services strictly. I am glad that training is already provided. That is certainly a good start and a step in the right direction. But, of course, we must also dare to act repressively against people who act against aid services. There, too, I expect the trade unions to send out the necessary political signals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u39	Minister, during the topical debate in September 2018, it was about the recruitment of police personnel. The KPMG study on the optimisation of the current recruitment and selection processes was then discussed. That report states that there can be improvement in three main areas. The implementation of the improvement path is carried out according to a tight timetable. The new draft and the corresponding statutory texts were scheduled for the meeting of the negotiating committee at the end of September 2018. Meanwhile, fast tracks were also organized. All the tests, which last up to a year, were combined in one to two weeks. In the reform, more attention was also paid to the so-called morality studies. A list of convictions for certain facts which would automatically lead to the termination of the selection procedure would be used. Criteria have also been developed to provide more guidance in assessing the morality of a candidate. Minister, can you tell us to what extent staff are available for the execution of the selection and recruitment? How many people are working on it today? Can you explain the conclusions and recommendations of the KPMG study? What are the proposals in the new selection concept? What has actually happened to the optimisation process over the past year? What is the outcome of the discussions on the new concept and the corresponding statutory texts in the negotiating committee? How are the fast tracks evaluated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u40	Mr Vandenput, then Minister Jambon, my predecessor, asked for a review of the recruitment of the federal police in 2017-2018. Based on these results, it was decided to start an optimization process. This process has four major objectives: improving the quality of candidates, reducing their lead time, increasing their success rates and increasing their diversity. To achieve these objectives, work was carried out in 4 areas, in particular recruitment, selection, need assessment and an integrated HR policy. As a result, there is currently a design of selection concept in which there is a strong commitment to the involvement of the recruitment zone or service in the recruitment process. Secondly, the selection tests are being revised, with the main focus being on automated testing. Thirdly, a number of bottlenecks are anticipated, such as medical research and morality research, by starting them in the early stages of the selection process. Finally, the laureate of the generic selection procedure is placed in a yard reserve from which it can actively apply to zones or services. Once a laureate has been recruited by a zone or a service, he can start training. During training, close links with the zone or service of destination shall remain. In this context, I am thinking, among other things, of internship and workplace learning. During the past year, the concept was fully drawn up under the guidance of KPMG and the necessary preparatory steps were taken per domain. We are currently in the final stage of the trade-union negotiations. Once an agreement has been reached, the first adjustments, which do not require any statutory changes, will be made immediately. Since 2018 we have been working to strengthen the selection service, both in terms of instructors and in terms of support staff. Also in the coming years, when the new selection concept is fully operational, we will continue to monitor the need for additional recruitments. Pending negotiations with the trade unions, certain measures have already been taken to resolve urgent issues in the short term. A number of fast track procedures have been started. These are selection procedures in which the candidate can complete the full selection procedure at about two weeks. So much for my answer with operational solutions to the problem of recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. There is indeed a need to work in the four listed domains. I hope that the negotiating committee and the syndicates will join the story. If they're bothered by this, I really don't understand it anymore. Then we'll have to take other measures. It is now awaiting the approval of the negotiating committee and then we can get to work. You have said it to me and to my fellow Members on several occasions: a greater influx is much needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u42	Minister, the Ministerial Council of 22 June 2018 adopted a preliminary draft law on administrative enforcement. It provided for a sensitive increase in the enforcement powers of local authorities in the context of public order and at the same time created a legal basis to give the mayor powers in the fight against undermining crime. The operating licence was enshrined in the new municipal law and the closure powers were extended. Two new administrative coercive measures have also been added and the ban on places has been amended. On 29 March 2019, the Council of Ministers once again approved a preliminary draft law extending the powers of local authorities in the area of administrative enforcement and establishing the integrity assessment board for public administrations. It once again created a legal basis to give the mayor powers to prevent serious and organised crime. It had to enable municipalities to adopt a municipal police regulation after a prior risk analysis, which allowed them to submit exploits to an integrity investigation. The results of the integrity investigation could be used to deliver, suspend, withdraw or close a licence or not. It set up the Board of Integrity Assessment for Public Administrations. In this context, I have a number of questions. Can you explain in detail the measures that increased the enforcement powers of local authorities in the context of public order? What are the differences between the two preliminary drafts and why the amendments? How does the legal basis for giving the mayor powers in the fight against the undermining crime look concrete in both drafts? Is there a difference here? If so, what difference? Can you provide a detailed explanation to the integrity assessment board for public administrations? What is the current state of this draft? What happened after 29 March 2019? What further steps can you take within what time limit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u43	Mr Vandenput, in your last question you are talking about deadlines. Some deadlines need to be respected, so my answer may seem a little harsh compared to your extensive question. But I am very willing to come back to it in detail when there are new elements. The previous government has prepared a draft law on administrative enforcement. This was approved at the Ministerial Council on 22 June 2018. Among other things, the Council of State had commented on this and issued recommendations, which were taken into account by the government and resulted in a new adapted version of this draft law. It is this modified version, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March 2019, after which it was again submitted to the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority for its opinion. These opinions were recently received, including those of the Data Protection Units. It remains a priority for me to continue to deal with the draft law within the scope of a government in current cases, but first the opinions that have recently been delivered to us in the new text need to be truncated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your brief but very clear answer. Now we know where it is. The opinions are in and you will further elaborate the draft law. I am confident that this will be completed in the coming months so that we, as mayor, can work on this new legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u45	Minister, local police areas are financed through municipal and federal donations. The latter have their origins in the law on integrated police and a KB determines the criteria. Today, many mayors who are present here or are not here will also find that the data used to determine the criteria are no longer up-to-date. As early as 2001, the then Minister stated that this standard was not forever and would be evaluated and adapted if necessary. But it never came to that. The Commission to accompany police reform at local level already concluded in 2003 that a review of the funding mechanism of the police zones is necessary. The Committee also called for the financing mechanism to be anchored in a financing law. The Council of Ministers of 15 October 2004 formalized this, but that proposal was actually frozen and almost 15 years later, that funding law still does not apply. We believe it is time to develop a financing law with updated data and variable parameters. The budget should also be reviewed. In addition, the regional authorities regularly call on local police to enforce their initiatives, but they do not contribute to the financing of local police. We also believe that this should change. In that context, I have the following questions, Minister. Can you indicate the criteria in the 2001 list which are no longer up-to-date? What is the lack of transparency? What evolutions have taken place over the last 20 years, which means that the criteria no longer meet? Do you share our view that a review of the funding mechanism of the police zones is necessary, as is an anchoring in a financing law? What adjustments are needed? Do you confirm that the regional authorities call on the local police, but do not contribute to their funding? Then why are they appealing to it? Should they not be responsible for the financing? To what extent and how should that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u46	Mr Vandenput, the main key to the federal donations to the local police zones is the so-called KUL standard, with which virtually all local administrators have grown. The standard was drawn up in 1999 as part of the reform of police forces. The aim was to determine local police capacity for each municipality on the basis of objective and measurable indicators. In this context, 14 explanatory variables were taken into account and specific variables were added for the five major cities of the country, which I have already referred to in an earlier question, Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Liège and Charleroi, in order to take account of the specificity associated with the size of those cities. The KUL standard has not been updated or has not been updated so far. The revision of the KUL standard was not included in the coalition agreement of the Michael I government. Even though the KUL standard has not been updated so far, that does not mean that the federal funding of the local police would have stopped. For example, since the police reform, the federal government has introduced several additional dots and taken measures to respond to the needs and new realities of the police zones, so that all police zones can achieve equivalent basic police care, taking into account their specific characteristics. In addition, the federal basic donation, the additional federal donation and the social allowances are indexed annually. With the sixth state reform, the powers of the Regions have been substantially extended, including in the area of security and police policy. For example, a significant part of the spatial order and environment findings is carried out by the police. Nevertheless, there is no structural funding of the local police areas because of the regions. The local police areas are almost entirely financed by the federal government and the municipal authorities. However, it is for a government with full authority to take such important and comprehensive initiatives on a new financing law for local police, but, more importantly, to evaluate and extrapolate the KUL standard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u47	I agree with you, Minister, that a government must do a number of things, such as a review of the KUL standard and a review of funding, in full competence. Regardless of the composition of the next federal government, I believe that all parties should work to put such basic things that have been going on for some fifteen years, finally into a government agreement and then actually implement them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u48	Minister, since July 1st, the ANPR video surveillance device has been in operation. More than 1,000 cameras were distributed on the country's roads for a total amount of €3 million, with the aim of identifying vehicles in default, stolen or included in the police files. These cameras are also capable of sending a report in the event of a detected traffic offence. However, it is our responsibility that, due to the lack of staff to handle registered files, many of them are closed. Only four situations would attract the attention of police personnel: terrorist investigations, murder investigations, the offence of escaping from a serious accident and robbery. Minister, first of all, can you confirm this information? If so, can you give us the number of files of this type that have been closed and the number that has led to prosecutions? Are concrete solutions being explored to address this problem and, if so, what are they? Finally, are new acquisitions of ANPR cameras already scheduled? In the long run, how many will be and what will be the overall budget allocated to this mechanism? Thank you for your attention and answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u49	Mr Minister, in the VTM news we were told that the 320 ANPR cameras of the federal police along our motorways and regional roads are hardly used to intercept criminals. However, the motorways are certainly escape routes for criminals throughout the country. Almost all reports of the cameras are classified for lack of personnel. Road police only pull out when a vehicle is seen being searched in a terrorist file or in an investigation into a murder or robbery. Federal road police don't bother when it comes to a stolen car or an uninsured car. It should be noted that the road police are seriously understaffed today. In order to implement the policy, the federal police realized an ANPR camera network. The network of 1,000 ANPR cameras ensures the delivery of a mass of data, which are permanently processed by the SICAD. According to my information, a working group is preparing the organisation of real-time intelligence centres. In several provinces, initiatives have already been launched to coordinate the various ANPR networks in this context. However, national guidelines and uniform processes and tools are lacking, resulting in differences in the functioning of the different SICAD debt instruments. In order to meet the need for uniform management, a vision on police information management was drawn up. Minister, can you tell us how the 320 cameras of the federal road police are connected to the 680 cameras of the federal police? Are reports forwarded within that network? Is there a connection to the local police? Can you confirm that a working group is preparing real-time intelligence centres? How's that going? Which ANPR networks are already aligned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u50	Mr Vandenput, first of all, I can say that the intervention policy applied in response to the ANPR hits is based on global strategic visions validated by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee. The vision serves as a guide and ensures a minimum of uniformity and alignment. The vision is reflected at a district level in protocol agreements and the directors-co-ordinators, the dircos, have initiated and coordinated consultations in this area. The federal road police advised in that consultation to take into account the seriousness of the facts that give rise to a hit and the time that has passed since the facts were committed. Of course, the available intervention capacity also determines the way in which a hit can be actively responded to, with a view to an interception. On the basis of these criteria, priorities were identified. So I can reassure you that serious criminal acts, ranging from terrorism to theft with violence, disappearances and manslaughter, are among the priorities. I cannot give you an exact list, because it could make the ANPR tool less effective and lead to contrast strategies for criminals. The ANPR notifications may also be used in second or third line by phenomenon coordinators or researchers. This is done at different levels, both at federal and local police level, depending on whether it is a case of judicial or administrative police. The national ANPR network is in full construction. A national technical database is being developed which will process and unlock the data of all ANPR cameras placed by the integrated police or used by the integrated police. Processes in that network will allow notifications to be forwarded. Dear colleague De Maegd, the first phase of the national network, which has been fully completed, consists of about 250 cameras. They were placed at tactical locations on motorways by the Federal Police, the port of Antwerp, international and regional airports and by the Flemish Region. The first version of the national technical data bank provides limited access to police officers. We expect the second phase, with additional cameras and a second version of the national technical database, to be operational in the fall of 2019. As soon as it is operational, the existing networks of the different local police areas can be connected to this national technical data bank. This will therefore be partially achieved in the autumn of this year and in the spring of 2020. The working group on real-time intelligence centres, RTICs, composed of representatives from the different regions, has already developed a general philosophy and a draft vision text. A need for RTIC training has been identified. At SICAT Limburg, an RTIC workstation has been installed in the control room 24 hours a day, 7 days a week since February 2018. I hope that other boroughs will follow quickly. The legislative framework for SICAT must be supplemented by a royal decree for which a draft has already been drafted. Pending its publication, we will work with circulars. With respect to your question about the information management vision text, I refer to my answer to your other question about the quality of information management. For the implementation of the national ANPR network as a whole, the government has made EUR 36.5 million available to the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u51	Minister, thank you. Unless I am mistaken, I have not heard a response regarding the lack of staff to handle the registered files. I will go through a written question to get more details on this, if I may. I would also like to know how many files of this type have been closed, and how many cases have been prosecuted. I will file a written question for these answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u52	I see no problem in providing a concrete answer to your question, Mr De Maegd. If you want to put it in committee, I agree. As soon as I can answer you, I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answers. I can only observe that the 1,000 cameras that are being rolled out are not all operational from day one and that the information flow is not yet perfect. That's normal, too. In our police zone, in the grape region, we have installed 30 cameras. In two years the number of burglaries has fallen by 50 % and for 17% of the burglaries we have potential offenders in sight. For 8 % we have the perpetrators and they are actually prosecuted. If we make all those cameras operational and link them, the local and federal police can really work together. We'll be able to track down offenders and identify patterns all over the country. Today, the zones sometimes work side by side and the flow of information is not yet very smooth. Sometimes that still has to go the verbal way. So there's still work to be done. I hope that we will be done within two or three years, because it is a necessary, expensive and valuable investment that needs to be recouped through greater efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u54	Minister, in February 2019 you announced here in committee that since the new law on private security of 2 October 2017, the federal police had issued one public contract covering private security services. It was a public contract in the framework of the surveillance of highway parkings in the fight against transmigrants. The fact that the private surveillance sector is addressed and deployed to contribute to security orders is a positive observation. After all, it was an objective of the new law regulating private and special security. This law allows the private security sector to become more involved in public security initiatives. In this context, you encouraged cooperation between the police and the private sector, which is a very good thing. The positive possibilities are demonstrated by examples such as the preventive deployment of surveillance agents in highway parking, football matches, critical infrastructure and public road events. The current legal framework does indeed offer many opportunities to relieve police forces from certain tasks. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you tell me how many public contracts relating to private security services have been issued by the federal police? What were these assignments concrete? Can you also give an overview of the use of the private sector by certain local police areas since the new law came into force? Do they make greater use of the new possibilities? What measures have you taken to encourage cooperation between the police and the private sector? What do you think needs to be done in the future to make effective use of the new possibilities in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u55	Mr Vandenput, my answer will be shorter than your question. Our former colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has put a written question to the same effect. 3876 of the previous legislature. The services have confirmed to me that the situation has not changed since then and that, in other words, no new additional contracts have been awarded to the private sector. It was always only temporary assignments. It was about a prescreening and surveillance of the highway parkings. In reply to your last question, I can tell you that the existing police-private cooperation policy is continuing. It is up to the government with full authority to examine new opportunities. For all that is useful, I brought a copy of the answer given to our former colleague Alain Top in February 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u56	Minister, I will look at that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 55000319C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u58	Mr President, the end-of-career measures for members of the operational framework include the pre-pension non-activity scheme, known as "NAPAP". This system was introduced for members of the framework who, prior to the 2014 decision of the Constitutional Court to terminate the favourable pension rules for the police, had a preferential early pension age of 54, 56 or 58 years. However, as this regime has resulted in many additional costs for police areas, which already have to deal with very tight budgets, the federal authorities decided at the time to provide compensation in the form of subsidies. One example is the Val de l'Escaut police area, of which I am the modest president. In this area, NAPAP-related subsidies for the first quarter of 2019 were received only at the end of July. The subsidies for the last quarter of 2018 were not received. In addition, we are still waiting for subsidies in the second quarter of 2019. How do you explain these delays? Can you tell us when payments for the second quarter can be received? Moreover, it would appear that the Royal Decree establishing NAPAP did not provide for an end date. However, some seem to say that it can no longer be requested after 31 December 2019. What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u59	I had the privilege of meeting your chief of police in Bruges, as part of the cross-border work we are doing together. The Royal Decree of 9 November 2015 laying down provisions on the end-of-care scheme for staff members of the operational framework of the integrated police has created an own early departure regulation for the police, which applies until all early departure regulations in the federal public sector are adapted to the new pension scheme for heavy trades. At the 2015 budget conclave, the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2015 decided to provide for a temporary financing mechanism for the 2016 to 2019 budget years. Indeed, it was necessary to provide for a longer period, since the government agreement at the time provided for the adjustment of pension regulations. Unfortunately, this project could not be completed before the end of the legislature, for the reasons we all know. With a view to preparing the 2020 budget, I have taken the initiative to propose an extension of the funding mechanism. Nevertheless, this extension was seen as a new initiative. In accordance with the circular of 21 December 2018 on budgetary prudence during the current business period, my proposal was not initially successful. Given the importance for the relevant police area staff, I remain of the view that, pending a comprehensive agreement on pensions, this temporary funding mechanism should be extended in 2020. The delay in payment is due to the fact that we are currently in provisional twelfths, which means that we receive the budget in instalments. Here is the distribution distribution of the tranches for this year, for a total amount of 36,878,000 euros. The total amount claimed by the police areas for this year is approximately 32,500,000 euros. The first quarter was effectively liquidated in July 2019. We have to wait for the release of the last tranche to be able to pay the second quarter. Since the introduction of the pre-pension non-activity scheme (NAPAP), it has been formally agreed that additional funding for the federal police and local police should only be provided during the current term of the legislature. The Royal Order provides for a funding mechanism ending December 31, 2019, but does not terminate the NAPAP regime. This means that from 1 January 2020, members of the operational framework who will apply for NAPAP will be able to obtain it, but police areas will no longer receive subsidies. We are looking for a solution within the government to allow the funding of those who wish to benefit from this system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. Firstly, with regard to payment, with the provisional twelfths, of course, we can only take note of the current situation. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention, Minister, to the fact that staff will not be able to refuse to take NAPAP from January 1, 2020. You easily understand that certain police areas will be in serious financial difficulties because all this is not necessarily budgeted in the five-year plan drawn up for the entire municipal legislature. So we are moving towards difficulties and I think that the areas will react to this. If you could be our spokesperson in the government to try to find a solution, we would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u61	Mr President, Minister, a recent report has made it possible to highlight a reality that is cold in the backs of all Democrats or simply of all those who have a little memory. In Germany, for the first quarter of 2018 alone, 8,605 crimes attributed to the far right were recorded. This represents an increase of 900 cases compared to the first quarter of 2018. These figures are worrying in our large neighbouring country, but they also reflect the authorities' concern to link these crimes with their ideological sources. The far right is progressing in many European countries and our country is no exception. This progression is accompanied by acts of violence (physical or symbolic) liberated by this "banalization" of fascism in its contemporary form. Mr Minister, are there any statistics in our country to measure the number of crimes and offences that can be attributed to the far right or its sympathizers? If not, why? What measures have been taken, at the police or security level in the broad sense, to combat this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u62	Mr President, Mr Senesael, the monitoring of violent right-wing extremism and the resulting crimes is actively carried out by the integrated police. In the context of judicial investigations, the capacity of the police to act has been improved through the amendment of the MPR Act (special methods of research). This includes the possibility of searching the suspect's computer systems and infiltrating the Internet. However, the transition from traditional means of communication to encrypted computer systems, as well as the short lifespan of different groups and ad hoc alliances with other groups such as hooligans and bikers' gangs complicate both judicial investigations and the collection of information on the phenomenon. Finally, we note that complaints about offences in this phenomenon do not always go through the police but can, for example, be referred directly to the investigating judge. All this means that the image remains incomplete and it is difficult to produce statistically relevant data. Nevertheless, the following figures may give an idea of the extent of certain aspects of the phenomenon. The number of minutes for denialism written by the police is 9 in 2015, 6 in 2016, 12 in 2017 and 9 in 2018. The number of anti-Semitism complaints reported to Unia was 53 in 2015, 109 in 2016, 56 in 2017 and 101 in 2018. The number of people linked to extreme right-wing organisations in the police database for monitoring groups and phenomena is 2,848 in 2018. My department is responsible for the inclusion of groups and phenomena in this database of the administrative police. The most recent measure is the inclusion of persons who show signs of problematic or violent radicalisation, which allows for the follow-up of persons concerned when they are not yet subject to judicial investigation or follow-up in the framework of the plan to combat radicalism (plan R). This R plan provides for the multidisciplinary follow-up of persons officially referred to by the OCAM as terrorist fighters or propagandists of hatred. The partners in the R plan are the local police and the federal police, the intelligence services, the public prosecutor's office, the OCAM and, where appropriate, a number of services such as the Office of Foreigners and the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries (DG EPI) The latter also provides the necessary elements to the R plan partners and follow-up during the detention itself. Finally, offences against the applicable legislation are also the subject of criminal investigations. It is important that the intention of terrorism or non-terrorists, the motivation of hatred and racism or discrimination are always established unequivocally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u63	Mr President, I thank the Minister for the comprehensiveness of his response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u64	I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that Members are given the opportunity to translate their oral questions into written questions. The cabinet has promised me that it will be answered in no time. Mrs Thibaut, I suppose you'd like to ask your questions, right?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u65	Minister, my question is about the Taser assessment report in the pilot police areas. At the end of 2019, you received the report on the use of the electric gun in the fifteen police zones participating in a pilot phase. I note that this report by the Standing Committee on Local Police is still not public. In addition, it seems to me that you have extended this period by one year and that you have authorized other areas that wish to join the project. There would now be 25 zones. Here are my questions. Why is this report not so far public? Could I get it? Do you confirm that you have expanded the project to other areas? Can you give me the opinion of the College of Attorneys General on the legal framework currently applied to the use of the electric gun, which would be that of non-lethal firearms? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u66	Dear colleague, since the results of the trial period and the limited use of the electric pulse gun in these pilot areas were encouraging – five uses between August 2018 and February 2019 – I decided to extend the trial period under the same conditions until 30 June 2020. In addition, I have decided to extend the project to other possible candidate police areas. Since the initial authorisation, the following 11 police zones have been added to the 15 participating areas: Brussels-Capital-Ixelles/Brussel Hoofdstad Elsene, Namur-Capital, Moescroen-Mouscron, Mariemont, MIDOW zone, Dendermonde-Termonde, Grammont-Geraardsbergen, Blankenberge zone, RIHO zone, Zennevallei zone and Vlaamse Ardennen zone. As far as your last question is concerned, I would refer you to my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u67	Minister, I hear you're referring me to the Minister of Justice. However, the report of the Standing Committee on Local Police falls within your competence. Can I get it? Is this report not public? Today, we can't find him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u68	I understand, but as far as the opinions of the College of Attorneys General of the Kingdom are concerned, the answer really falls within the competence of my colleague from Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u69	But what then is your answer to my first question about the report of the Standing Committee on Local Police, on which you have based yourself to broaden this experience? Could we get it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u70	Why is the report not published to date? Of course, it is also a link with the Minister of Justice. It's up to him to see if he's public or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u71	But here, as a member of the Committee on the Interior, I say that it is not the Minister of Justice who decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u72	Yes, it is. I will table the answer with Parliament's services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u73	Mr. Chair, Minister, during the summer, we experienced an upsurge in cable flights along railway lines. Since the beginning of the year, Infrabel has recorded between 130 and 140 cable flights that have had an impact on passenger traffic. So we can imagine that these figures are higher today. It appears that flights are mainly concentrated on the routes between Namur and Brussels and on the routes between Namur and Liège. Infrabel and SNCB are relatively poor despite the many technical developments that are supposed to deter malfrats. For its part, the Federal Judicial Police investigates at its best on the basis of few elements. It is a real work of ants where you have to gather information in order to exceed the simple flight qualification and obtain that of association of criminals. The task is enormous and complex. Minister, what are the most affected areas and what is your analysis of the situation? Can a cadre of non-full staff during the holidays, in particular, explain this resurgence that we experienced during the summer? Finally, is there a strategic cell between your services, the local police zone, the Federal Judicial Police and Infrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u74	Mr President, Mrs Thibaut, the theft of cables along the railways has increased in recent months. The region most particularly affected is Liège, where virtually all railway lines have been impacted by these flights. In the Namur region, flights are more localized to Isnes and Gembloux. There are other facts that have been committed in other regions, but these are still marginal and limited in relation to the regions mentioned. The holiday period does not explain the increase in flights since 2018. Proximity to Holland and/or Germany is one of the most decisive factors since the legislation on the resale of metals is not as restrictive and controlled as in Belgium. The coordination of actions, measures taken and/or taken from a repressive but also preventive point of view is carried out through the coordinating director (DirCo). In this case, the DirCo of Liège highlighted the usefulness of the existence of such an operational platform. In addition, in September, DGSOC organized an operational coordination meeting on this issue to exchange information in the context of cable flight investigations and to define a common strategy. With regard to the measures taken, it was agreed that the Director General would seek coordination from the Federal Prosecutor's Office in some of its investigations, that the Directorate-General would provide technical support to criminal analysts and would organize a platform for the exchange of information. Decisions relating to police techniques and investigations cannot be communicated but for your information, during the nights of 1 and 2 October 2019 in Liège, operations, at my request, took place between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. with several teams. There was no cable theft reported that night.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u75	Minister, thank you. I do hear you're working. The task is enormous and complex. The stakes are really worth it. The consequences for travellers are heavy. The train really needs to be an attractive alternative to solving the problems of climate and mobility that we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u76	Minister, this question brings us back to the nuclear sector. The State-owned Belgoprocess, which is responsible for the treatment of nuclear waste in our country, warns in its annual report that the storage capacity for low-radioactive waste is almost complete. For certain types of waste, Belgoprocess indicates that it is at the limit. Belgoprocess has been approved by the FANC to extend the 151X building on the Dessel site, which can be extended within the existing permits. However, it is an emergency solution, an interim solution to a final disposal of the waste. My question relates to the future large processing plant. On that salvage project the FANC had to formulate an opinion this month, after which a public investigation by the FANC and a second scientific advice follow. In that final treatment plant, the disposal can only start in 2024. The longer the construction of that final disposal plant takes, the greater the problem of intermediate storage. What measures are being taken to provide sufficient capacity in the meantime, Minister? I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you about the storage of high-level radioactive waste stored today on the Tihange and Doel sites and why the NIRAS has been investigating the possibility of geological storage in underground clay layers for some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u77	Mr Ravyts, the problem of the storage capacity of radioactive waste is a task for the NRAS, the National Institute for Radioactive Waste and Enriched Wastes, which falls within the competence of the Energy and Economic Ministers. The FANC has the sole power to protect people and the environment from the dangers of ionizing radiation. The Agency is therefore not responsible for the management of radioactive waste, but is responsible for ensuring that it is carried out under safe conditions. I assume your second question concerns the storage of irradiated nuclear fuel on Tihange and Doel sites. On both sites, the irradiated nuclear fuel is temporarily stored in the reactor docks of the different reactor units after use in the nuclear reactors. In addition, in Doel there is also a centralised storage facility in which the fuel is stored in containers, the so-called fuel container building. In Tihange there is also a centralized storage facility where the fuel is stored under water in docks, the so-called building DE. These storage facilities will reach their maximum storage capacity in the coming years. Therefore, the operator concerned wishes to build a new fuel container storage building on both sites, the so-called SF2 project, which stands for Spent Fuel Storage Facility. For Tihange, a nuclear licence was applied for in 2018 at the FANC. This application for authorisation is still pending. This application for authorisation is still awaited for objective purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification. I am, of course, new to Parliament and it is a good thing that you once again state where the powers lie. In any case, a Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety has been set up, the range of which has been considerably extended compared to the previous legislature. I read that the management of radioactive waste is to be treated seriously in the long term. We can therefore discuss the issue further there, of course also with your colleague responsible for the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u79	Mr President, Mr Minister, as you know, recruitment to the federal police has been a problem for many years: a lengthy selection process, a lack of applications, a low success rate, which makes recruitment too few. In practice, at present, 3,700 posts would remain vacant. In committee, you announced a few weeks ago that discussions had to take place, particularly with the unions, in order to review the selection criteria, sometimes too strict. In a recent interview with the Dutch-speaking press, Commissioner General Marc De Mesmaeker stated that he wanted to question the next federal government on this issue by asking it to relax the rules, for example by allowing the selection of candidates with a criminal record. If this proposal may seem surprising, it would, in his view, make it possible not to miss interesting profiles but having, I quote, made youth mistakes. According to her, six perfectly adapted candidates had recently been rejected for this reason. Mr Minister, my questions are therefore simple. What is your reaction to such statements? Is there any need, in your opinion, to review the selection criteria for our federal police officers? In concrete terms, would it be possible and acceptable to see in the future police officers without a blank criminal record? More broadly, can you provide an update on the ongoing discussions on this issue? Are specific changes in the criteria for access to the profession already acquired? Are other tools being studied to address the shortage? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u80	Mr President, Minister, on 9 July we learned in the press that Commissioner General Marc de Mesmaeker, in an interview given to the Knack, stated that he wanted to ask the next government to relax the conditions for entering the police service and therefore to consider the possibility of hiring new recruits with a criminal record. We know that today about 3,700 posts are declared vacant. And like my colleague Mr. As De Maegd pointed out, just a few weeks ago, you were telling us that some discussions were under way on this subject. So, in the light of these remarks, minister, let me worry about the quality of the engagement of future police officers, with such measures. Although I understand the willingness of the federal police to want more transparent, effective, and sometimes even more flexible recruitment, I wonder about the quality of candidates who would have a criminal record. Therefore, Minister, allow me to ask you for clarification of your political position with regard to such comments from our Commissioner-General. But also following discussions over the past several weeks on the measures put in place to remedy the 3,700 vacant places on the ground. And finally, Mr. De Mesmaeker was talking about a limited criminal record, let me ask you what is the definition of such a criminal record. Thank you very much for the answers you will give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u81	The Commissioner General has never made such a statement. The weekly in question acknowledged it and amended it. He then changed the text a few hours after the publication on the website. There is no question of recruiting persons with criminal records into the police force. On the contrary, the Federal Police pleaded that there should be a legal framework for refusing persons who had been convicted of a certain type of offence before the selection procedure began. In fact, the federal police place a great deal of emphasis on the background and knowledge of the standards of their candidates. So there is absolutely no question of being flexible. There will always be a screening and a morality investigation for all candidates. I refer to the audit of the recruitment and selection service by KPMG, already mentioned several times. The audit revealed several areas for improvement. In response to the results of this audit, a new selection concept was developed by the Personnel Directorate for recruitment and selection as part of the optimalization of recruitment and selection. Four objectives must be met. First, better quality candidates. Secondly, shorter deadlines. Third, higher success rates. And fourthly, greater diversity. The concept is currently being negotiated with the approved trade unions, and pending agreement with the trade union organisations, additional staff capacity has been provided for the recruitment and selection department itself so that it can process more applications. Finally, we have the fast track procedures that allow us to pass the entire procedure on to a group of candidates in two weeks. This gives us the opportunity to significantly reduce the deadline for some candidates. So far, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u82	Mr. Chair, thank you, minister, for your answer, sometimes reassuring, since I understand that there will be no future police officers with a criminal record. I would also like to thank you for your reassuring response, since obviously the problem of shortage – which is obvious, 3,700 vacant posts – is caught up in order to speed up recruitment. Of course, we will not fail to keep an eye on this issue. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u83	Mr President, thank you for your reassuring response, Minister, I welcome this situation. I will not fail to keep an eye on the recruitment file. We'll probably have an opportunity to discuss it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u84	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 55000392C was converted into a written question. Mrs Rohonyi is not present for her question No. 55000414C. Debates of the European Parliament 55000436C and Question No 55000436C Mr Thiébaut's 55000475C has also been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u85	Mr President, Minister, the proper functioning of the relief zones is based on realistic and objective funding. Today, however, federal staffing is not indexed. Yet the tasks and missions of our country's relief zones are developing and becoming increasingly complex. Therefore, it is imperative that funding follow this evolution of needs. Today, non-indexing clearly means that the means of relief areas are shrinking over the years, while expectations and needs are constantly increasing. Consequently, the lack of resources will inevitably remain an obstacle that will weaken the organisation within the area itself and could lead to incidents which, unfortunately, are sometimes fatal. Therefore, despite the fact that we are in day-to-day business, minister, can you tell me why federal allocations to emergency areas are not indexed? In your opinion, could this indexing be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u86	(...) federal endowments were indexed in 2015 and 2016. As of 2017, all federal appropriations have been subject to savings measures. However, it was decided that appropriations for federal endowments are exempt from savings measures provided that they are not indexed. As the fiscal savings measures have ended, my services have considered that it is now appropriate to re-establish the indexing of appropriations for the federal allocations to the relief zones and the SIAMU, as well as the training subsidies. A request to this effect was therefore made in the context of the development of the federal budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u87	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u88	Mrs Song, you have the floor for your question on "Extension of the pilot phase concerning the use of the electric pulse gun". (55000505C)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u89	I think I have already answered an analogue question. But I can repeat my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u90	Mr President, Minister, I was about to announce that I was withdrawing my question, given the answers to my colleague Cécile Thibaut's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u91	If you wish, I can provide you with a copy of my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u92	Thank you, Minister, but I will be content with the answer you gave orally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u93	Question No 55000505C by Ms Julie Song is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u94	Minister, last July, the legal psychology department at the University of Mons published the results of a study on signs of stress among police officers. The study reveals that of the 83 volunteer police officers in 7 police areas in Hainaut and the Federal Judicial Police in Mons, 39% show signs of post-traumatic stress, and 13% show signs of acute stress, which are related to the police officer's emotional experience in the face of traumatic events that he experiences almost every day while working. Although this study is still going on for several years, we can, however, already ask ourselves about these intriguing results. Minister, in view of the results of the University of Mons study, what provisions have been put in place in our various police areas and particularly in the Hainaut region to assist these field police officers in their missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u95	Ms. Song, at the integrated police level, many measures have been put in place to address the issue of post-traumatic stress among police officers. The first ones begin with the basic training in which the violence and stress control modules give them an initial approach and tools to understand situations that may lead to post-traumatic stress. Continuing training is also being organized within the National Police Academy (ANPA) and some provincial police academies on the prevention of stress management and traumatic stress. In addition to integrated police training, there is also a stress team within the Federal Police, composed of social workers and psychologists who, at the request of federal and local police personnel, can accompany them in various ways. The stress team also provides annual emotional supervision for staff members for whom the nature of the mission is particularly emotionally heavy. The Federal Police Internal Prevention and Protection Service (IPPS) also conducts risk analyses for operational missions and negotiated management, equipment and infrastructure, in order to have a vision of the measures to be put in place to reduce the risks that could lead to post-traumatic stress. Apart from all the legal provisions and structural measures existing in the police, other specific measures within the district of Hainaut are put in place. At the area level, specific training is offered, such as peer support, which aims to provide police officers with tools to provide first-hand listening and a first-time filter for referral to the provincial psychological support service for Hainaut stakeholders. At Mons' deconcentrated judicial management (PJF), an increase in the problem of increasing stress has been identified for staff in recent years. As a result, additional measures such as permanent debriefings to staff to verbalize their post-intervention experiences and systematic debriefings for criminal raid teams have been put in place. Recently, the Mons PJF has set up a mandatory annual debriefing for staff, apart from ad hoc cases on demand. This will avoid some traumatic or burn-out stress that staff do not feel coming or refusing to express for various reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u96	Minister, thank you for your detailed and accurate answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u97	Mr President, Minister, during excavation at the JRC's site in Geel, one of the two main power lines was cut on 7 August 2019 and the power supply to the site went out. More than a month later, on 11 September 2019, a gas pipeline was hit during excavation on the same site of the JRC in Geel, where gas escaped. Both events were ranked as an incident level 1 on the INES scale. Mr Minister, since I am concerned about the safety of the residents, I have a number of questions about the incidents for you. First of all, what is the main task of the JRC? What nuclear processes are being carried out? Secondly, what works were carried out at that time? Was it the same contractor twice? Thirdly, how do you explain that in a good month's time two similar incidents occurred? After the first incident, were the safety regulations not complied with sufficiently accurately? What measures will be taken in the future to avoid such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u98	Mr President, Mrs Buyst, the Joint Research Centre in Geel is, as you know, a research institution of the European Commission. The institution conducts research in many areas that do not involve nuclear activities, such as food safety. The research institute also contains a nuclear section, containing two particle accelerators and labs. The nuclear part also carries out research and produces nuclear reference materials. The JRC is responsible for the safe operation of all installations on the site, both in the field of conventional and nuclear safety. Although the operator remains the final responsible for safety, the FANC monitors nuclear safety. In other words, the Agency ensures that the applicable rules on nuclear safety are always complied with by the JRC. The role of the FANC is therefore to monitor whether all possible precautions have been taken to protect the population, workers and the environment from the negative effects of ionizing radiation. The work currently being carried out on the site concerns leveling and digging on the non-nuclear part of the site in preparation for the construction of a new non-nuclear building, which will house offices and labs. The incidents of the past few weeks took place on the non-nuclear part of the site. The same contractor was involved. In both incidents, the causes were different. In the first incident, the cutting of the electric cable was due to a false estimation of the depth of the cable relative to the ground level. During the second incident, a distance of at least one metre from the gas line was maintained at the digging site. However, during digging an underground concrete plate was hit, which in turn touched the gas line, which was one metre further. The incidents have thus occurred on the non-nuclear part of the site. They had no impact on the safety and protection of workers, the population and the environment. However, the incidents may indicate a certain negligence in the preparation and/or execution of excavations which the FANC would like to avoid involving nuclear installations. For these reasons, both incidents resulting from excavation were classified on the level 1 of the INES scale. The excavations were suspended for the time being by the operator. Measures to avoid such incidents in the future will be developed and implemented in the coming weeks. For example, an excavation permit will always be required, allowing for better risk mapping depending on the zone, and in areas with critical installations or critical lines, such as high voltage cables and gas lines, ground suction machines will be used and those critical lines can be shut down during the excavation work itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u99	Minister, your answer reassures me. You also seem to be of the opinion that we cannot afford any risk in the field of nuclear safety. We must ensure that the development of nuclear activities, as is the case in the Kempen, is carried out under strict protection measures. However, you have just made it clear that this is being taken into account very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u100	Mr President, in our view, the reorganisation of the railway police is mainly about centralisation. The result is a much larger area of work, which means that they are less present at the train stations. This will also increase the pressure on the local police. Let me give you an example. In the event of a fatal train accident, it takes much longer for the railway police to arrive at the scene and therefore the local police are called in. We have therefore received the signal from the local police that there is a duplication of work, with increased workload. In Limburg, the satellite station in Hasselt would disappear and move to Antwerp. This move is a cause for concern. I therefore have a number of questions. Are you aware of these reorganisation plans? Is there a legal framework to implement these changes? Is there a ministerial letter supporting these changes? Can you support the maintenance of a Limburg satellite station when the trains are running? Do you possibly provide more resources for the local police if this centralisation is chosen and, as a result, more pressure is placed on the local police? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u101	Mr Verduyckt, the task of the Railway Police is to ensure safety on the train and on the tracks, as well as on the platforms for supralocal phenomena. Upon my arrival, the Railway Police proposed a new vision, with a view to a more thorough specialisation. It is not the intention to cut down the specialised capacity of the Railway Police, but rather to make better use of it and to shorten the intervention periods on the rail network itself. On my question, this new vision will first be discussed with the Permanent Committee of Local Police, SNCB and Securail. The outcome of these talks can lead to a new circular and new arrangements with the local police. In other words, there is no structural closure of posts. Within the framework of my powers, I will try to work through circulars so that no legal initiatives are required.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u102	Minister, this was a short and clear answer. It is particularly important that you take those concerns with you, and that is what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u103	Mr President, Minister, when it comes to road checks, the number of speeding offences falls by some 78%. Research shows that the number of accidents involving route checks is falling by almost 30%. According to the most recent data, hardly any active path checks have been added, while the hardware is already installed. The cause would be the lack of connectors to be able to take and read the photographs of the offenders, or the software to make the system work. In addition, the operation of such route control depends on the good understanding between the Flemish Minister of Mobility and the Roads and Traffic Agency, on the one hand, and the Federal Police and the Permanent Commission of Local Police, on the other. Firstly, has the central management system already been achieved? If not, what are the reasons for this? Secondly, how is cooperation with the Flemish Region, in this competent road manager, the AWV? Thirdly, are all the ANPR cameras of the AWV already linked to the central management system? If not, how come? Is there a time frame for linking? Fourthly, does the federal police have sufficient personnel to process the footage of the trajectories? Fifthly, what do you think of the delay caused by the software system file in installing and making it operational on the Flemish regions and motorways?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u104	Mr President, Minister, there is still no conclusion to my colleague's numerous questions, namely that this is a surreal issue in a surreal country. The federal involvement in the processing of the data from the automatic route checks has been the subject of discussion for some time now. For the processing of the speeding offences by the regional processing centres (GVC), connectors are needed for the conversion of the photocopiers to the desired format. In July 2019, all 68 connectors available to the Flemish processing centres were in use for the processing of cameras already being read out. Additional connectors could no longer be purchased by the federal police within the current market procedure. A new market procedure was initiated. This summer, the Federal Police's ICT department investigated the extent to which the findings could be brought to the processing centres by additional approved and homological route checks. The Local Police Permanent Commission has requested additional support from the Flemish authorities through the Road Safety Fund. It is reported that the integrated police have been waiting for additional support from the Regional Road Safety Fund since 2017. Firstly, has there already been an award for connectors under the new market procedure? Secondly, will the deadline, namely at the end of this year, be maintained for the processing of the additional findings by the new route checks? Thirdly, is there already an answer from the Flemish authorities regarding the additional support requested for the GVCs from the regional road safety fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u105	Mrs Buyst, the new processing software was ordered this year and will be developed and delivered in stages to ensure the continuity of the processing of potential infringements. Delivery is expected in the first quarter of 2020. However, through suboptimal alignment, the new route checks were installed for the development and commissioning of the new software. However, the cooperation between the ANPR project team of the federal police and the Road and Traffic Agency is considered to be excellent. The AWV is responsible for the installation of the speed control systems and the transmission of their images. The police are responsible for the processing of the infringements. In Flanders, the federal police do so in the regional processing centres of Ghent and Antwerp. The condition is that a processing protocol is established for the speed control installation between the owner of the installation, the judicial and administrative authorities and the federal police. The ANPR cameras purchased through the framework contract of the Flemish Region are directly connected to the national network of the federal police and are the subject of a major merging operation. The aim is to connect the cameras involved, spread over four months, to the federal police network. The launch of the operation is currently scheduled for December 2019. The exact need for additional police capacity to deal with the violations is difficult to determine. On the one hand, the impact of the new software on the processing time cannot be estimated exactly. On the other hand, it also depends very much on road users and the adjustment of their driving behaviour. The key issue here is the policy of the public prosecutor. Good agreements will make it possible to control the process and achieve the goal set. All this fits in with our supportive and strengthening role in the implementation of the joint mission to drastically reduce the number of road casualties and the severity of accidents on our roads. In the new market procedure, there is no longer a need for connectors. The new processing software has been developed to deal with the current problems. This new solution was designed for use by an unlimited number of cameras. The new processing software was ordered this year and will be developed and delivered in stages to ensure the continuity of the processing of potential offenders. We expect delivery in the first quarter of 2020. Finally, we do not have the information from Flanders on additional support for regional treatment centres from the regional road safety fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is clear that, as for Green, road safety is a priority for you. We are convinced that route checks can contribute to this. We must therefore ensure that tackling speed offenders does not remain a dead letter. Of course, it remains a strange story that the delivery of the connectors will only take place in the first quarter of 2020, when it was originally 2018 and then 2019. We insist that the checks on the routes become operational as soon as possible. In this way we can ensure that road safety remains a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer on the technical side of the story and the state of play. You did use the description "suboptimal alignment" at the beginning of your answer. That was also a bit of the tone in my introduction, just like Mrs Buyst. The completion follows in the first quarter of 2020 and is work in progress. We will continue to follow up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Cogolati's 550000602C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u109	Mr President, Minister, in October 2018, the NGO Médecins du Monde published a survey on police violence against migrants and refugees in transit in Belgium. The survey indicated that, in a given sample, 25 per cent of the migrants interviewed had been victims of violence by the Belgian police. This report resulted in an investigation by Committee P, the findings of which were made in February 2019. Committee P's survey points to some shortcomings in the system for ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of migrants, without confirming or overturning the figures mentioned by Médecins du Monde. However, as Myria points out in a note published on September 3, 2019, the findings of these two surveys are not opposed since the method used was different. Minister, what follow-up have you given to the recommendations made by NGOs to ensure respect for the human rights of migrants during planned or accidental police interventions? What actions have you implemented since the publication of these various reports?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u110	Mr President, dear colleague, the Federal Police closely follow up on the reports and recommendations of the official bodies (the P Committee and the AIG), but not on NGOs whose investigative methods appear to be very different. On the other hand, she is in contact with Myria, with a view to constantly improving police procedures towards increasing respect for the physical and moral integrity of people. With regard to the February 2019 reports of the P Committee, one of the important recommendations is the drafting of a transmigration manual to ensure, on the one hand, access to the necessary information for all partners and, on the other hand, uniformity of the procedures implemented. This recommendation was taken to the letter of the Federal Police. A questionnaire was sent to all entities to collect existing data and expectations. The answers are being analysed. Respect for human rights is at the heart of the "Holocaust, Police and Human Rights" training organized at the Dossin barracks, in collaboration with Unia, since 2014. It has already hosted 10,000 police officers and offers, alongside a historical component, current case studies, including those related to relations with migrants or the phenomenon of migration. To complete this training, other modules are being or already exist. For example, the "Hate Crimes" training provided by Unia for the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police has been enriched with a component on transmigration. Apart from raising awareness of the plight of migrants, it is important to provide law enforcement officers with the necessary material resources so as to be able to understand in the best possible way the interactions with this type of population: the possibility of seeing a doctor, the possibility of receiving meals and drinks, access to transport, etc. In this context, a generic risk analysis on transmigration is being finalized. This point is also one of the objectives of the draft manual referred to above.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u111	Minister, thank you. I am reassured and pleased that you are taking Myria's recommendations into account, not NGOs, as you pointed out. In addition, you are talking about information and training. These are two positive points to be raised as well. In his report, Myria also noted the length of detention, particularly of minors. I draw your attention to non-compliance, in particular with the European Convention on Human Rights, in your future work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u112	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55000646C, 55000704C and 55000705C of Mrs Jadin have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 55000685C into a written question. Mrs Matz has come back from another committee to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u113	Important discussions took place in the Justice Committee. Unfortunately, we still do not have the gift of ubiquity. Minister, on Monday 19 August, following a tragic accident, Simon Gautier, a 27-year-old French hiker, was found dead in a ravine, 9 days after having injured himself in southern Italy. Since Italy has not yet deployed the AML geolocation system, it is understandable that the research has been long and difficult. This tragic event leads me to question the state of operation and the effectiveness of this system in Belgium. In Belgium, we have two applications, the AML, and the 112.be, which are downloadable. In a 2017 communication from emergency centre 112, she explained that an Android phone with a Belgian sim card was needed so that call centres 112 and 101 could accurately locate the victims. These localization technologies exploit the smartphone's location possibilities in order to automatically transmit the position to the emergency call centres. Since 2015, the Interior FPS has been insisting on smartphone manufacturers and suppliers to introduce the AML. In 2017, only Android supported this feature. At the same time, the 112.be application, developed by the emergency call centre with the same objectives and even more, must be downloaded and used by the victim to call 112. So, at present, can all smartphone systems support the AML? Is there an estimate of the number of inhabitants in Belgium with at least one geolocation system in case of emergency? Are there objective results with respect to the effectiveness or failures of each of the systems, 112.be and AML? Are these two systems complementary or is one of them privileged? Is the AML system usable in Belgium by victims from abroad? Are there any new awareness-raising campaigns planned in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u114	Most smartphones under ten years of age using the Android operating system support the functionality of the Advanced Mobile Rental, the AML, which you just mentioned, such as smartphones from manufacturers Samsung, Huawei, Motorola, LGG and Xiaomi. Android supports the AML for all Belgian emergency numbers, both 112 and 101 and the old 100. Apple, with the IOS operating system, also supports the AML from IOS11.3 and later. However, Apple has only activated the AML for emergency number 112 at this time. We strive to convince Apple to also offer this feature for numbers 101 and 100. In addition, Apple validates the AML by Telecom operator and this feature was only available until recently for Proximus customers. According to the information received by my administration, Orange and Base customers could also benefit from this service in a future update. IOS and Android systems hold more than 95% of the smartphone market share. Objective results are not yet available, but we already have some examples where App 112.be in Belgium has shown a great difference in the speed of locating a person in distress. The App 112.be has the same features as the ALM and offers even more possibilities. At the start of App 112.be, you can transmit personal information including medical information and contact information that may be essential to help a person in distress. In addition, if you press the right icon of the application, you are in direct contact with the power plant that can provide you with the right help. The firefighters' icon or ambulance icon directs you to the emergency station 112 competent for emergency firefighters' intervention and emergency medical assistance while the police icon puts you in contact with the station 101 competent for police assistance. This way, you avoid having to transfer calls when you dialed 112, for example, but you don't need police help or police help. In addition, App 112.be offers the possibility of creating a chat, which is mainly intended for the deaf or hearing impaired or for people with speech disorders, but can also be used in crisis situations when the caller cannot speak, for example during a burglary. Finally, the location data transmitted by App 112.be are updated every 30 seconds, which can be important when an attacker is in motion. The App 112.be therefore offers more possibilities than the ALM. As far as victims from abroad are concerned, the ALM system is not currently available. Given the availability of this technology, we can assume that it is only a matter of time before this option is activated. Therefore, awareness campaigns are not on the agenda especially because of the high price but application 112.be will be highlighted as soon as the opportunity arises.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u115	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. There may have been something that escaped me. For 112 to locate the person, the application must have been downloaded. So if I dial the 112 of my smartphone now because I feel in danger and I don't know where I am, I think the 112 won't be able to locate me. You must have downloaded the 112 application to be geolocalizable, which is not the case for the majority of people. Many will have the reflex to compose 112 but not download the application. On the other hand, I do not understand Apple's reluctance to set up the AML system for other numbers than 112. I don't understand why they're motivated. It's still the fear of the big surveillance plot. I don't know. That's a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u116	This is probably a question for my colleague in charge of everything that relates to consumption, the interests of the customer and the protection of consumers. Secondly, there is a considerable increase in the tracking system. Many people use this system to see where we are permanently on Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u117	Do you confirm that you must have downloaded the 112 application in order to be geolocalizable? If you form the 112 of your keyboard in a classic way, I don't think you are.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u118	Frankly, that is a very technical question. I don't dare say anything. It's possible. I will inquire and give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u119	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u120	Minister, my question was tabled on September 30th. Since then, some information has been made available, fortunately, by Minister Ducrame. However, I believe that it remains relevant, as this subject can quickly and legitimately generate fear. On Thursday, 26 September, a fire occurred in a French company located in Rouen, classified "Seveso", and caused a significant smoke release. It is now known that particles of smoke have crossed our country. According to public information provided on 28 September by the Wallonia Crisis Centre and the Interregional Environment Cell (CELINE), concentrations of these fine particles that may have passed through Hainaut and the rest of Wallonia were very low. These bodies specified that atmospheric analyses had been carried out by the French authorities and that "no toxic compounds in quantities dangerous to human health have been identified". CELINE confirmed this conclusion. In addition, the same crisis centre stated that air quality remained good. In addition, as part of my role as mayor, I contacted the governor of the province of Hainaut, who confirmed these findings on 29 September by indicating that he had taken all precautions at his level and according to the prerogatives of his office. This response was reassuring. Minister, in the light of this event and the information provided to us, could you tell us what information you received from the provincial, regional and French authorities? Specifically, have they contacted your services, and according to what established procedure? Have provincial and regional authorities come into contact with your department, particularly in terms of civil protection. Have any steps been taken in this area? With regard to the management of this event located outside our borders and its potential civil protection impacts, do you consider that all the information and management procedures have worked well and are sufficient? For example, have BE-Alert and Risk Info been effectively informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u121	My dear colleague, I will outline the answer I gave in plenary two weeks ago, but with some new elements. On 26 September, a fire broke out at a Seveso site in Rouen, France. The Belgian National Crisis Centre was informed directly by the French Interministerial Crisis Management Operational Centre, proving the proper functioning of the communication procedure between our two countries. From the outset, the on-site surveys indicated that there was no risk to Belgium. When the information indicating an impact for Belgium came out in the media, the National Crisis Centre followed its internal procedure and undertook actions to verify this information. The Belgian National Crisis Centre has established contact with the federal departments of the governors concerned (Hainaut, West Flanders) and the Walloon Regional Crisis Centre. Governors were directly informed by the operational centre of the area outside France. Several documents were sent by the French authorities to Belgium, indicating that the suspended particulate matter level was below the information and recommendation threshold and that air quality remained good. At the local level, the National Crisis Centre also checked 112 power plants located in the potentially affected provinces from the relief areas. They did not identify any requests for intervention following the fire in Rouen from Thursday 26 to Monday 30 September. With regard to communication to the public, first of all, and in view of the absence of an attack on the security of citizens, as indicated by the measuring services and noted by the relief services, no urgent recommendations had to be issued. The use of BE-Alert therefore had no reason to be. In conclusion, given the evidence gathered, there was no need for coordination at the provincial or federal level. Pollution issues fall within the competence of the Regions for which it is the responsibility to carry out and monitor ground-based sampling. If the need for coordination emerged, the National Crisis Centre would ensure that the necessary initiatives were taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u122	Minister, thank you. Do you have any official information that the Walloon Region would conduct tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u123	I have no new information. From the general information I received when I replied to Mrs de Laveleye in plenary, I note that there was a slight increase in the presence of soot in milk, but that this was minimal. I can always find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u124	Minister, I don't want to surf on fear, but a mayor likes to give clear information to his citizens to avoid panic. The citizen is disturbed to the extent that, on the one hand, he receives information that there is no danger; on the other, a Walloon minister announces that she will not make an analysis because there is no danger but advises not to consume certain products (eggs or certain vegetables). In recent days, it seems that the Walloon Region has announced some analyses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u125	I learned that the normal samples taken contained a small additional percentage of soot. This percentage dropped almost immediately. Further measures would therefore not be necessary. I suggest you ask an oral question on this. I will check with the Walloon Region and inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u126	All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u127	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut's 55000725C has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir converted 55000728C into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Thibaut's 55000747C has been converted into a written question. Mrs Gabriels is not here to put her question. 55000764C. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Cogolati's 55000813C and 55000837C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u128	Mr President, as a new Member, I still have a little way to go in the wonderful world of Parliament. I have a general question. Why were two of my questions, which have already been put in general terms by colleagues, not merged?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u129	You shouldn't be looking for anything. I'll check with the secretariat. Normally, this is how it is done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u130	Minister, the Federal Police Evaluation Report shows that it is not prepared for a new major crisis, such as a terrorist threat. The federal police budget has fallen by 15% since 2012. We hear that one of the major problems with recruitment is the flexible timetable. A dedicated police officer doesn't hesitate to make the necessary overtime. But overtime is becoming the rule more and more often. The shortage of personnel is thus addressed by the goodwill of the police officers. With the publication of the evaluation report, some claim that the status of the police is too rigid to allow internal shifts, while the problem is actually with the total number of police officers. What is the current situation of overtime in the police? Is there an increase? Is there a demonstrable correlation with the staff shortage? What steps do you take or have you taken to make the profession of inspector more attractive? Is there an action plan with the federal police about this problem? Some call the regulations of inspectors too rigid to shift staff between services. Are there plans to change the status of the police? Does this take into account the attractiveness of the profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u131	Mr Colebunders, the fact that the questions have not been merged has to do with a technical matter in the processing system of the secretariat of the Chamber, because the questions had arrived about the same time. So you don't have to find out. Many questions have already been asked today about the police status and its rigidity. I see you still have questions. I will answer this question briefly. We will still have time to discuss this further, in response to a number of measures that need to be taken. The first question concerned the current situation regarding overtime. I have already replied to that today. I have already referred twice to the four-step plan to make the profession of inspector more attractive. As far as your third question is concerned, the status of police staff already guarantees, subject to specific conditions specific to the different mechanisms, multiple possibilities of shift within the federal police between the local and federal police forces and between the latter and the federal police. The mobility possibilities are there, there are no organisational divisions. Some of these mechanisms are, as I said, mobility, relocation, secondment or posting at the request of the interested party or of the services. However, I am not aware of the ongoing initiatives to amend the police status in this area, since the four possibilities cited have been included in the legal provisions established on the basis of the trade union consultation with the police unions. There will always be individual questions from inspectors which have not been answered, not in good time or not. There are many possibilities to deal with this informally or formally. With regard to the first two questions, to which I have already replied to other colleagues, I suggest that you give them to me in writing, and I can give you the specifications, otherwise it will be a list of dry figures which cannot be properly framed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u132	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'd like to make the bridge to last week's civil security hearing. At first sight, it has little to do with this dossier, but what we heard from the trade unionists at the time is consistent with what we hear about the federal police: staff shortages, long shifts that are killing people. A policeman, like firefighters and paramedics, can no longer do decent work that can guarantee the safety of citizens. We do not therefore believe that you should make the police officer's status more flexible, but that you should address the roots of the problem by stopping the policy of savings and hiring more staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u133	Mr President, I believe that my colleague from the PS was the first to ask this question this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u134	I have a more or less similar answer, but that does not alter the fact that I would like to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u135	In my view, my third, fourth and fifth questions have not yet been answered, unlike the first two. Let me repeat my questions. How are complaints about ethnic profiling handled? How can this procedure be upgraded in order to tackle the problem more thoroughly? Are there any training courses outside the regular police training to address the danger of ethnic profiling? Amnesty International raised this problem last year. What steps have been taken since then to combat this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u136	Mr Colebunders, within the framework of the "Terrorism" programme, drawn up by the Federal Police Directorate of Serious and Organised Crime, and in implementation of the 2012-2015 Security Plan, this service took an initiative to focus on border surveillance and control within the pillar of protection. I have already answered another question. Both the airport police at the national airport in Zaventem and the Railway Police in Brussels showed a demand for techniques for the detection of possible suspects and objective criteria for the selection of persons to be interpelled. Both are faced as front row border units with travel movements of foreign terrorist fighters and because of their specific location they are also targets for a terrorist attack. Unfortunately, this proved to be the same on 22 March 2016. The police area of Antwerp was added as a third pilot unit. In this way feedback could come from a local police area when the training was introduced in Belgium. The Behaviour Detection Officer (BDO) programme is based on the Dutch spotter programme. This is a specific training aimed at identifying suspicious behaviours. This training is of Israeli origin. The teaching material and the subjects were then adapted to the Belgian situation. Since 2016, more specifically the month of June, this training is given in different units of federal police and different zones of local police. 83 training sessions have been held so far and 1,206 police officers were trained: 517 French speakers and 689 Dutch speakers. The BDO course was also integrated into the basic training of the security agents of the new Directorate DGA/DAB, which was set up to take over military security orders after the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u137	Thank you, Mr Minister, for your reply. In order to achieve a non-racist police force, credible and serious initiatives must be put in place. The fight against ethnic profiling is a prime example of how serious the government wants to participate in it. We therefore hope that you will follow the recommendations of Amnesty International's organisation, take it to heart and implement a policy that will make ethnic profiling a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u138	Mr Minister, on 26 and 27 April 2006 it was decided to amend the Staff Regulations of officials of the administrative and logistics framework, i.e. CALog, of the integrated police as from 1 January 2007. Certain staff were entitled to a competence development allowance. Your predecessors repeatedly urged the Pension Ministers to recognise this allowance and to include it in the calculation of CALog staff's pension. However, the necessary legislative amendment has not been ratified by a royal decree for years. However, the then Minister of Pensions stated in a letter to your predecessor on 9 March 2010 that he wanted to take that initiative. In a letter dated 8 September 2015, the current Minister indicated that the above mentioned competence allowance is indeed eligible for pension calculation and that it would be included in the relevant law as soon as possible. He thus confirmed that in a letter dated 26 July 2016 to your predecessor. Three years later, however, the trade unions still have to address this problem at the negotiating table. That is why we are asking some questions. Would you like to raise this matter again with the Minister to resolve this problem? Will you endeavour to add this allowance retroactively to the pensions of the CALog staff who have already retired? After all, they have paid the social contributions and are legally entitled to them. How many staff members have already retired without their competence development allowance being calculated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u139	Mr Colebunders, there was an incredibly short period between submitting your question and the answer I have to give, especially with regard to the last part of your question. I suggest that you return the question in writing. Then I can give you the exact numbers. It was impossible to obtain it within a short period of time. The award of the competence development allowance for staff of the administrative and logistics framework, i.e. the CALog, of the integrated police, constitutes a betting supplement which can be taken into account for the calculation of the public pension. To this end, however, a draft royal decree should be submitted to the Minister. Following my letter on 22 February 2019, the Minister of Pensions replied that, given the budgetary impact of such a decision, it falls outside the very strict framework of current business management. With regard to retroactivity and its possible application to already retired staff, I would like to refer you to the colleague of Pensions, to whom you will have to ask the question. With regard to the number of CALog staff concerned who would retire without their competence development allowance being taken into account for the calculation of their pension, I refer to my introduction. I believe that we will continue to discuss this matter in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u140	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, but I can tell you that the trade unions are getting tired of the problem. We are talking about a statute that has been amended since 2007. It's almost kafkaian. For 12 years, therefore, people from the CALog staff have been retiring with less than they are entitled to. I therefore think it is high time that the Minister of Pensions finally acknowledged the additional calculation for the CALog staff. For our part, we will do our job, but we hope, Minister, that you will also be able to put some pressure on us so that this problem can finally be resolved after more than 12 years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic024x.u141	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55000846C has been converted into a written question, allowing us to end the committee. Thank you for being here.
