ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55000599C is converted into a written question. Mrs. Dedonder is not here. Her question No. 55000679C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u2	Mr President, in your reply to my oral question No. 55000147C stated that a subcommittee was set up at the Gaming Commission to deal with the implementation of the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018. On 18 September 2019, they would report to the Gaming Commission on how the KB should be applied in practice. A letter would then be published. I have the following questions. Firstly, what did the subcommittee decide on the 500 euro playing limit? Should it be applied per website or across all websites? On the basis of what arguments does the subcommittee come to its view? Secondly, what measures does the Subcommittee propose to monitor the playing limit, since the link with the National Bank does not exist for the time being? Thirdly, how does the subcommittee interpret the legal vacuum that exists because of the lack of a new KB which had to postpone implementation according to the law? Fourthly, what other instructions did the Subcommittee give as to the application of the Royal Decree?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u3	Mr Van Hecke, the subcommittee does not take a proper decision on this matter, but gives an interpretation that will be followed after approval by the Gaming Commission in the application of the Royal Decree. Such approval will take place at one of the next meetings of the Committee. At present, the gambling sector and broadcasting services still have the opportunity to make their final comments to the Royal Decree. The deposit limit of 500 euros per week is intended to apply definitively across all authorised websites. Since it is currently impossible to apply that rule effectively to all websites, for technical reasons, it is intended that operators apply it per website. This means that players can charge up to 500 euros per week to their player's account. The Subcommittee came to that view after reading the Royal Decree. A check will check whether operators effectively prevent players from charging their player's account when the added amount ensures that they exceed their deposit limit. If the operators do not do so, they commit an infringement which cannot be sanctioned. The rules surrounding the limit itself have now entered into force. Although software is still in development for the two rules, the deposit limit of 500 euros per week can already be applied per website. The entry into force of the provision on the increase of the deposit limit shall be determined by the King by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The computerization of the link between the Game Commission and the Centrale for loans to private individuals of the National Bank of Belgium will determine the final entry into force. A budget has been requested for the project. For a large part of that budget, a positive opinion has already been obtained from the Finance Inspector. As already stated, interpretations or recommendations of the Subcommittee are only official after approval by the Gaming Commission. The Subcommittee is looking for an application of the Royal Decree, whereby operators cannot avoid the rules by merely formal adaptation to their advertising messages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u4	Minister, I find it rather odd that an interpretation should be given, because if you read the RB correctly, it is quite clear that the limit is meant to be across all websites. That is also what seems to have come out of the interpretation, but we did not need the subcommittee for that, because the text of the Royal Decree was clear enough, even for someone from the opposition. However, I am pleased that this conclusion has been reached, because in an initial response from the spokesperson of the Gaming Commission a few weeks ago, who said that the rule does not apply across all websites, but that it applies per website, which is flagrantly contrary to the clear provisions of the RB. That ambiguity has been removed, and that is a good thing. I have one more comment. You say that providers will have to organise per website that they cannot go beyond EUR 500, pending computer systems to ensure that everything can be globalised. Today, however, one can also increase his limit to 2,500 euros with a simple mouse click, up to 5,000 euros or even unlimited. According to the regulations, consent must be given first, but this does not happen de facto. You can check all that yourself, if you go to such a website. Even if there is a limit of EUR 500, if one can raise its limit to EUR 2,500 or EUR 5,000 with a simple mouse click, then that limit will also remain de facto dead letter, so there is still a lot of work to be done, Minister, to make a definitive system of consumer protection around these limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u5	Madam President, Minister, in reply to my oral question in the Committee on Justice a few weeks ago, you said that the Gaming Commission requested access to the documents on the basis of which the judgment against Ladbrokes was delivered by the Brussels appeal court in order to initiate a possible sanction procedure. Mr Minister, has the Gaming Commission in the meantime been given access to the documents requested? If not, why not? On the basis of these documents, does the Gaming Commission intend to initiate a sanction procedure against Ladbrokes? Why is that, or why not? The answers to parliamentary questions about Ladbrokes are apparently also being read in London, as I heard this week, because I was addressed to them. They are therefore watching, indicating a certain interest in what is being said here about this listed company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u6	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, at the request of the Chairman of the Gaming Commission, a police officer has requested the documents from the Sectoral Federation, but he has not yet received them. The counsel of the sector federation of the cafes indicated that he should consult his client. A sanction procedure may be initiated upon receipt of the documents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u7	Minister, your answer was brief and concise. I'll follow up on this case and come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u8	Minister, in your reply to my oral question two weeks ago on the blocking of files at the Gaming Commission, you said that 59 blocked files were related to police officers who participated in online gambling in 2017, when that was banned. It is somewhat surprising that the Gaming Commission is dealing with these dossiers and not the public prosecutor. By letter 14/2013 of the College of Attorneys General, it states that "in view of the need to preserve the credibility of the action of the law enforcement officers in terms of games of chance," prosecution will be instituted "if a police officer violates Article 54 (2)." Are you aware of the existence of this directive, which stipulates that prosecution as defined above is one of the priorities of criminal policy? What is your view of this priority? In your opinion, is this directive contrary to current practice, namely that the Gaming Commission, and not the parquet, should take priority in this matter? If not, why not? If so, what is the cause of the current situation? How do you intend to remedy this situation and by when? How often has a PV been drafted since 2010 following an infringement of Article 54 (2) by a police officer? How often did this lead to a conviction? How often did it lead to a dismissal, friendly settlement or subpoena? How often did the Gaming Commission speak out and what effect did it take? La Dernière Heure writes that in 2018 a number of agents would have been caught in gaming facilities. However, their files would not have been delivered to the Gaming Commission. How many files are we talking about? What is the state of affairs in handling these CVs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u9	Mr Van Hecke, the circular COL 14/2013 is of a confidential nature. So I cannot go into detail on this. In principle, the prosecution will allow the Gaming Commission to take action against identified irregularities, with the exception of certain cases including infringements of Article 54 (2) of the Act. This article prohibits magistrates, notaries, bailiffs and members of the police services from accessing the gaming halls of class I and II and participation in certain games of chance outside the scope of their duties. As you rightly point out, the redirection letter provides that prosecution is to be brought if a police officer violates Article 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. The ratio is that the credibility of the action of the law enforcement on gambling must be preserved. The Attorney General of Brussels informed me that he will consult with the Gaming Commission to determine whether the 59 files of police officers who would have participated in online gambling in 2017 fall within the scope of these criminal policy directives. I asked the Attorney General of Brussels to keep me informed of the outcome of these consultations. As far as your questions about figures are concerned, I regret to inform you that I cannot obtain figures in the context of an oral question. The Rules of Procedure are strict in that regard. La Dernière Heure's report on the number of cases in 2018 could not be confirmed by the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u10	Minister, I think this is an important answer. Through the Attorney General, it is necessary to examine the extent to which these cases fall within the scope of the letter. I'm looking forward to the results. I will follow this up further and, if necessary, ask a follow-up question. As regards your reply with reference to the Rules of Procedure, I am also aware of these Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure provide that we cannot simply request figures. This is not a question of purely or mainly numerical material, but rather of figures in the context of a problem, because these figures can be used to estimate the weight or frequency of something. I believe that I asked for these figures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because my question was not just about obtaining those figures. After all, my question fits in with a general problem. I therefore believe that the Rules of Procedure allow me to do so. I am, by the way, a person who normally adheres strictly to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. I will come back to my last question about what appeared in La Dernière Heure. It is true that there is no confirmation of this. Maybe we need a little more time. Maybe I'll come back to that as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u11	Madam President, Minister, on September 14, the daily newspapers De Tijd and Lecho revealed that a former state security officer had filed a complaint with the federal police in April about alleged corruption committed by Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders. These statements had been transferred to the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, which opened a judicial investigation. The question arose as to whether the file would then be forwarded to the Office of the Attorney-General, who would be able to handle cases involving ministers in office. On 28 September, still in the press, it was reported that the file was closed. "The timing of this ranking without follow-up obviously benefits Didier Reynders, who is due to be heard this Wednesday, October 2nd before the parliamentary committees of Justice and Civil Liberties, in order to confirm his future status as European Commissioner of Justice". This timing does pose a question. It is difficult not to see the intention to launder the minister before his hearing in the European Parliament. Minister, I would ask you to clarify this procedure. It is not possible here to invoke a duty of reservation with regard to a personal file. The question does not concern Mr Reynders' personal file; it is whether, on the basis of political considerations or other pressures, the prosecutor's office would have speeded up the proceedings because he was a member of the government and a future European Commissioner. Minister, did you intervene in this procedure? If so, how? Have you had any exchanges with members of the public prosecutor's office about this case? If so, what was the content? To your knowledge, have any other members of the government or persons acting for them had discussions with members of the public prosecutor's office regarding the timing of the proceedings? Are you going to investigate whether the procedure followed, including its timing, was carried out in a normal manner, without being polluted by political or other pressures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u12	Mr President, Mr Boukili, before answering your questions, I quote the answer I received from the Brussels Prosecutor General to whom I transferred your oral question: "With reference to your request of 30 September 2019, I can inform you that the Public Prosecutor's Office had no contact with members of the government regarding the file referred to in the question. The lawyer of Mr Reynders, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and Defence, had contacts with the Prosecutor of the King of Brussels in connection with a request to consult the information file on the basis of Article 21bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation." I can therefore confirm that neither I nor other members of the government have intervened in this procedure. It goes without saying that my office was informed by the Brussels Attorney General on 14 September 2019 of the existence of a complaint confirming the leak in the press. Similarly, my firm was informed after Mr. Reynders' lawyer on September 27, 2019, when the complaint was filed without further action. Finally, I can answer the following with regard to your last question: this is a criminal case that has been dealt with independently by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. As Minister of Justice, I do not have the power to exercise control over the procedure followed or the investigative acts and decisions taken. Article 151 of the Constitution is clear: the Public Prosecutor's Office is independent in the conduct of individual investigations and prosecutions, without prejudice to the right of the competent minister to order prosecution and to issue binding criminal policy directives, including on research and prosecution policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is just a little surprising that the laundering of Mr Reynders, who is involved in several cases (the Libyan funds, Kazakhgate, to name but a few) coincides exactly with the time when he must be heard in the European Parliament. We would have liked a more proactive action to shed light on this issue because it gives this image of justice which is not quite the same for everyone and which launders a minister because he is going to be promoted at European level. This is an amazing situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u14	Minister, when you were questioned on September 25 in the Justice Committee, you said that "although the legislator has not foreseen any mandatory publication of all criminal transactions concluded, the College of Attorneys General has promised to prepare periodic reports on the extended criminal transactions that have been concluded." Therefore, Minister, on the basis of these periodic reports, I would like you to respond specifically. Since the law of 18 March 2018, published in the Belgian Moniteur on 2 May 2018, has allowed the resumption of extended criminal transactions, how many criminal transactions have been granted in full and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 1 million have been granted and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 10 million have been granted and for what total amount? How many transactions over EUR 50 million have been granted and for what total amount? I now ask my second question. On 25 September, to a parliamentary question about whether Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation was in line with the provisions of Constitutional Court Decision No. 83/2016, you replied that the legislator did not consider it appropriate to further reduce the formal scope of Article 216bis. However, you failed to specify that, on May 24, 2018, you had adopted Circular COL. 08/2018 in consultation with the College of Attorneys General. It contains guidelines on the application of Article 216a on criminal transaction, in particular the consideration of certain criteria which may render it inappropriate. On page 14, in point i "criteria for excluding the use of a transaction", reference is made to "the seriousness of the facts". Whether or not your directives are taken into account by the administration will have to be clearly reflected in the formal rationale for its decision. The public prosecutor's office is under your exclusive and direct authority. If, as in the HSBC case, organising more than 1000 fraud cases in Belgium alone is not "serious", then we wonder what can still be. Beyond this case, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How do you control the motivation of your administration's decisions? How is the concept of "gravity", to which you refer, defined in the above circular? What are the elements that are appreciated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u15	Mr Boukili, I would like to refer you to my answer given at last Thursday's plenary session. As part of an oral question, I cannot ask for statistical data because of the workload this would entail for analysts. The Rules of the Chamber are intransigent in this regard. However, as I have already communicated, the College of Attorneys General has promised me to provide, by the end of the year, a statistical overview of the expanded criminal transactions that were concluded in 2018. The previous report dates from 2017. With regard to your question about the assessment of the seriousness of the facts, it is clear that my administration does not intervene in any way in this trial. The assessment of the seriousness of the facts and of whether or not to consider a criminal transaction is a matter for the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as does the latter judge whether criminal proceedings are appropriate on the basis of facts and concrete elements of the case. The Minister of Justice has no control over the individual adjudication of cases. This would undermine the principle of separation of powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u16	Minister, it is precisely for the sake of separation of powers that I ask this question. The fairest and most correct would be that these cases go to court, which is an independent department of political power. The separation of powers would then be guaranteed. In fact, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office are under your authority. You have pointed out in articles that I have quoted that you have this authority and that you can exercise it. In particular, in order to complete an investigation and ensure the independence of the judiciary, it would be best for such cases to go to justice, to be handled by a judge and in a public trial. That would be the best way to guarantee the independence of justice. Until proven otherwise, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office are under your authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u17	Minister, the criminal transaction in the Moreau case gives rise to strong public outrage because of the alleged misappropriation of large-scale misappropriation of public property. Beyond the Moreau case, this raises the question of criminal transactions granted in such cases. The joint circular COL. 08/2018, which you adopted with the College of Attorneys General on 25 May 2018, sets out guidelines for harmonising the application of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation on the termination of public proceedings by paying a sum of money. This circular undeniably attests to your involvement and responsibility in the application of the extended criminal transaction. In the same way that you have signed the above-mentioned guidelines with the Attorney General, you may wish to adopt guidelines to exclude criminal transactions where there are significant diversions of public property. In a case such as Stéphane Moreau's, it is important that a public trial be able to shed light on a case that directly affects the population. Minister, are you ready to do this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u18	Madam President, Mr Boukili, first of all, I would like to refer you to my answer given at last Thursday's plenary session. As a result of legislative changes during the previous legislature, criminal policy directives in this area have been adapted. A joint directive COL. 08/2018 replaced the old directives and drew a distinction between the offences listed in Annex 3 of this COL and other offences that are not explicitly excluded for the purpose of concluding a criminal transaction. For the first category, the magistrate is systematically considering the possibility of resorting to a criminal transaction. For the second category, a reasoned report should be drawn up for the attention of the Attorney General, as soon as the offence demonstrates a sensitive aspect in the eyes of society. Serious offences involving the misappropriation of public property are concerned. In this case, the opportunity to conclude a criminal transaction is weighed by the hierarchy within the Public Prosecutor's Office. To adopt a general directive establishing that every offence relating to the misappropriation of public property must always be excluded regardless of the scope or context in which the offence was committed seems to me disproportionate to other serious offences and would be contrary to the will of the legislator. If the legislator considers that certain specific offences should always be excluded, it seems to me desirable to provide for this in the law. But so far, this has not been the case, and the legislator has chosen to limit the material scope of application to acts for which the prosecutor considers that they are not punishable, as a principal penalty, by imprisonment for more than two years. I will not comment on the content or the seriousness of the individual cases you are referring to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u19	Madam President, Minister, here we are faced with a case that suggests to the public that there is a two-tiered justice. Indeed, people who are supposed to set an example, such as Mr. Moreau in this case, or political representatives, manage to get away with it through a criminal transaction when they commit certain acts. Just for the example that one would like to give to the public, it would be necessary to shed light on this case and to have a public trial held. You have the power to do so, minister, in accordance with the circular I have quoted. Would that not be an important signal to the population? Do not leave people unpunished, regardless of their status, and show that our justice is the same for everyone. Denying two-speed justice: justice for "normal" people and justice for white collars. In any case, it gives an image and creates an atmosphere that is not a good augury in public opinion. Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u20	Mrs Jadin is not here and we have not heard from her. Consequently, its question No 1 lapses. 55000708C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u21	Mr Minister, this was a written question that had been tabled a while ago, but because it was not answered in time, I was obliged to submit it orally. There is legal uncertainty as to the scope of parliamentary immunity. The result is the criminal investigation against and the formal suspicion of Member Dries Van Langenhove. According to the court, there is no parliamentary immunity in the case of Van Langenhove, since he was ordinary citizens at the time the investigation was initiated. Reference is made to Article 59 of the Constitution and to the circular COL 6/97 of the College of Attorneys General to support this. If I am not mistaken, this letter was supplemented by a collective letter from the Attorney General dated 24 April 1999 and by an additional letter from COL 15/2006, but the communication of the Ghent Public Prosecutor apparently caused confusion. Not everyone agrees with that interpretation of the parquet. For example, according to specialists, the 1997 law on parliamentary immunity would still require Parliament to authorise an arrest or referral to a court of law, the so-called waiver of immunity. If this is not the case, parliamentary immunity could be too easily bypassed. In order to avoid procedural errors and a possible violation of the Constitution, it is essential to clarify this. Hence the following questions. Firstly, is the waiver of immunity in your view necessary or not for an arrest or referral to a court when an investigation was initiated before the swearing-in as a Member of Parliament? Why is that, or why not? If not, is there no danger in your view of a circumvention of parliamentary immunity? If so, how do you intend to proceed? If so, should the new letter not clarify this? Secondly, does the College of Attorney General share that view? Apparently, there's a difference between what the Attorney General has determined in a letter and what others think. If not, how do you wish to reconcile both points of view? Thirdly, can Article 59 of the Constitution be interpreted in such a way that all investigations against a person who was not yet a Member of the European Parliament remain valid and that the ongoing investigation can be carried out in full after that person has become a Member of the European Parliament, if necessary on condition that the first President of the Court of Appeal is authorised to take enforcement measures, but that a reference to the court at the end of the criminal investigation cannot be carried out, in so far as sufficient objections can be prevented, then after the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of that person?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u22	Mr Van Hecke, your question about whether or not to waive the parliamentary immunity of a fellow Member is an individual matter. As Minister of Justice, I cannot judge on the further conduct of this criminal case and on the concrete steps and decisions that judicial authorities should take on the basis, inter alia, of Article 59 of the Constitution. Since you are also asking for the opinion of the College of Attorney General, I have questioned the President. He informed me that, having regard to some of the doctrines of law different from COL 6/97, the competent Attorney General would in this case apply to the Chamber for leave in the interests of safety in the event of a serious reference to the court in the main proceedings. In addition, the College of Attorneys General has decided to set up a working group to evaluate and, if necessary, rewrite the existing COL. In this context, it will contact the legislative chambers in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u23	Minister, it was certainly not your intention to make a statement on the specific case. The three questions weren't about that either. However, there was a discussion about whether or not the COL in question complies with the Constitution, because there are problems of interpretation, including the doctrine of justice. It is indeed advisable and appropriate, as you said, to examine in detail whether the COL should be adapted and refined on the basis of various opinions and opinions. You also said that leave will be requested from the Chamber if further steps are taken. That will probably be the safest way to avoid problems later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u24	Question No 55000718C by Mrs Sophie De Wit has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u25	Minister, the Flemish government agreement presented this Monday by the three coalition parties, including yours, announces the establishment of a Flemish Ministry of Justice and Enforcement. The latter will supervise the execution of sentences and fight "within its powers" against organized crime and criminality (trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking, money laundering, financial crime, cybercrime, terrorism). According to the agreement, the "effective and effective implementation" of this fight is "a top priority without lengthy procedures." This is a point in the electoral agenda of the N-VA, but also of your party, the CD&V, which already in 2007 provided that security and justice should be organized by federated entities, like other federal states, but also that a federal framework law and cooperation agreements could already allow partial regionalization of justice and security. This partial regionalisation has already been undertaken through the fifth and sixth reforms of the State. However, we are concerned that, through the creation of a Ministry of Justice and its execution, in addition to the symbolic use of the term "Justice" - which seems to me to be perfectly inappropriate - a Region detrict of the parts of federal jurisdiction in matters of justice, a fortiori outside of a state reform or a cooperation agreement. Therefore, Minister, can you tell me to what extent you have been involved in the establishment of this Flemish Ministry of Justice? How can you guarantee that this function will not interfere with yours? Do you recognize that the announcement of a regional Department of Justice is an additional and significant step towards the regionalization of our justice system? Are you in favour of it? If so, why? Do you also agree that, with this announcement, the new Flemish regional government is critical of the results of your policy in terms of fighting the backlog? Finally, can you tell me when the Interdepartmental Conference on Sentences and Measures will be convened, which is responsible for drawing up common positions in this area under the auspices of the SPF Justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u26	Mrs Rohonyi, the federated entities have already held judicial and prison powers since the sixth reform of the State. In this context, in my capacity as Federal Minister of Justice, I have met frequently with regional and community ministers responsible for matters related to justice, such as the Houses of Justice, electronic oversight, and assistance and services to inmates. These consultations were held at inter-ministerial conferences, but also during meetings of the College of Attorneys-General held under my chairmanship with the relevant ministers. The fact that Flanders now has an appointed Minister of Justice means that these consultations and cooperation will continue. Justice policy has everything to gain from the fullest possible collaboration at all levels. Therefore, an interdepartmental conference with the new ministers of the federated entities could take place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u27	Minister, I understand that the purpose of this new ministry is to insist on consultation with the federated entities. But, as you explained yourself, this concertation already existed. I therefore do not see how much added value this ministry would bring, if not, as I have said, to bring about a rather worrying symbolism since the government agreement makes it clear that the area of justice is a Flemish regional competence in its own right. I'm still worried. The other Communities speak, for example, of a Minister for Youth Aid in charge of the Houses of Justice but do not use the term justice. For me, an ideological choice was made by the new Flemish regional government. Minister, I really call on you, and your successor, to ensure that this minister does not encroach on the powers of the federal Minister of Justice and, above all, to ensure that the Department of Justice is properly re-funded. It is essential, because that is what will ensure that all victims, all litigants, are treated on an equal footing, regardless of their region. I have no desire that, under the guise of under-financing of justice, the confederates of this country should finally be given arguments aimed at saying to them: "This country no longer works. Federal justice is no longer working. Let us therefore make it work better at regional level." This would be a very bad signal for a matter which, in my view, must remain federal since it is a regal matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u28	Madam President, Minister, in Belgium, since 2017, 97 femicides have been identified, 19 of which in 2019 alone. Who is currently conducting this census? Civil society, associations active in the fight against violence against women. Indeed, Belgium does not have official figures on femicides, the murders of women that are committed because they are women. Yet we ratified the Istanbul Convention in 2016. This Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence requires us to lift the veil on this reality so that it is no longer trivialised and tolerated. However, Belgium is one of the six signatory states out of the 47 that still does not provide official data on these murders. Minister, could you please tell me why you are not complying with this international obligation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u29	Mrs Schlitz, Madam President, thank you. Article 11 of the Istanbul Convention requires Member States to collect the relevant disaggregated statistical data, at regular intervals, on cases relating to all forms of violence covered by the scope of the Convention. However, neither the public prosecutor's database nor the Central Judicial Case currently provide reliable generation statistics for victims. The statistics of prosecutors and convictions are not yet available for this purpose. However, priority has been given in recent years to the cross-cutting development of Mach in order to be able to make the annual statistics of the Public Prosecutor's Office available again. Statistical analysts at the Public Prosecutor's Office are able to provide statistics on domestic violence and violence between partners. To this end, a "specific context" field is maintained following the directives of the College of Prosecutors General. He will look at how to optimize visualisation at the level of the public prosecutor's office and will also explain this point during the next visit of the Council of Europe's GREVIO to our country. Thank you, Mrs Schlitz, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic020x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, you still have the will to bring yourself into line with this obligation. That's good news. It's a shame we had to wait that long. I hope that the necessary resources, including financial resources, will be implemented. One never fights a problem as well as when it is properly defined and identified. To that end, statistics are really needed. Thank you.
