ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u1	Mr Minister, almost two years ago, on 24 February 2017, the KB was issued, which finally gave concrete substance to functional bilingualism for senior officials and management positions. The Royal Decree, which entered into force on 1 May 2017, aims to ensure that the persons concerned provide, by 1 November of this year at the latest, proof of functional language knowledge in order to carry out their mandate. In the absence thereof, according to KB, their mandate shall end and they shall be reimbursed for termination. This would mean that a language knowledge already prescribed by law 17 years earlier would finally have to be achieved in practice. In the meantime, the deadline of 1 November 2019 has already expired for a month and a half. Hence my question about a state of affairs. Despite the fact that the language knowledge requirements imposed by the RB are already very minimal and the stakeholders were given a transitional period of 2.5 years to meet them, there is a rumor that several senior officials and managers would still not comply with that obligation. Mr Minister, first of all, how many officials were still required to obtain their certificate on functional knowledge Evaluation when issuing the Royal Decree? How many of them do they currently not meet? Can you get me those data by language group? Secondly, I have the same question for officials who have to obtain a certificate of functional knowledge, unity in justice. Thirdly, I also have the same question for management functions. Fourthly, what happens to those who did not meet the conditions of the Royal Decree on 1 November? Have they immediately lost their mandate? What were the concrete consequences for them: nude dismissal or reduction in a lower position? Is there, after all, an extension of the mandate of the person concerned? If so, how can we achieve this legally, given that the government is in current business and cannot change decisions taken earlier? Fifthly, what is the extent of the termination fee for those who failed to meet on 1 November for each of the various categories referred to in the Royal Decree? What total amount is foreseen for this purpose? Finally, how does it intend to fill the gaps which may arise in the administration by the discharge of those who do not meet the conditions of the CFI, given that the government is in current cases? Will that happen temporarily, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u2	Ms Pas, all staff of the federal administrations who evaluate staff in the other language role must be functionally bilingual. This is determined by the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017 implementing Article 43b, Paragraph 7 of the Laws on the use of languages in administrative matters, coordinated on 18 July 1966. Any person who fails to comply with the language requirement and is also the holder of a mandate shall be dismissed as a sanction. Thirty months after the entry into force of the Royal Decree, the situation is as follows. In the central services of the federal administrations there are 1,843 staff who evaluate staff from the other language roles. As of 1 November 2019, more than 800 of the 1,843 staff covered by the Royal Decree of 24 February 2017 had a language certificate allowing them to evaluate colleagues of the other language role. More specifically, 613 Dutch speakers and 229 French speakers. This also means that all those who do not have the language certificate should be replaced by evaluators who do meet the language requirements as long as they do not succeed in their role as evaluator. In addition, 99 officials, excluding mandate holders, obtained the language certificate for functional knowledge, unity in case law, Article 11a. Of these, 52 were Dutch speakers and 47 were French speakers. In addition to mandate holders, the language certificate must also be obtained by officials who are evaluators, but who are also in charge of a legal service. However, my administration does not have the information on the number of officials responsible for legal services per department. Consequently, I cannot communicate to you the number and share of those responsible for the legal services which are in good linguistic order in relation to the function performed. Third, on the entry into force of the Royal Decree on 1 May 2017, 71 mandate holders had 30 months to comply with the language requirements. Of those 71, 17 had to obtain only the language certificate referred to in Article 10a. The 54 others also had to obtain the certificate referred to in Article 11a. As of 1 November 2019, only four out of 71 mandate holders did not have the required language certificate: three French speakers and one Dutch speaker. I would point out that, except for all mandate holders appointed to the federal administration after the entry into force of the decision, all required language certificates were obtained within six months of their entry into service. Fourthly, officials should not evaluate staff in the other language role until they have the language certificate. In the meantime, they should be replaced by evaluators who do meet the language requirements. That rule should also apply to mandate holders who are evaluators. As regards mandate holders in particular, the rules also provide that where they do not have the required language certificates within the prescribed period, the mandate ends automatically. In concrete terms, the mandate ended on 1 November for three of them. For one of the three, the end of the mandate coincided with retirement. A second had a statutory relationship with a federal administration, for which he had leave for a contract of general interest. So he got that job back. The third had no appointment in the federal administration, so he left the administration. For the fourth person who failed on 1 November 2019, as he was absent due to illness for a longer period of time, the period during which he was required to obtain the language certificate was extended for the duration of his absence. The government's wish was indeed always to give the mandate holders an effective period of 30 months in order to obtain the language certificate. Fifth, for three mandate holders, the mandate ended on 1 November 2019. On the basis of a certificate of honour, one mandate holder indicated that he had no other occupational income or retirement pensions. Therefore, according to the rules, a dismissal allowance equal to twice the amount of his last month's wager must be paid to him. Sixthly, the KB on the basis of which the mandate holders have been removed from office is ready. In the present circumstances, the government has the sole option of appointing ad interim mandate holders, for example after retirement or non-extendance of the mandate. However, individuals who already exercise a different mandate and statutory authorised officials appointed in the highest grades of the federal government may still be appointed. I am fully aware that the appointment is ad interim delicate for the optimal functioning of the departments. But it is not possible for a government in current cases to appoint mandate holders, except in sufficiently justified, very urgent cases. It is up to the next government to fill the gap by naming the laureates of the selections on the currently open positions as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answer. I'll reread all the figures. Did I understand correctly, on the first question, that of the 1,843 officials only half after the first thirty months got well? Is it true that all these evaluators need to be replaced by people who do have the right certificate? I think it is a striking result that, after a very large transitional period of 30 months, not half of it has been put in order. I will follow up on that first point in particular. You refer to initiatives that the next government can take in this respect. That may take some time to come. In the meantime, we will continue to follow the issue closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u4	First of all, Mr. Clarinval, congratulations on your new duties. I wish you every success even if the future is uncertain. My first question concerns measures at work in the event of winter temperatures. The winter is there, we know that temperatures are sometimes particularly low. Workers and employees may be prevented from performing their duties under acceptable conditions. Indeed, it is the General Labour Protection Regulations (GWP) which provide the rules to be observed by the employer when temperatures reach a threshold below which it is prohibited to work. These rules, which also apply to federal public servants and their services, are naturally adapted to the type of activity, including whether it takes place indoors or outdoors, and to the extent to which physical effort is required. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What measures are being taken within the public service to implement or anticipate the obligations set out in the law? Could you please inform me if any initiatives have been taken to reduce the inconveniences of the cold by ensuring that federal officials occupy sufficiently heated premises? If so, which ones? If not, why not? Have some public services been closed since the beginning of this period because the premises could not be sufficiently heated? If so, which ones and with what consequences for service to the public? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u5	Mr Kir, thank you first of all for your very friendly message. Now I'll answer your questions. The Labour Welfare Code is applicable to federal public service employees and their employers. It is therefore the responsibility of each public employer, based on the risk analysis, to take the necessary measures to ensure the safety and well-being of staff. For example, it may be the adaptation of working time and, for the reduction of exposure to cold, the provision of individual or collective protections or the delivery of appropriate hot drinks at no cost to the worker. According to my information, large-scale measurements have not yet been taken in view of the relatively mild temperatures of this autumn and early winter. For the rest, I am not aware of any specific provisions that would have been announced or taken in view of the cold days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u6	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, the subject I want to address is the absenteeism of federal public servants. The press recently reported that the rate of federal public service absenteeism for 2018 is 6.58%, an increase of almost 0.5%, based on a study by Medex, the agency in charge of monitoring the absenteeism of our federal public servants. After a slight improvement in 2017, the absenteeism of federal public servants went up again. As a result, it was 5.5 per cent in 2012. Two thirds of federal public servants fell ill in 2018. Nevertheless, it would be wrong to point the finger at officials. The phenomenon, it seems to me, is global. The increase in absenteeism is also observed in the private sector: 7.07 % absenteeism according to Securex and 5.81% according to SDWorx – figures that do not take into account absences of more than one year. Civil servants are on average more often absent, but they are less absent than in the private sector. I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you first confirm these figures in the press regarding the absenteeism rate of federal public servants? If so, how do you assess these figures with your administration? What are the causes of this relatively high number? What do you think are the consequences of this high result? Will this impact, among other things, on overall productivity in our country? Finally, can you specify, depending on your area of competence, the concrete measures needed to solve this problem? Do you have a comprehensive and integrated plan to combat this problem? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u7	Mr. Chair, Member of Parliament, Medex publishes an annual study on absenteeism in federal administrations. The figures collected in this framework have not yet been discussed. Therefore, we confirm them a priori. For my part, I note that the percentage of public servants who were not absent in 2018 is increasing – which is good news. This percentage increased from 32.46 per cent in 2016 to 32.80 per cent in 2017, and to 33.10 per cent in 2018. The percentage of absences over 21 days is decreasing from 6.3% in 2017 to 6.1% in 2018. The average number of absences remains substantially the same: 2.1 days per year in 2018; 2 in 2017, 2.1 in 2016. It's stable. Just like the average duration, due to the absence of a federal public servant, with 7.6 days in 2018 and 7.4 days in 2017. This average duration is lower than that of the private sector, set at 16 days in 2018. These figures show that the government's policy of absenteeism in the last legislature was the right one. In particular, mention should be made of the investment in greater flexibility within the administration, which has extended the possibility of teleworking through the introduction of satellite office work or longer periods of teleworking. Staff can also work closer to home if they suffer from health problems. I note, however, that after falling in 2017, the rate of absenteeism is starting to rise again in 2018, as is the case in the private sector. This shows that we need to do more. The amendment of the statutes of federal public servants, with a view to the reintegration of a sick staff member, by increasing the collaboration of the various services, and by providing support to the individual, should have been one of these measures aimed at facilitating the return of sick staff when, of course, the situation permits. Unfortunately, day-to-day business has resulted in this regulatory proposal not being able to succeed. It will therefore be up to the next minister of the public service, obviously in consultation with the unions, to decide whether he is taking this project back on his own.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u8	Minister, as you said, consultation with the unions remains essential. It is in this way that reform projects can be carried out in the public service. You talked about two projects on flexibility, including addressing the topic of satellite office work – the subject of my next question – and telework. So these are important arrangements in your eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u9	Minister, satellite office work is not telework as one might think: it consists of working in a place other than the usual place of work. It may be a place of work of your own organisation or of a different organisation, but often in another city or municipality. Unlike telework, where you work at home. Since 2 December, the Régie des Bâtiments has made available three workstations for work in a satellite office at its central office, located on Avenue de la Toison d'Or in Brussels. Public servants who work for one of the participating federal public services will be able to use them. It is actually three "boxes" equipped with power outlets and an internet connection in an open workspace. A coffee corner is also provided, providing free coffee and water. After the WTC III, the Régie is already the second building in Brussels that houses a satellite office for federal public servants. Could you provide us with a more complete list of jurisdictions for which this type of initiative is being used? Is satellite office work an economy for services? Do you have any figures on this? Is there a study in this area? If so, what was the result? If not, do you consider it useful for such a study to be conducted to verify the merits of these projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u10	Mr President, I can confirm that satellite offices have been opened in Brussels within these two buildings, namely the headquarters of the Régie des Bâtiments à la Toison d'Or and the WTC III in the North Quarter. To date, according to our information and on time, 28 satellite offices exist throughout Belgium. I agree with you that we have been very fast in order to be able to answer, we may not have an exhaustive list. There are 18 offices at the FPS Finance Building, 4 at the Régie des Bâtiments, 2 at the FPS Economy, 2 at the FPS Mobility, 1 at the FPS Public Health and 1 at the FPS Strategy and Support. In the current philosophy, the purpose of satellite offices is not to save money by occupying less office space, but rather to provide an alternative for federal public servants, in addition to the possibility already offered to telework. So that's a plus. The real economy in the area of office space is the introduction of new working methods, called "NWOW" (new way of working). It's not easy to say, but we'll find another more sexy term. That is why the outgoing government encouraged its administrations to make use of NWOW-type facilities, as was recently the case in the SPF's single headquarters Strategy and Support, which I share with my colleague Philippe De Backer. I come out of my text to tell you that I have personally visited these NWOW developments. It's beautiful. The acronym means new way of working. I find this philosophy very interesting. I had the opportunity to visit the offices of BOSA. There is certainly a way to save money, as less space is being used. However, the way things are organized is much more user-friendly, more enjoyable. The people I met all seemed very satisfied with me. At first, fear of change manifests itself, but once this system is in place, it brings many reasons for satisfaction. This policy should be stepped up in the years to come, but I am a little out of my role in day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u11	I'll react to your last element. The administrations, as part of their modernisation, must transfer. At the municipal level, historic windows should gradually be replaced, when resources and possibilities exist, by offices, as you have indicated. Some municipalities already do. In my commune, this has already been achieved in a new building. Initially, there were many reservations, but upon arrival, staff were very happy to be able to work with more comfort, both for front-line reception of the population, and to conduct more private interviews with offices. I note that results are already being recorded in satellite office work, which proves that, as you have pointed out, an alternative is being offered. Mr Minister, I imagine that there is also a desire to promote proximity and to be close to the places we invest, the projects that we carry out according to the different departments. I also heard that there was no desire for economy. I would like to draw attention to the appropriation of the workplace and work comfort. It is of course necessary to ensure that this type of place, like the usual places, can offer good working conditions. In order to obtain a good public service, working conditions must be optimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u12	Mr President, I have not done so on purpose, but it turns out that every conclusion makes it possible to follow up on the next question. Mr Minister, the seventh Eurofound European survey, scheduled for 2020, on working conditions has drawn my attention. Since its launch in 1990, the European Survey on Working Conditions has provided an overview to assess and quantify in a harmonised way the working conditions of employees and self-employed people in Europe; identify risk groups and sources of concern, as well as progress made; contribute to the development of European policy, in particular as regards the quality of work and employment. To date, Eurofound has conducted six European surveys between 1991 and 2015. This seventh survey will be conducted among workers in the European Union, but also in Norway, Switzerland, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey. On the basis of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. To what extent can these European surveys on working conditions be used by employers in the public sector in real-life situations? What are the results of the solutions envisaged in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u13	Mr President, these surveys are certainly interesting, and some figures could be compared with those in the public sector, particularly with regard to absenteeism, since they could be compared with those published by Medex, which we have just mentioned. However, caution should be exercised, as the surveys involve very different sectors. This raises some questions as to the relevance of a possible comparison and the scope that can be given to it. For the public sector, my administration argues that a report such as the "Panoramic of Public Administrations", published by the OECD, could provide a more interesting basis for comparison and a more appropriate reference than the one you refer to. The sixth edition of this report was published on 12 December. In short, we believe that this study is more relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u14	Minister, thank you for the additional information. It is obvious that apples and pears cannot be compared and therefore sectors which are not comparable. You tell me about the recent publication of the last "Panorama of Public Administrations". I suggest that you speak about it again after consideration of this report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u15	Minister, many federal and local governments are interested in telework. This issue is of concern to both managers and trade unions and workers. On 16 February 2017, the International Labour Organisation and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound) published a joint report on the advantages and disadvantages of teleworking. Named "Working at any time, anywhere: the effects on the world of work", he looked at the impact of digital technologies used at home on the health of workers in 15 countries, including 10 EU Member States. According to Oscar Vargas, co-author of the Eurofound report, telework and mobile work through digital technologies have both positive and negative effects. Positive effects include reduced travel time, increased autonomy in the management of working time, better work-life balance and increased productivity. The report also identifies several disadvantages, such as a tendency to work longer and an overlap between paid work and personal life – which can lead to high levels of stress. 82% of homeworkers suffer from insomnia, compared to 29% of those who visit the office every day. Minister, have you read this report? If so, can you give us your opinion on the positive and negative effects of telework? Could this issue lead to concrete actions, projects or political initiatives? Could you provide an overview of federal public servants working in telework by CPS and/or administrations? Has the potential savings achieved at the federal service, establishment or organization level through telework already been assessed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u16	Mr Kir, the positive and negative effects of telework mentioned in this ILO and Eurofound report are already known by my administration. They have been given special attention within the sharing community and good practices that have been created within my administration – such as the CoP NWOW that was mentioned earlier – with the aim of sharing knowledge and experiences in teleworking within and outside the federal authority. In this way, she pointed out that in order to make telework a success, it is important to take account of three axes. First, the working environment must be adequate. Teleworkers must have a suitable workplace, either at home or in a satellite office, taking into account a number of ergonomic principles. Secondly, an adequate IT infrastructure must be put in place: teleworkers must have the tools to work remotely. They must also be able to use these tools effectively. Finally, the culture of the organization must give responsibility to the teleworker. Leadership control needs to be replaced by self-reliance and results-based work. Leaders need to learn how to run from a distance. In addition to this community, this new way of working has been taken into account in the catalogue of training available to federal public servants. For example, remote management has been integrated into management training. As Minister of the Public Service, I am in favour of all measures that provide more flexibility to staff members. This is an important factor in attracting new and young employees and encouraging those already in place to stay. Following your second question, I will give you a very interesting table providing, by department, from 2014 to 2018, the percentage of teleworkers. Some departments have barely 20 per cent of the staff involved, while others are close to 90 per cent. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u17	Minister, can you quote them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u18	[[For example, Home Affairs reached 17% in 2018.]] The Bank Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale is 91 per cent. The differential is huge. Defence is 8%. I leave it to you to analyze this information. There are, of course, explanations. That's interesting. On the third question, I refer to the answer given a few minutes ago with regard to the use of satellite offices. In the current philosophy, the primary goal of telework is the introduction of new working methods that improve the well-being of the worker, not the search for savings. As regards the end of the third question, it should be addressed to my colleague from the Régie des Bâtiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. The figures deserve an analysis, which may be the subject of new questions to try to deepen the matter a little bit. It is new and I believe it is of interest to all workers. These new ways of working initially arouse some apprehension, but then people become emancipated and happy. On the other hand, there are disadvantages. One can contribute to a better reconciliation of private and professional life while providing a better service, but this can pose the problem of being connected to one's work all the time. I'm thinking about mobile work. There is telework, but mobile work is the fact that you always answer with your phone. I'm not gonna say night and day. But I think in our lives, today, we all have a disconnection problem. More and more of us are not moving without a mobile phone. We have a real problem. The problem of insomnia is widespread in our society. In the responsibility of leading administrations, we must ensure that we find solutions to ensure a quality public service. This issue of disconnection is essential. It must also deserve a reflection on your part. I imagine you attach particular importance to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u20	I agree with you about the right to disconnect. More flexibility is needed, but the right to disconnect must also be allowed in order not to increase pressure on certain workers and related problems. I share your philosophy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u21	I propose to come back after the new year on this issue in order to deepen. Maybe you'll be a minister again. I'll have the opportunity to ask you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-18-55-commissie-ic080x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Senesael's 55001021C was converted into a written question.
