ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u1	Madam President, Madam Minister, most of us have already passed into the hands of a hairdresser. Women have already seen this: they often pay twice the price for this service compared to men. Most hairdressing salons distinguish between men and women when setting the price for a cut. It is therefore the type of consumer that determines the final amount. Fifteen years ago, on 13 December 2004, the European Union issued a directive for consumer protection, stipulating that goods and services must be equal for men and women. It specifically mentions the hairdressing sector and specifies that it is not permissible to set different rates for men and women. At present, there is a question about equality in the hairdressing sector. Women sometimes pay twice the price imposed on men. Women therefore have to spend thousands of extra euros to get their hair cut during their lifetime, without having spent more time with the hairdresser. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men also believes that this should not be allowed. These practices also run counter to the Belgian gender law. It is quite possible to set tariffs in such a way that they do not produce any gender discrimination by, for example, charging the hairdresser for working time, rather than setting prices for men and prices for women. Minister, could you explain why a short-haired woman should pay more than a long-haired man for a haircut? Do you intend to take action in the consumer's interest to address this gender discrimination? In your opinion, is it permissible for tariffs in Belgium to be set according to the type of consumer? Does this not run counter to the Gender Law and the European Directive of 13 December 2004? Finally, what about women asking for a male cut and what about other gender identities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u2	Mr D'Amico, I will give you an answer in Dutch because the question was introduced in Dutch. Our country has clear anti-discrimination legislation. The Gender Act prohibits discrimination based on gender or gender identity. If there is no acceptable justification for the price difference, the distinction is discriminatory. I am strongly in favour of the pricing of hairdressers per service offered, not merely on the basis of sex. Everyone must be able to get a haircut of their choice at a price related to effective working time and complexity and not to sex. The sector already concluded a collective agreement in 2004 in which it committed itself to preventing and combating any undesirable gender-based discrimination. I am therefore convinced that the sector will assume its responsibilities and work together with all the parties concerned on a constructive solution. Finally, I would also like to say that the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in Hairdressers has asked around about the price difference. We wanted to know what was going on. Several hairdressers told us that in his flat-rate calculation of hairdressing taxes, the taxis used a much more expensive treatment in women than in men. In flat-rate taxation there is a difference between men and women, and that would be the reason why the price difference between men and women still exists. I think it is a good question to ask the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u4	Madam President, Minister, in recent weeks there has been a lot of talk about violence against women. Such violence can take various forms: sexual violence, domestic violence, forced marriage, female genital mutilation, honour killings, and forced prostitution. The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention, entered into force in Belgium on 1 July 2016. This legislation provides for specific provisions for women who have come into the framework of family reunification and asylum seekers. Minister, what about the implementation of the Convention's recommendations in this context in Belgium? Are there sufficient gender-sensitive measures for women and girls seeking family reunification or asylum to ensure their protection from such violence? If so, which ones? If not, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u5	Madam President, Mr Kir, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, known as the Istanbul Convention, contains specific provisions on asylum and migration issues. The implementation of the relevant provisions is included in the State report submitted by Belgium last February on the occasion of our country's first evaluation cycle. It is published on the website of the Council of Europe. Belgium has for many years been actively involved in gender mainstreaming in asylum and migration policy. Various measures have been adopted over the past two years. I'll mention a few of them. The Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) has organized specific training to listen to gender-related violence stories for its protection officers and interpreters working for him. Internal guidelines have been issued, including on child marriage, sexual abuse or separate treatment of the case file of the member of the victimized couple and the author. The post-recognition follow-up procedure for refugee status related to female genital mutilation has been strengthened. I would also like to refer you to the current legislation on this subject, which is currently being discussed in committee in order to extend the existing protection of victims of domestic violence in the family reunification procedure to the first stage of the procedure. The Aliens Office has prepared a draft circular to inform victims of violence in the context of family reunification, as well as the various services (police, shelters) of the rights available to such victims, as well as of the procedures to be followed and the steps to be taken. In 2018, Fedasil approved a set of minimum standards for the reception of applicants for international protection. It also announced a comprehensive study on the identification and care of vulnerable persons with special needs in reception facilities, including pregnant women, young girls and single mothers, victims of gender-based violence, etc. In addition, Fedasil is currently funding the Gender Based Violence & Asylum: an integrated approach project, led by GAMS, Intact and the European Family Justice Center Alliance, throughout the host network. Other initiatives may also be mentioned. Thus, in collaboration with ICRÉ, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men supported the development and dissemination of a brochure migrant(e) and victim of domestic violence: what are my rights? The Institute has also set up an awareness-raising tool in 22 languages for victims of violence between immigrant partners, in collaboration with Ella and the Federatie van sociaal-culturale verenigingen van mensen met een migritieachtergrond (FMDO). A great many positive initiatives are being taken, although efforts still need to be made to continuously improve our policy in this area. As Federal Minister for Equal Opportunities, I am committed to ensuring equal protection for all victims of gender-based violence and I invite the next government to pay particular attention to this issue in the context of the development of the next National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u6	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you. I see that you are very sensitive to this question. I have not heard in your reply any distinction between migrant and non-migrant women. What is essential is that they are victims of violence because of their gender. I thank you for this detailed answer, which we can use in the debates we have in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u7	Question No 55001564C by Mrs Els Van Hoof is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u8	Madam Minister, already in 2012, the House's PS group tabled a motion for a resolution to make available to victims of violence what we called high-risk telephones, as is done in France or Switzerland. The rapid technological evolution has since allowed the easy and inexpensive development of applications or emergency buttons. Under the previous legislature, our proposal had received the support of Secretary of State Zuhal Demir, who also explained in his guidance note in April 2017 working on a "harassment application" with an alarm button. Pressure on the alarm button was sufficient to send an alarm signal to the emergency power stations, which were to give priority to this call by sending a patrol. Minister, since then, pilot projects have been carried out. Can you tell us where these pilot projects were conducted? What have been the results? Will this system be sustainable and thus protect those women who are in great danger? Who will be able to access this device?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u9	Dear colleague, the mobile harassment alarm is for victims to wear, wherever they are, an alarm button on which they can press when they feel threatened by the person harassing them. When a call is received, a police patrol is dispatched as soon as possible to the victim's whereabouts. The mobile stalking alarm is a fully newly developed instrument with newly developed security measures for the victim, which means that the technique must first be properly tested. A comprehensive test phase was therefore planned and is important to ensure the safety of the victim. In the technical test phase work is done with fictional victims. The development of the mobile alarm has indeed been delayed by various technical irregularities. The technical testing phase of the mobile alarm is therefore still ongoing. The daily reporting procedure is part of the latest version of the mobile alarm, which is currently being technically tested. The activity of the app is checked a certain number of times daily. Of this, a report is transmitted every 24 hours to the reference officer for intra-family violence. For example, it can monitor the victim on a continuous basis and act quickly, if there are problems with the app. It will also be accessible when victims move elsewhere in the country. They are thus guaranteed the same security throughout the country. This system is also associated with multidisciplinary consultation in order to implement victim protection through enforcement, end harassment, ensure the safety of the victim and provide assistance to all parties concerned, including the perpetrator and children. As such, a harassment alarm protocol is being developed. According to this protocol, the competent department of the city of Ghent must act as a committee to talk to the person seeking assistance and to analyse whether it is appropriate to make the harassment alarm available to him. It thus collects the necessary information on a multidisciplinary scale, in consultation with all relevant partners, in order to decide who can benefit from the alarm and when to remove it. The technical test phase is expected to be completed by mid-December, i.e. any time. The pilot project in the city of Ghent with victims will normally start this year. After a pilot phase of up to a year in the city of Ghent, the mobile stalking alarm will be rolled out nationally. This is expected in the autumn of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will pay attention to the end of the technical phase as well as to the pilot project in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u11	Since Ms Florence Reuter was absent, her question No. 55001645C became moot. Question No 55001697C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question. Since Ms. Evita Willaert was absent, her question No. 55001724C became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, on November 3, 2019, during the football match of Jupiler Pro League between Malines and Charleroi, a player from Charleroi was the victim of racist gestures and shouts by malignant supporters. On 25 November 2019, on a radio set, the president of the Standard himself, Bruno Venanzi, denounced the fact that the sanctions currently envisaged are not being applied enough only to deter the perpetrators of such acts. He also deplored the inaction of a number of players in the Belgian football world in the face of this problem, which he said was due to a lack of representativeness of the governing bodies. Racism in the Jupiler Pro League is also the most visible face of acts of racism on football grounds. According to Unia statistics, three quarters of the open files for racism in football come from amateur clubs. Minister, what are the tools and information available to sports clubs? Do you think that the various Belgian football bodies are sufficiently aware of the problem of racism and discrimination in stadiums and football fields? Do you intend to enter into a discussion with the different players in Belgian football (clubs, players, groups of supporters) in order to improve the effectiveness of the current preventive and sanction mechanisms? Since the problem of racism in football is only a reflection of latent racism in general society, do you intend to work soon in favour of the famous federal plan to combat racism promised at the beginning of the legislature, five years ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u13	Madam President, Minister, since 2001, Belgium has committed itself to drawing up an inter-federal action plan against racism, following the World Conference on Combating Racism and Racial Discrimination. Now, eighteen years later, we're not much further. Several civil society organisations and Unia have been calling for an ambitious and broad-based action plan to combat racism. Madam Secretary, what is the status of the federal action plan against racism? I know that the government is in current affairs, but can you explain what happened in the last legislature? What measures have been taken for the federal component? What other plans do you have in that connection? Is there any consultation or consultation with the regions on an inter-federal action plan against racism?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me remind you that sport is the responsibility of the Communities. It was therefore up to the latter to take the necessary measures in that regard. However, at the federal level, a subside was granted to the Pro League on December 6, 2018, with the aim of financing part of the development of a toolbox including guidance, mediation and training tools on the theme of diversity in sports clubs. This subside led to the production of a manual on discriminatory and offensive songs and speeches, which was presented by the Pro League at a seminar held on 13 November. This manual, based on the awareness of supporters who have committed discriminatory or injuring acts, proposes a preventive and repressive approach at the same time. On February 29, 2019, the Pro League also launched a "Football for All" campaign against homophobia, racism and other forms of inequality. As a body promoting equality, Unia also intervenes in concrete reports. He also brought an action, following reports of racism, against the Fédération de mini-football amateur. Football is confronted with several mediated cases of racism in European stadiums in recent weeks, reflecting the rise of racism in society in general. Some clubs take initiatives against racism such as the use of logos or banners against racism, but these initiatives are far from systematic. The development of a manual by the Pro League demonstrates an awareness on the part of the sports authorities. This is an initiative that needs to be supported. According to the Pro League Manual, cases of supporters who have racist or discriminating behaviour must lead to stage bans. Mrs Vindevoghel, various initiatives and consultations are currently under way to develop a draft inter-federal action plan against racism. We're really working on it. With a view to the approval of such a plan by the next government, my administration has already contacted the Coalition for a national plan against racism, the Communities and the Regions and several academic experts on several occasions. We have also organised a two-day workshop on the subject with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which actively involved civil society. On 21 March 2019, which was the date of the International Day against Racism, a campaign against racism was launched. It is essential that the next government really does work on the subject and finally adopts a federal plan against racism, in order to respond to the commitments that you quite rightly cite in your question and which were taken by Belgium in 2001 in Durban.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you and congratulate you on your French. It is quite interesting that my colleague and I have asked the same question today, on the inter-federal level against racism, with an emphasis on football. You say that it is a Community competence. Actually, it's both. This underscores the urgency of this interparliamentary plan against racism. I understand that some of the football is in the hands of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation or the Flemish Community. We are talking about racist incidents at the level of the Pro League. I would point out that the president of a club himself refers to the fact that sanctions are not being applied very much. I would also like to take a little higher with another level of power, the European level. There, the cases of racism were even more worrying. I encourage you – and I would ask your colleague, Minister Goffin – to launch an initiative at European level to calm down.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u16	I think UEFA has also taken initiatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u17	That's right. But despite the initiatives, racist acts do not diminish in Belgium or Europe. So I encourage you to work on it. On the other hand, in relation to the inter-federal plan, I fully understand the argument of a future government, but could we not start this work today? Let us benefit from a parliamentary work that can be constructive in launching initiatives, even if only from meetings with actors on the ground in the fight against racism. I think we can talk about a calm moment in Parliament. This can be constructive in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u18	Madam President, Minister, we are pleased to hear that progress has been made on this dossier, which has been going on for eighteen years. As the previous speaker said, it is really urgent. We must continue our parliamentary work to ensure progress. I would also like to ask you to provide sufficient resources so that we can deal with matters properly in different areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u19	Madam President, Minister, according to articles in the press recently, 55 acts of sexism in public space were recorded by the federal police last year. This seems very low, when we know that 98% of women have already been subjected to street harassment, according to the Women's Life Association. A law has existed since 2014 but, unfortunately, it is clear that, for the time being, it is not delivering the desired results. As a reminder, street harassment encompasses a broad array of acts and behaviours that range from sexist insult to attrition. Minister, what do you think about the low number of sexism incidents in the public space recorded by the police? How do you explain, beyond the fact that many women who are victims of these sexist statements or acts do not file complaints with the police? Do you intend to take steps with your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, to make changes to make this 2014 law more effective? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u20	Madam President, dear colleague, the 2014 law on the fight against sexism in public space is a law that is in its infancy and is still insufficiently known. The figures you are referring to, Mr. Prévot, which relate to recorded facts clearly show us that victims of street harassment often do not know that such behaviour can be punished and therefore do not identify themselves as victims of a crime. Moreover, the legal conditions of the law against sexism are very strict. In fact, street intimidation is often committed and witnessed by strangers. Thus, a victim rarely has an idea of the identity of witnesses or perpetrators, making possible prosecution more difficult. The question therefore arises as to whether the victim will actually file a complaint against unknown persons. This may explain the limited number of events recorded. In this context, various measures have already been taken to raise awareness of the relevant law and to encourage citizens to register the facts. In 2016, the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men prepared and distributed a brochure on the conditions and scope of the law against sexism. In 2017, a media campaign and a website on street harassment were also launched. With this campaign, the importance of the role that spectators can play when witnessing street harassment was emphasized. It is therefore not only the task of legislation, but also the task of society to give a signal and to demonstrate that street harassment is unacceptable. Local interdisciplinary engagement at different levels can be an added value, not only in terms of awareness, but also to increase the opportunity and willingness to report the fact. With regard to the handling and registration of complaints by the police, I would gladly refer you to Mr. De Crem, Minister of the Interior. The Institute informs me that I have already received some reports from citizens who have been confronted with problems of registration by the police. In order to take account of the lack of reports and the resulting difficulties, it has initiated an investigation conducted by the National Institute of Forensics and Criminology (INCC) to examine police practices in the event of reports of street harassment and the willingness of victims to report the incident. On receipt of the results of this investigation, I will analyse them with my colleagues and, of course, with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answer. This law dates back to 2014. I understood that 55 facts had been notified to the police. Victims of harassment are not sufficiently informed. You were kind enough to give me a summary of the actions undertaken. In my view, the first step would be to launch a more powerful awareness campaign to push the nail well. If the lack of information of the victims is proven, it is also the case of spectators of such scenes, who do not intervene or dare not intervene. When I referred to the collaboration with your colleague De Crem, it is obviously to make the enforcement of this 2014 law more effective. Even though this was not the central purpose of my question, it is interesting that you noted that some victims who came to file a complaint were having difficulties with the police. This situation is also encountered by women victims of violence. Front-line agents are faced with an audience when they are not sufficiently trained. They don't have the right reflexes or the right words. It seems to me that awareness-raising is necessary in this regard at the level of our police force. The fact that most of these sexist statements or acts emanate from unknowns does not make things easier, but it is true that the ease of front-line actors is to say: "If it was committed by an unknown, how do you want... Your story will be classified without follow-up." This does not encourage victims. The problem is multifactorial. As part of your skills, it would be good to activate the various levers, especially in terms of training and awareness. I will appeal to Minister De Crem to see what he intends to do to make this legislation much more effective. It must be noted, and the figures show, that too few people guilty of such acts are punished, which contributes to the normalization and perpetuation of these acts. If they were punished, they would think twice before repeating such criminal acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u22	Madam President, Madam Minister, the fight against all forms of gender-based violence is a real priority for my group. To mention just a few figures. In 2014, almost 40,000 complaints of partner violence were filed with the police. Over 16,000 cases of rape were recorded by the police between 2010 and 2014, or about 3,000 per year. About 13,000 girls and women are "very likely already excised" and about 4,000 are "potentially at risk of excision" in our country. The figures are obviously cold in the back and remain high, especially since they represent only the visible face of the iceberg. The black figure, that is to say, the incidents of unrecorded violence, remains, as you know, particularly high. Since 2001, Belgium has been implementing its policy to combat gender-based violence through a comprehensive national action plan involving the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions and coordinated by the Institute for Gender Equality. Through the latest 2015-2019 plan, Belgium committed itself to pursuing a common approach to this issue on the basis of the following six overall objectives: to pursue an integrated policy to combat gender-based violence and to collect quantitative and qualitative data on all forms of violence; to prevent violence; to protect and support victims; to investigate, pursue and adopt protective measures; to integrate the gender dimension into asylum and migration policy; and to combat violence at the international level. Minister, a new national action plan is expected to emerge very soon. Has a final evaluation of the implementation of the last plan already been carried out? If so, have some gaps or deficiencies been identified? Can you tell us how the next plan is being drafted? Has civil society been involved again? Will the fact that your government is in day-to-day business affect the timing, development and implementation of the future plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u23	Madam Secretary, my colleague's figures show the seriousness of the matter. On 24 November, with more than 10,000 people on the streets, we came against violence against women. Over the last few weeks, there have been several terrible reports in the media about feminicide: women who are often murdered by their partner or ex-partner, just because they are women. According to the Stop Feminicide action group, at least 101 women have been murdered since 2017, just because they are women. The last sad deadly message is less than two weeks old. In Assesse, in Namur, a woman was killed by her partner. The partner had a long history of familial violence and recidivism. The counter is on 22 feminicides in Belgium. Madam Secretary, there is clearly something very wrong with our approach to violence against women. We are failing dramatically in protecting women who need it. Among other things, the Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation stated that police services do not provide adequate support and often do not even know the appropriate procedure. We ourselves checked with a police station in the province of East Flanders. We called the police secretary asking, "What do you do in the event of violence against a woman?" The answer was that they did not foresee anything for this problem. There was simply no procedure or action plan. Madam Minister, I know that the police are the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior, but when are you going to work on a real action plan against violence against women? How are you going to ensure that victims receive the protection and support they need as much as possible? How do you ensure the necessary prevention so that women can go somewhere if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already discussed this very extensively at the meeting of the Advisory Committee last week. The National Action Plan 2015-2019 has made progress in many areas in the fight against gender-based violence. I would like to make the following comment. You always talk about violence against women, that's right, 90% of the victims are women. Only 10% of the victims are men. We must not forget them in the debate. We also see that young men, often under the age of 18, are very vulnerable on the basis of orientation. That is why we are always talking about gender-based violence in the action plan, because it concerns both men and women. The interim report on the implementation of this plan was prepared in April 2018 and the State report of Belgium on the implementation of the Istanbul Convention of February 2019 provides a full overview of all initiatives taken since the beginning of the legislature. However, further efforts are needed to respond even better to the needs expressed in the field. This will include better collection of gender statistics, increased training of relevant professionals, increased attention to risk assessment and better protection of victims, including through the continuation of multidisciplinary care initiatives such as the Sexual Violence Centres and the Family Justice Center. In addition, greater attention should be paid to vulnerable groups who are victims of gender-based violence, or who, depending on their status, are in illegal residence. It would also be necessary for the next action plan to focus more on new forms of violence such as cyber-harassment. The Institute for Equality between Women and Men is currently centralising all existing gaps. Following the call for consultation with civil society, the Institute has already received many points of interest. This approach complements the coalition's alternative report Together against Violence, which, in February 2019, brought together some 50 associations or structures in this area as part of the evaluation of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention. It is important that civil society is involved not only in the development of the Action Plan but also in its implementation and evaluation. Based on the recommendations of civil society, the Institute will develop in the first half of 2020 a draft national action plan 2020-2024 in collaboration with the federal, community and regional administrations involved in the fight against gender-based violence. On the basis of this preparatory work, the aim will be to conduct political negotiations between the Federal State, the Communities and the Regions with a view to the adoption of the National Action Plan 2024. However, given the current period of current cases, it is indeed premature to set a precise timetable. In any case, strengthening interinstitutional cooperation is an important guarantee of the effectiveness of policies to combat gender-based violence. Therefore, I would like to see all levels of governance fully involved in the preparation of the National Action Plan 2024 and its adoption on the basis of a joint agreement and an ambitious, coordinated approach. I can only say that we are certainly working on it further. I said this last week in the advisory committee, ladies and gentlemen. We are really working on it with full force. My cabinet is also in full force as far as those competences are concerned. We are all trying to prepare this as well as possible, but it requires a great deal of effort. You're referring to the police zones, Mrs. Vindevoghel. If I recall correctly, you spoke to me last week about Ronse. It was then about care centres and cooperation with police zones. If we want to roll things out, such as the stalking alarm, then we must also ensure that we have agreements to guarantee security, but that requires talks with all police areas. We are going for security throughout the country, from Ostend to Liège, and that really requires a great deal of effort, but we are going to continue with it. For me, this is a very important matter. My people know that we are continuing to work on the action plan, for which we have already received many proposals. There are a lot of recommendations to be incorporated into the plan. We take note of all this and prepare ourselves very well. It is important, however, that a Minister of Equal Opportunities can do this not only in budgetary terms, but also in terms of practice. We really need cooperation with all colleagues and all political levels. It will therefore be very important that a joint agreement on the basis of the new plan should be reached at the beginning of the legislative term in the next government. Then we stand strong for the coming period. That's essential.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. You insist on this necessary cooperation between all levels of power, which is fundamental. We are well aware that this will not be done on a single level. I am pleased to hear that civil society – including associations – will be involved in the development of this new plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u26	Madam President, Madam Secretary, you are already on your way. I really hope that sufficient budgetary resources will be made available for this. That will be necessary, because the last period has been saved a great deal. I have already indicated in the advisory committee that savings are being made within the Institute. However, these are organisations that need to be there to get involved. So I really hope that sufficient resources will be made available. I have something to say about something that happened in Ghent University this week and which shocked me greatly, namely Mr Hoeyberghs' statements. Those statements were really a bridge too far. I was not very happy to hear how humiliating and humiliating the sexist and discriminatory statements Mr Hoeyberghs could afford. Madam Minister, I hope that you will support the Women's Council and the organisations that have supported the protest against it. The trade unions and the organisations request that the KVHV be suspended. I do not think it is possible for such organisations to invite people who proclaim hatred and discrimination. Madam Minister, I hope that you will be able to send a signal to those authorities in this respect. I do not think such things can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u27	Madam Minister, the Social Emancipation Advisory Committee has recently reviewed the gender mainstreaming law. The aim is to ensure that gender equality is respected when laws are made. A part of the law is the mandatory gender test as part of the regulatory impact analysis or RIA. However, in the Advisory Committee, the gender test was described at a given time as "the setting of a check mark on a to-do list'. In many legislation with a clear gender impact, the gender test is assessed as not applicable. Madam Minister, how are you going to ensure that the law on gender mainstreaming is complied with, that the gender test is carried out seriously and that the results are taken into account? The previous government adopted a lot of legislation that had a negative impact on gender equality. Do you recognize this? Are you going to strengthen the gender test? Or do you think another instrument is better suited? If so, how do you see this? What actions do you intend to take in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u28	Mrs Vindevoghel, we were able to talk about this last week in the advisory committee. As you yourself have said on several occasions, we are in ongoing business today. Pending the entry into force of a new federal government, we do not have a parliamentary majority to do great things in this area, especially as regards the impact of the test. In the context of gender mainstreaming, we want to integrate the gender dimension into all government policies. The same applies to the gender test relating to the proposals submitted to the Council of Ministers. Generally speaking, the RIA and the section 3 on equality between women and men are still not being properly implemented. Taking into account the context outlined above, it will be up to the next government to adopt implementing measures and to better integrate the gender test into the decision-making process. This better integration will require a collective and individual commitment of all government members to better implement the RIA and to also take into account this impact analysis. The next government will also have to consider whether it will retain the RIA in its current form or whether it will organise it in a different way. I cannot say much about this today at government level, I can only give you my own opinion. In fact, I did that last week in the advisory committee. Mrs Vindevoghel, if we have an instrument, it must also be effective. I can only see today that there are already a lot of things in this that need to be tested, such as SMEs, Kafka, administrative simplification and so on. If we keep it, it must be an effective instrument. For me personally, the objective is much greater, especially applying gender mainstreaming to all Parliament's and government's legislation. Last week I was in Stockholm at the invitation of the Swedish Minister for Equal Opportunities. There is a fully-fledged Minister of Equal Opportunities, only with that competence. The eight countries were invited to hold the Presidency of the European Union alternately during the current European legislature. As you know, Belgium is the last country to hold the presidency in the first half of 2024. The aim was to reflect together on how we can tackle gender mainstreaming at European level, among other things. When I told my colleagues about the test and RIA and tick off, they all started laughing because they totally recognized it. We must therefore provide better instruments. With the eight countries, we have decided that it is extremely important, not only for the Member States but also for the level of the European Commission, to have every minister or every Commissioner, within their own policies, clearly indicate what things one wants to achieve over the next five years and to apply a gender test or gender mainstreaming. We can do this by putting it back in policy papers every year. Two things are very important to me, and they also emerged in all eight countries. Firstly, we must have very good data. Today we see that when we have to evaluate, we do not always have very good data on men and women. Good data is therefore fundamental. Secondly, we also need good reporting and reporting. All countries clearly state, as I also said about Belgium last week, that annual reporting always brings new dynamism and the re-recording of points. Good data and constant reporting and reporting are therefore of great importance. I'm glad we were able to do our thing there last week. We have been able to take many interesting things with us and we will certainly look at them further. Of course, we do not know who will be responsible for this in the next government, but you can be sure that if I have anything to say about it, this will certainly be the line I will propose. The instrument is less important, but the result is important. Steps have been taken in the various policy areas, but it can be much better and we must do so at the beginning of a new legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u29	Madam Minister, it is also a question of political will. Will politics ensure that the laws strengthen equality or increase inequality? I really think it will be a political choice as well. We will have to work on that. I am not against that system in itself, but it has to be efficient and I think there is still some work to be done there. This government has passed on a lot of things that were not for the benefit of women. So there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic073x.u30	Question No 55002091C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
