ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u1	Question No 55001113C by Mrs Fonck is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u2	Madam President, Minister, you yourself confirmed that, as far as we are concerned, there is a long waiting list for those who want to buy years of study to get a higher pension. We could also read this in an article in De Standaard some time ago. Applicants sometimes have to wait more than a year and the waiting list is still growing. The problem is getting worse. Apart from the measures needed to eliminate this delay, I hope that you are in the process of determining this delay and, consequently, the excessively long period of treatment, as you have already admitted, will require me to ask the following questions, which concern our citizens as well. In fact, Minister, it is getting even more stringent. The transitional period for workers will end next year. However, the transitional period for officials expired on 1 December 2019. A number of citizens, who were in the transition period, therefore wonder what will happen to those long waiting lists. What is the basic amount to be paid by the applicant who wants to pay off? Is this the amount applicable at the time of the application or the amount at the time of the proposal/decision of the pension service? Next question touches many more people who are concerned because the answers to this question are diverse. What is the time of the tax reduction, the tax deduction? What amount is applicable in this case and in what year should it be transferred? Finally, I have a budgetary question. What are the reductions achieved so far due to the delay in treatment? What is the relationship between realised revenue and budgeted revenue per year for the recent past and 2019? You have recorded a budgetary return on the installation of the measure and on the transitional period. What is the relationship between the recorded budgetary revenue and the actual amounts received?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I asked a question on this matter in October. I told you at the end of October that there was a problem with the period when people have to wait for school years to be bought off. My questioning and the e-mails I had received showed that people had to wait a long time, sometimes even a year and longer, before they received an answer. You admitted that and said you were going to see if more staff needed to be deployed. You also wanted to deal with the problem. That is right, because one has the right, of course, to know whether or not one is paying off one's years of study. Mr Bertels, that was effective in the media at the time, including in De Standaard and on the radio. As a result of this question, people have also contacted me with other problems. The service estimates now say that they will no longer make simulations for people under 57 years of age. That is remarkable because the longer people wait to buy off years of study, the more expensive it becomes. Anyone who wants to buy the years of study should have the opportunity to check whether regularisation is interesting in his or her particular case. One should be able to check this, even if one is under 57 years of age. That statement of the estimates service is therefore very remarkable. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of these new problems? Do you know that the service estimates no longer make simulations for people under 57? Why is that the case? Do you agree that anyone who wants to buy off his studies should be able to make a simulation? How do you want to make sure that anyone who asks for a simulation gets it? This must of course be done within a reasonable period of time. In October, we had already stated that this should not last a year, which should be possible within a month at most. You also promised to check whether there are enough officials available to deal with the applications. You said you'd check that out and put in extra staff if you wanted to. Is that what happened in the meantime? Is there any need for additional staff and has it been deployed? What is the current state of affairs? What are the expectations of eliminating the backlog of requests for information on the regularisation of academic years? Thousands of people are still waiting for an answer to their question. Due to the delay, some questions may be submitted before the deadline of 1 December 2020 but will not necessarily be answered in time. It is, after all, the date of submission which counts for obtaining the regularisation and not for the reply. There is nothing people can do about it. However, I would like confirmation. I am sure you agree with me that the date of submission will count. I am also getting signals that the communication between the staff of the Pension Service and the filing body is also not working smoothly. If there are errors in a file or data have been entered wrongly, applicants will not be notified accordingly. Does that happen often? I've seen cases, but is it common? Have you noticed that, too? Complaints may be submitted to the Pension Service itself. How many complaints about regularizing the years of study have already been received? In what way will the complaints be followed up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u4	Madam President, Mr Bertels, Mrs Lanjri, in reply to the question on the estimates to be made to persons under 57 years of age, I can tell you that the FPD confirms that he is currently restricting the delivery of tailor-made and detailed estimates to persons aged at least 57 years. However, the vast majority of citizens have access to an estimate of their future pension rights as well as to a simulation of the impact of purchasing one year of study or several years of study through mypension. If an anomaly in the career prevents an automatic estimation via mypension, the FPD shall correct the career to allow such an estimate to be made at a later date. These automatic estimates can also be sent by letter to the citizens who wish to do so. However, I understand that in some cases the estimates available through mypension are not sufficient. Citizens should then be able to receive a tailor-made estimate from the FPD. I will ask the FPD to analyse the possibility of delivering tailor-made estimates to citizens under 57 years of age, if they explicitly ask. As regards the appointment of additional officials to deal with the requests for purchase, I can inform you that, thanks to the budget allocated by the government, the FPD has been able to recruit 22 staff to deal with these applications. These 22 employees have been able to strengthen the already existing team. It should be noted, however, that, despite a sufficient number of officials to deal with applications for regularisation, the time-limit for processing remains too long. Like you, I am asking questions about this situation. I have again asked the FPD to take the necessary steps quickly to deal with these requests within a proper time limit. I make a table available to you with the statistics on stock evolution of the number of requests for regularisation and intelligence. The citizens who have questions about the handling or state of their files can, of course, always contact the FPD. At present, the citizen is not automatically informed if a problem at career level or a problem at the level of verification of the diploma delays the examination of the file. Since such automatic communication seems useful, I intend to ask the FPD to provide a communication for citizens in future explaining the reasons for the delay in handling the file. I also confirm that the date of submission of the application is decisive in order to benefit from the transitional measures relating to the amount of the regularisation contribution. The lump sum of the regularisation contribution is currently EUR 1,530 per regularised year. According to the information provided to me by the FPD, I can inform you that the FPD received 22 complaints in 2018 and 34 complaints in 2019. Those complaints mainly concern waiting times and the absence of an acknowledgement of receipt. The complaints will be answered within 15 days. However, this number of complaints does not give a complete overview of the situation, as citizens use different channels to deliver their complaints, for example through the FPD or through the Ombudsman. For example, an important number of citizens have turned directly to my cabinet. The complaints received by my cabinet mainly concern complaints relating to time limits for handling. As regards the deductibility of the regularisation contribution, I can confirm that it is linked to the date of payment of the contribution. The FPD automatically sends a tax certificate during the year following the payment, so that the person concerned can deduct the contribution for the relevant year of income. You also asked about the proceeds. I'll keep a table of the figures at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u5	Thank you, Minister. As a minister responsible for pensions, I do not need to remind you that trust in pensions is a key concept. People need to be able to trust that they will receive a pension and trust the information on the amount of pension they will receive. Trust is a key element in our social security system and all the more so in the pension system. I also hope that your staffing measures will have an effect on the excessively long period of treatment. I'm also curious about the table. You should certainly insist and not just ask that the federal pension service informs those concerned if, for example, there is a problem in the composition of the career for the calculation. One of the problems is indeed the difficult contact with that service. If one gets in touch with it, it is not obvious to explain where the problem is, if one does not know the problem, but only knows that an application for regularisation has been submitted to which one does not receive an answer. The employee who picks up the phone can't always do it. In any case, the result is often more frustration, because the employee cannot provide a complete answer. The service should proactively inform the person concerned if there is a problem. These systems exist, in the computer applications of the FPD one can see whether the problem is being dealt with or whether it has not yet been detected. One can at least give that information, because now the people involved often get an unsatisfactory answer when they have finally got someone on the phone. Then there are two frustrated, both the one who has to give the answer and the one who asks the question. Please fix that. Finally, I would like to thank you for confirming that the date of submission of the application applies, while the date of payment is taken into account for taxation. Please put that on the website as well. I checked this morning in the hope that it would be, but that is still not the case. The website with regard to regularization already contains a number of standard responses. Why can't the problems that exist now be addressed on that website as well? That saves you and our work. Communicate that clearly. Now it doesn't say when to pay, which creates uncertainty because people get different answers, right or wrong. Wake confidence by acting proactively. Mr. Secretary, let the FPD add that this afternoon. After all, it is not so difficult to add a few sentences to the website that provides the basic information. After all, that is information that is absolutely needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u6	Mr Minister, I would like to begin with a positive note. When I asked you a question about this in October, you admitted that it went wrong, adding that you would address the problem. I think it is a good thing if a minister wants to do something about problems that have been identified by Parliament. It is also a good thing that in the meantime 22 employees have been appointed as a result of my question on how to deal with the backlog. That's good news, but apparently the problem hasn't been solved yet. You really need to keep following the issue, so that people get a reply within a reasonable period of time. In normal cases this should not take more than a month, in very complex cases it may be a little longer, but there must be feedback to the citizen. I had pointed out another problem to you in the question I raised a month ago, namely why people no longer make calculations for people under 57 years of age. I now hear that you also believe that this is not possible and that you will ask the Federal Pension Service to provide that calculation if a citizen expressly requests it. That's a good thing. I found it strange that the Federal Pension Service itself apparently decides that it does not make calculations for certain persons. I find it strange that you, as a minister, have not been consulted on this issue. By the way, where does that 57-year-old limit come from? Every citizen has the right to information. If it is not automatically available via MyPension and one has to request it from the Federal Pension Service, these calculations must also be made for persons under 57 years of age. After all, the longer one waits to buy off years of study, the more expensive it becomes. I hope that you will speak with the Federal Pension Service and urge him not to take such a decision without you, Parliament or the Government being aware of it. Finally, I assume that the date of filing counts. You confirmed that here today. That date creates uncertainty for a lot of people. That is why I asked my questions last time, and that is why I am doing it again. If people don't know, they probably won't buy off their years of study, although in some cases that can be very beneficial to them and also to the government. You're counting on buying off for the government to generate a number of returns. You have already taken this into account in your budget. So you must do everything you can to ensure that workers who want to buy off their academic years do not let themselves be stopped by the fact that it takes a year for them to get an answer to their questions and indeed make their application. Ensure better and clear communication in this area, at least via the website and at the Federal Pension Service as individuals directly address their questions to that service. I find it particularly hallucinating that the Federal Pension Service has decided no longer to do calculations for workers under 57 years of age. I trust that this practice will cease immediately, as you yourself find it objectionable and will ask the service to stop doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u7	Madam President, Minister, on October 14, the South Press Group published an article on pensions. Two researchers, Mr. Pierre Devolder and Mr. Jean Hindriks, who served on the Committee on Pension Reform 2020-2040, spoke. Their comments are alarming. According to them, social benefits would increase by 20.7 % between 2020 and 2024, which amounts to 46 to 55 million euros. Health expenditure would increase by 23.9 per cent and pensions by 22.6 per cent, while social contributions would increase by only 14 per cent over the same period. These figures are surprising, since, some time ago, the Committee for the Study of Ageing (CEV) made somewhat different comments. In summary, according to the Committee's projections, due to ageing, social expenditure is expected to increase to 27.6% of GDP in 2070, compared to 25.2% in 2018. With regard to pensions, this expenditure is expected to represent 12.5 % of GDP in 2070 instead of 10.7 % in 2018. But according to the VEC, it is important to note that not all social expenditure will increase: while expenditure on pensions and health care will increase by 3.9 percentage points of GDP between 2018 and 2070, other social expenditure, especially those related to unemployment and family allowances, will decrease by 1.5 percentage points. Thus, according to the CEV, our social system remains completely viable and we are not facing a disaster. Minister, what is your position on these figures? The two experts interviewed by the Sud Presse group propose, among other things, a solution to extend the working hours of Belgians. Does the postponement of the statutory pension age by one or two years really have a significant impact on the cost of ageing? If so, how much? Be careful not to focus on the pension at age 67, but on those who leave at age 61 or 62. The aim is to raise the pension age slightly without focusing on the 67.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u8	Madam President, Minister, I will probably repeat what has already been said, because I am also referring to this press article that referred to these two UCL researchers you know well, since they had participated in the debates on pension reform 2020-2040. They propose this alternative: the individual pension account, derived from the point pension to which the government was in favour, if I am not mistaken. According to the Monitoring Committee, which has already been the subject of numerous presentations, social benefits would increase by 20.7 per cent between 2020 and 2024, health expenditure by 23.9 per cent and pension expenditure by 22.6 per cent. The two researchers talk about an increase in pension expenditure of almost 15 billion in 10 years. It's huge, and I know you're sensitive to it. Seventy-five per cent of this increase would be caused by the increase in the average pension. The individual pension account is mentioned by these researchers. It would be fed every year of work by a theoretical pension amount equal to the annual individual wage – obviously capped – multiplied by an annual rate of purchase. Minister, my questions are simple: what do you think of this system? Is this reform possible in our country? In advance, I thank you for your follow-up on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, I will not repeat what my colleagues have said about the item in question. Do you confirm the numbers mentioned by the two professors? What are the pension costs involved? Can you give us the report in terms of GDP? Finally, what is the increase in pension expenditure in proportion to GDP between 2020 and 2024?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the development of pension expenditure, it should first of all be pointed out that the analyses of Mr. Hindriks and Devolder, cited in the article published on 14 October in the newspapers of the group Sud Presse, cover the period 2020-2024. Those of the Study Committee on Ageing, to which you refer, concern, on the other hand, the period 2018-2070. In its report, the Study Committee states that the cost of ageing will increase by 25.2% of GDP in 2018 to 26.6% of GDP in 2024. It will continue to grow to 29.1% of GDP in 2040. This analysis therefore does not contradict that of Messrs. Hindriks and Devolder, on the contrary. They are totally complementary. By 2070, the Study Committee on Ageing plans to increase expenditure on pensions and health by 3.9% of GDP, compared with a 1.5% decrease for other social expenditure. This means that in total, the cost of ageing continues to increase by 2.4 per cent in GDP. It is therefore clear from both analyses that the costs of ageing will continue to increase in the short, medium and long term. In addition, where the Committee for the Study of Ageing is limited to an analysis of expenditure trends according to GDP, MM. Hindriks and Devolder also analysed the evolution of social contributions. Their study shows that the latter increase significantly less than that of expenditure. This reinforces the conclusion that it is obviously necessary to pursue reforms to control the cost of ageing. With regard to Mrs Moscufo's question on pension expenditure, I can tell you that the July 2019 Monitoring Committee report contains a total amount of EUR 31.5 billion for pensions for employee and self-employed schemes. According to estimates by the Federal Pension Service (SFP), this expenditure will increase to an amount of EUR 38.8 billion by 2024. For public servants, spending will increase, according to SFP figures, from 17.5 billion in 2019 to 19.07 billion in 2024. According to figures from the Committee for the Study of Ageing, pension expenditure for the three schemes will increase by 10.9% of GDP in 2019 to 11.7% of GDP in 2024. With regard to the impact of an increase in the length of citizens' careers, I would point out that in 2014, the average age of exit from the labour market was just over 59 years. Today, five years later, he is 61 years old. There is already a very significant increase. The Federal Office of the Plan estimates that by 2060, raising the legal age of the pension and raising the age and career conditions for early retirement will reduce the cost of ageing by 1.6 per cent of GDP. This estimate demonstrates that these are two important measures to maintain the financial sustainability of our pension system. As regards Mrs Reuter's question in relation to the solution proposed by Messrs. Hindriks and Devolder, which would introduce a new pension system based on points accumulated throughout the career, with a focus on career length rather than pension age, I can tell you that as a personal person, I believe that future pension reforms should further strengthen the link between the career actually provided and the pension amount. We talked about an increase of 15 billion euros in ten years between 2009 and 2019. I would point out that it consists essentially of an increase in the amount of pensions, contrary to sometimes widespread ideas. Of the EUR 15 billion in ten years, EUR 11 billion relates to the increase in the amount of pensions and only EUR 4 billion relates to the increase in the number of pensioners. This means, therefore, that in our country and in the context of pension reform, we have always ensured that the increase in pensions per se is a reality, which is not the case in other countries. I would point out that in many European countries the amount of pensions has been reduced or deindexed, which has never been the case in Belgium. The analysis of Messrs. Hindriks and Devolder show it strongly. I repeat: of these 15 billion increases in ten years, 11 billion relate to the increase in the amount of pensions. I believe that future pension reforms should therefore further link pension to career. Each euro contributed should eventually generate pension rights, regardless of the scheme in which you work and whatever type of occupation you work. I also believe that further measures should be taken to encourage further career development. It will be up to the next government to take the measures it deems appropriate to continue the work to ensure the financial and social sustainability of our pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u11	Minister, I really expected the last part of your speech. I could have pronounced it for you. Thank you, though, for your different answers. As you said, you will really have to keep an eye on the various contributions because they do not follow the movement, they do not increase. I'm glad to hear you say that you should refer to a career rather than a legal retirement age. Socially, I believe that the opposite would be unfair and that this would impoverish, in particular, women pensioners, who are already heavily punished in terms of wages and pensions. On the other hand, you say that in other countries pensions are reduced. I would remind you, however, that Belgium has the lowest pensions in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u12	Minister, you will not be surprised to learn that I am fully joining you when it comes to linking pension to career. Indeed, it is normal for someone who has worked his whole life to gain a benefit from his work and his full career. On the other hand, it was important to remember that while the legal age of the pension has been raised to 67 years, the actual departure from the pension is on average 61 years. The margin is therefore still large before there is any question of actually having to work up to the legal age mentioned above. It is very important to stress that if employment is to be promoted, the link between work, the contributions it generates and the pension that will be available at the end of a career must be increased. Minister, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. As far as we are concerned, we believe that the reaction of the two professors in question gives a somewhat alarmist view of the situation. Indeed, if we look at some figures a little closer, their comments are not justified. Yesterday, hearings were held on the financing of social security. In particular, we have heard from trade union organisations and their analysis – which we share – is completely different. In their view, if we are to ensure proper pensions for the population as a whole, taking into account ageing and hard work, it will be essential to look at revenues because the previous government has focused on spending. It was this government that left a $3.1 billion hole in the social security budget. We believe that we really need to change course and put an end to the gifts of all kinds that are given – for example, social reductions or tax shift – which, in our view, are part of the indirect wages of workers, who are the only ones still producing wealth in this country. It is therefore imperative to reverse the steam. In any case, even the figures in this article – and you confirm – do not allow us to opt for a point pension, which we consider to be a raffle pension while our seniors deserve much more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u14	Madam President, Minister, the Constitutional Court, in a judgment No. 11/2019 of 31 January 2019, ruled that Article 8, § 1, paragraph 1, § 3, 3°, of the General Act of 21 July 1844 on civil and ecclesiastical pensions and its annex "Table of active services" violates Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution in that they do not allow customs officers of the old levels 2 and 2+ integrated into the staff of motorized brigades following the abolition of customs controls at the internal borders of the European Community in 1993 to benefit from the Tanth preferential 1/50e for the calculation of their retirement pension. This decision follows a question referred by the French-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels for a preliminary ruling. My questions are as follows: Has the "Active Services Table" annexed to the Act of 21 July 1844 been adapted as a result of this decision? Can you confirm to me that the agents covered by the decision of the Constitutional Court are today entitled to the tantième 1/50e for the calculation of their retirement pension? Do your services automatically apply this 1/50th anniversary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u15	(...) judgment of 31 January 2019 following a question referred by the court for a preliminary ruling in a dispute with an individual. It is therefore not a decision to annul the regulation. The legislation on active services therefore remains in force until it has been amended by law. And it is not up to the current government to take an initiative in this direction, since adapting the tables for active services is not a matter of day-to-day business management, although I understand very well the legitimacy of the issue. Until the provisions of the Act are amended, the Federal Pension Service (FPS) has no choice but to apply the Act as currently drafted. However, I am currently considering with the SFP the possibility of being able to follow up on the ruling of the Constitutional Court without waiting for the establishment of a new government. This would make it possible for all the staff concerned to actually benefit from the Tantieth 1/50th. In the event of a change in the law – which could come from a parliamentary initiative in particular – pension files can be reviewed, but in this case the law would have to provide for retroactive effect to the measure – which I believe is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u16	Thank you, minister, but this suggests that case law should be created from a particular case, which would encourage others to turn to justice. As you rightly pointed out, a parliamentary initiative is possible by introducing a bill to amend the provisions. I appreciate you saying you're looking for a solution despite the routine business. Indeed, if the notion of taking the interests of the citizen into account is only dependent on having a government in day-to-day affairs or in full exercise, I think there is a great risk at that time that the population is even more fearful and apolitical than at present. I really hope that you can confirm that you are moving towards an analysis with the SFP, and if that is not possible, we will take the initiative to table a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u17	Madam President, Minister, from 1 January 2019 a foster leave has been introduced. For the first three days of that foster leave, foster parents receive the normal wage, but for the remaining period there will be a benefit due to sickness insurance. A level playing field has already been envisaged for the annual holiday, but no equivalence has yet been established for the building up of pension rights. Meanwhile, it has become known that, despite the increase in foster homes, many children and young people are on a waiting list. It is up to us to encourage such care for children and young people in a vulnerable situation. Can you confirm, Minister, that the equivalence of pension rights has not yet been settled? Is there a need to adapt the rules so that foster parents can count on their pension rights when they take up that commitment? If not, what is the reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u18	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the equality of parental leave before the pension is not yet settled. The adoption of a royal decree governing the equivalence of that leave exceeds the powers of a government in current cases. However, I have asked the Federal Pension Service to prepare a draft royal decree granting the equivalence of that period so that it can be adopted once a new government has been formed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I don't think it's the answer that foster parents expect. If it is settled, I hope it will take effect retroactively, from 1 January 2019, the moment from when foster parents could take their foster parents' leave. I stand by the view that foster parents take on an important commitment, a commitment that means an investment in our society. This investment must be rewarded by an equalisation for subsequent pension rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u20	Mrs Lanjri, I would like to ask you to apologize to Mrs Farih because I gave her incorrect information. I told her that she could turn her question into a written question, but when I answered her, I had not seen that it was an attached question. In this case, his question becomes moot. Can you tell him about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u22	Mr Minister, 27 years after the last mine was closed, it appears that miners' pensions would not have been fully calculated correctly. The Royal Decree provides that the pension of a miner with 20 years of underground service is to be calculated on the basis of 30 years. However, it now appears that the pension is calculated at 25/30ths instead of 30/30ths, which means that miners receive an annual pension of between 2,000 and 2,600 euros. Such matters need to be cleared up, because miners have done unhealthy and dangerous work in the past, which has made a huge contribution to our economic growth and development. They therefore deserve the greatest respect and clarity about their pension. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Are the miners' pensions actually not calculated correctly? If so, what are the loopholes? Will you rectify this situation? Will the pension still be paid retroactively to the ex-mine workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u23	Madam President, I have about the same question, but I will give you some more history, because the miners' pensions have already come a very long legal road. It began with the KB of 1967, which stipulated that miners could obtain their pension after a career of 30 years, regardless of their age. This was a full retirement pension of 30/30th. As my colleague said, the Royal Decree of 28 March 1975 reduced the career to 25 years but retained full pension. These five other years were calculated according to additional fictitious years. However, in 1990 our country was condemned by the European Court of Justice, in the Conti judgment, with the result that the fictitious years could no longer be charged. As a solution, it has been added in the law that underground miners are entitled to a retirement pension of 25/30th with a supplement on top of that. The law provides that the supplement is equal to the difference between the amount of the retirement pension which would have been received if one had worked normally and mainly in the subsoil of the said undertaking and the overall amount of the retirement pensions or the benefits which could be claimed as such. That became the new system. It is also mentioned on the website of the Federal Pension Service. Finally, former Minister of Pensions Van Quickenborne made a pension change in 2012. The amended law states that the rights granted to miners and acquired at the time of the closure of the mines are safeguarded. These different steps in the legislation have created a great deal of uncertainty. Different interpretations are possible. Is it true, Minister, that the method of calculating the supplement is not applied in the same way throughout Belgium? If so, what different methods of calculation are then used and how did they come about? If not, how do you explain that some underground miners are getting a total of 30/30ths and others aren't? For the latter, I agree with my colleague's question: will there be a correction for them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Act of 20 July 1990 establishing a flexible retirement age for workers and adapting workers' pensions to the evolution of general well-being provides in its Article 3 (6) that the amount of the employee's retirement pension which has been normally employed as a miner in the underground mines or underground quarries at least 25 calendar years is to be increased by a supplement. The method of calculating this supplement is defined in the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990 implementing the Law of 20 July 1990 establishing a flexible retirement age for workers and adapting workers' pensions to the evolution of general well-being, amending certain provisions relating to employees' pensions. Article 3 of this Royal Decree provides that the calculation of this pension supplement shall be based on a flat-rate salary, which currently corresponds to EUR 17,770,57 per career year. The Federal Pension Service informs me that the calculation of the supplement takes place in the same way for all former miners and that the provisions, which have not been amended since 1990, have been correctly applied. The Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service has set up a working group to analyse the issue of miners' pensions. I can inform you that representatives of the miners were received from my cabinet on 22 November. It will be for the next government, should it prove necessary, to amend the calculation rules for the miners' pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There will indeed be a working group within the Federal Pension Service which will look into the matter. That working group is necessary. When we look at the implementation of the Royal Decree of 4 December 1990, a number of doubts arise as to whether this is fully in line with the law. The supplement as calculated and as the calculation is provided for in the Royal Decree does not guarantee 30/30 or 30 years before the retirement of miners. Moreover, some miners' pensions are calculated differently, which may be contrary to the principle of equality. In this sense, I await the results of the working group. I hope that the working party will make a number of proposals to rectify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u26	Minister, your answer is somewhat contradictory. After all, you note that the pension is calculated in the same way throughout Belgium and that there is therefore no problem. However, a working group is being set up, which shows that there may be a problem after all. The most important thing is that the problem is resolved and, above all, that it is resolved quickly. Those involved have been waiting for ten years and there have been discussions on the issue for ten years. I hope that, in your capacity as Minister, you will urge the working party to be able to act as a matter of urgency, so that the parties concerned can be informed very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u27	I see for the following questions that several of them were sent a little longer ago. I would remind you that the Minister will keep the written documents at your disposal if you wish to turn an oral question into a written question today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u28	Minister, on 1 January 2007, the status of the CALog staff members in the police force was brought into line with the public office. As a result, these staff were entitled to a competence allowance. In the information brochure issued by DGS in 2007, it was clear that this competence allowance would be eligible for the calculation of the pension, as is the case for the other staff of the public office. You confirmed that in your reply in 2015 and 2016 to the ACOD, in which you indicated that the competence allowance would be eligible for the pension calculation. To date, the calculation of the CALog staff's pension for the competence allowance has not yet been settled and the allowance is not yet included in the pension. However, this is already announced in 2007. This is already a long time for the employees who apply for or retire. Can you confirm, Minister, that equal treatment for the building up of pension rights has not yet been settled? Is an adaptation of the rules provided for so that this can be corrected for those who are already retired or who have applied for their pension? If not, what is the reason? When will the regulatory texts be published? A number of employees were entitled to that competence grant, but they are already retired. How many members of staff already retired from whom the competence allowance was not included in their pension? Will the allowance be granted retroactively to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u29	The decision making it possible to take into account the various competence allowances, including those granted to the staff of the integrated police logistics framework, for the calculation of pensions, cannot be submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval, since the decision in this respect, due to its budgetary impact on the Treasury, exceeds the strict framework of management in current cases. As regards your question about the number of staff already retired without taking into account the competence allowances, only the Home Office is able to provide those figures. I therefore invite you to question my colleague Pieter De Crem, Minister for Foreign Trade and Security and Home Affairs. The draft Royal Decree has retroactive effect as it sets 1 January 2007 as the date of entry into force. That date corresponds to the date on which a competence grant was awarded when a certified training course was successfully followed by a member of the CALog. The draft Royal Decree therefore allows a revision of the pensions already granted to take the competence allowances into account for the calculation of pensions. Once the Royal Decree has been approved, the Federal Pension Service will question the Department of Home Affairs, which is responsible for the CALog staff, to determine which pensioners have received competence allowances, and review their pension records from the entry into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that the present draft Royal Decree would, with retroactive effect, recalculate the pension rights of those who made the effort to follow training courses and thereby receive a competence grant. At the same time, I am disappointed that the matter is being dismissed as if it could no longer be dealt with in current cases. Indeed, the scheme started in 2007 and we are now almost in 2020. In my opinion, time has passed enough to get that settled earlier. Meanwhile, people are waiting for additional pension rights and want the assurance that their efforts will also be rewarded in their pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u31	Madam President, Minister, upon the death of a retired public servant, direct-line heirs are entitled to a funeral allowance. This allowance is financed by the staff member through a deduction of 0.5 per cent of the gross amount of his retirement pension. In order to receive such compensation, the heirs must file a claim within one year of the death of the official in question. However, not all heirs are aware that they can benefit from an intervention, as the deceased official has not always provided the necessary information. The family therefore misses a sum of up to 3,000 euros, while the deceased official contributed for this. Mr Minister, could we not foresee the systematic sending of a letter to the heirs informing them of this compensation? Can you indicate the number and percentage of allowances not claimed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u32	Madam, I would like to reiterate that, following the death of a public service pension holder, the surviving spouse is automatically informed of his or her entitlement to the funeral allowance. I'm talking about the surviving spouse. For the time being, it is not yet possible to find the other heirs of the deceased through the Carrefour de la Sécurité Sociale Bank. I have no doubt that at some point this will become possible. With regard to the number, the Federal Pension Service informed me that in 2018, 6,782 funeral benefits were granted. Apart from the number of payments, there are no specific statistical data that are retained. But the Federal Service estimates that 60% of payments are made ex officio to the surviving spouse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u33	We are therefore aware of the number of compensations paid. If we knew the number of people who died, that would allow us to know the percentage of people who died.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u34	The Federal Pension Service does not know this percentage. It has the percentage of staff allowances that have a surviving spouse. But if there is no surviving spouse, he has no information about the heirs. If the request has not been made, he is not aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u35	I imagine that there would still be a way to at least know the number of public servants who have died.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u36	It depends on Carrefour Bank.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u37	I'm counting on you to move on with this. It is still the minimum to know which civil servants are dead, and their number.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u38	Mr Minister, this question is directly in line with the previous questions on miners, but it is approached from a different perspective. We have been informed that a number of underground miners who move abroad after their retirement receive a higher pension than they had previously received in Belgium. In fact, it is deduced that there is indeed a problem with the supplement that we have just raised. I will not repeat the rest of the legal history, of course, but I do have a few questions, Minister. Is it true that some underground miners who move abroad actually receive a higher pension there than they previously received in Belgium? If so, is this particularly applicable to miners who previously worked in the Kempian steel coal mines? Is the cause of this difference in European legislation and the Conti judgment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u39	Mr Spoorten, (...) explain the content of the judgment in Conti. The Conti judgment prohibits miners from subtracting the pension supplement from the pension rights acquired in another Member State of the European Union. The amount of the gross pension, irrespective of whether it is a miners' pension or an ordinary employee's pension, remains unchanged when a pensioner moves abroad. A transfer abroad may have an impact on the deductions made on the pension, in particular the ZIV contribution, the solidarity contribution and the corporate tax. For example, the net amount of pension abroad may be higher than the amount of pension received by a pensioner living in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u40	Thank you very much, Minister. That is very clear and explains the difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u41	Minister, this is a bit of a technical question about the interpretation of an article, but not a minor one. Article 123 of the Law of 26 June 1992 states that "The payment of the supplement resulting from the application of Articles 120 and 121 shall be discontinued during the calendar years during which the pensioner carries on any profitable activity which gives him an annual gross income equal to or greater than EUR 607,59, unindexed debt securities. This article leaves some room for interpretation. If a person goes back to work in the course of the year, the Article 123 in question does not provide that the benefit is to be terminated retroactively. In practice, however, the retroactive recovery is requested by the RVP. If we consult the social security website, we read the following: If you receive other pensions or interest, they will be deducted from the supplement in full or in part. If you carry out an activity that exceeds a certain amount, your supplement can be suspended. This provision supports the fact that retroactive recovery should not apply, as the social security website indicates that the supplement is suspended from the moment the employment begins. Firstly, how should Article 123 be interpreted? Secondly, if this means that retrospective recovery applies when someone starts working in the course of the calendar year, can this not be seen as sanctioning people taking up work? So it's deactivating. Thirdly, if this does not mean that retroactive recovery is applicable, will you take action to compensate the people affected by this misinterpretation and correct the errors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u42	Mr Spooren, Article 123 of the Law of 26 June 1992 takes the calendar year as a reference. The income from a profitable activity in the same calendar year is thus added regardless of the type or nature of the activity pursued or the period during which the activity takes place. I do not think that any other interpretation of that provision is possible. Consequently, when the annual authorised income is reached, the pension supplement should be granted as a guaranteed minimum throughout the calendar year concerned, implying, where appropriate, a refund with retroactive effect of pension contributions unduly paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u43	Minister, your answer is clear. It's the law, of course, but it's deactivating. Anyone who takes up work by the end of the year will be punished for that. I think that we should consider whether we are not able to reform this system. You can't fix it, but it doesn't seem like very good legislation to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u44	Madam President, my colleague Evita Willaert is very kind to let me begin, because I am bound by a small hourly imperative. Mr Minister, we have already dealt with the subject in committee, but I will come back to it because I think it is important. Since 1 July, the factors are responsible for verifying the actual presence in our territory of the beneficiaries of the GRAPA allowance (income guarantee for the elderly), since this presence is one of the conditions for granting it. Our factors will now have the task of checking at least once a year if this condition is fulfilled. This is causing unease in the trade union ranks. For its part, my group has already pointed out that it is in favour of extending the role of factors within society, while at the same time refusing to exercise a control function which is not theirs. In short, this control is justified, but must not be the responsibility of the factors because they must maintain a positive and societal image of their profession. Two new elements appeared. First of all, on November 20th, Questions à la Fronte, on RTBF, addressed the theme of pensions. I'm sure you've heard of it. In particular, the new role of factors was discussed. According to a lawyer specializing in public law, Me Jean Bourtembourg, this control "would be intelligence but no evidence. That did not have the force of a report. People could challenge the alleged finding, with a high chance of winning the case." Minister, what does this reflection inspire you? What would be the possible consequences of complaints by the beneficiaries concerned? Have you ever received any? If so, how many? Can you also inform me of the number of checks already carried out by the factors since 1 July and the number of persons punished? I would like to make it clear that we are receiving a lot of reactions. Is that your case, too? As you know, GRAPA beneficiaries are, by definition, people in great difficulty. I know that an assessment of the measure will be made on 1 January, but I ask you to see it again. I think that it is not good and that it does not meet its objective. In a constructive way, I would like to ask you to do so; I also asked your colleague Mr. Backer yesterday in committee, about bpost. We will continue the debate as an evaluation of the measure will take place in January. But I already wanted to see what could be done, because a real difficulty is felt on the ground with regard to this control carried out by the factors. I really have to leave, but I wanted to ask you the question. I will read your answer very carefully this afternoon. Merci d'avance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u45	Mr Minister, my question is a combination of an unanswered written question and a follow-up question following the debate we had last time. I'll come straight to my questions. In your answer to my question about the intertwined control procedure for the income guarantee scheme for older people, you compared a figure from 2016 with figures spread over four years, since 2016, hence my demand for more precise figures. What is the total number of files checked per year, since 2016, until the introduction of the new system and per month since the introduction of the new system? What is the number of unjustified suspensions? What is the number of justified suspensions? Even after your reply, it is not clear whether the cost of the control system is lower or higher since the introduction of the new system, because you do not even know the figures because of the confidentiality of the public contract. However, the Federal Pension Service can estimate that the savings resulting from the reduction of the amounts due are likely to exceed the costs of the new procedure. Do you already have more precise amounts of savings from the new procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u46	Madam President, Minister, on October 15, we had already discussed widely the mechanism you have put in place to control the residence of GRAPA beneficiaries. On that occasion, we had failed to reach agreement. But we had an appointment in six months. At the time, you stated that the factor was not a controller and that it acted in the same way as when it issued a recommendation. Finally, the government's position is that it is a simple administrative act, which Mr. De Backer has confirmed in the Commission of Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. We tried to obtain in vain the framework contract which binds bpost to the Federal Pension Service, but the press was able to know about it since La Libre Belgique referred to it in November. I thought Mr. Van Gerven had agreed that the framework contract should be forwarded to Parliament if certain confidentiality clauses were withdrawn. As elected officials, I believe that we have the right to obtain the framework contract, even if that is the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u47	Still, La Libre Belgique and other media report control. This term goes back 12 times. "Controls", "persons to be checked" and "identity checks" are referred to, etc. It is therefore a control that involves the factors. That was the subject of our discord last October. In our view, this is not just a way of helping people through a new administrative procedure. However, some older people have a number of fears and mention the need to have a fine hearing to hear the factor ring, to have good legs to get down the stairs in order to open their door in time to the factor, with the risk of being subject to financial sanctions, which could have serious consequences for most of them who are already in a rather precarious situation. At the time, you also informed me that the new procedure would be evaluated six months after its entry into force. So, in exactly three weeks, we will have come to that end. Minister, like my colleagues, I would like more information about the evaluation that has been announced. So, could you tell me how it will be achieved? By whom? Which actors will be consulted? I would also like you to clarify the results of these checks. You told us that a first cycle of checks had resulted in 1,072 suspensions on 16,000 checks and that the second cycle was under way. How many controls have there been to date? How many checks have resulted in a suspension? In how many cases has the recipient challenged the sanction decision? How have these challenges been addressed, if any? In how many cases was the beneficiary, in the end, in his law and had therefore been unjustly punished?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the number of files checked per year between 2016 and the introduction of the new system, as well as the number of justified and unjustified suspensions, I would refer you to the tables contained in the reply to your written question on the same subject, which I keep at the disposal of the committee. Since the introduction of the new system, 50,483 files have been checked until November 2019 including. The total number of suspensions currently stands at 1,995 until October 2019 including. However, this figure may still evolve as the SFP leaves sufficient time for GRAPA beneficiaries to provide evidence of their presence in the territory. Thus, the notifications of sanctions resulting from the July and August 2019 controls will only be sent in the course of January 2020. In view of the time available to the beneficiaries to provide such evidence, the SFP has not yet received any real challenge to the suspension since the implementation of the new procedure. It is impossible at this stage to give figures on the number of justified and unjustified suspensions, given the time limit for handling the suspension files. The FPD indicates that these figures will be available from the beginning of 2020. As I indicated in the previous session of oral questions, the FPD estimates that the savings achieved following the introduction of the new control system will exceed the costs associated with the performance of bpost. This aspect will also be analysed in the global review of the new system at the beginning of 2020. It is not possible to give more details at this stage. In response to Mr Vanden Burre's question on Mr Bourtembourg's legal analysis, I can tell you that the Federal Pension Service, not the factor, monitors compliance with the residence requirement, as has always been the case. The role of the factor is limited to delivering the certificate of residence after verification of the identity of the beneficiary of GRAPA or depositing in the mailbox the certificate to be completed by the communal authorities. In case of absence during three visits of the factor, the beneficiary still has the opportunity to prove his presence on Belgian territory via the certificate deposited in his mailbox. This means that even if the person does not answer, they will never be punished for it, they will have their certificate in their mailbox. There's no change. She will simply have to go to the communal house, as she did before, to have her certificate completed. We will not rely on these three absences to suspend or abolish the allowance, it has no impact. However, suspension may occur if the certificate is not returned. In the event of the late return of the certificate, the person concerned may provide the SFP with proof of his presence in the territory. Since the control of the residence condition and the decision on the suspension of GRAPA are the responsibility of the SFP – not the factor! – the role of the factor does not seem to me to be a problem at the legal level. According to information provided to me by the SFP, 30 complaints were lodged by GRAPA beneficiaries following the new procedure. Complaints concerning bpost services are followed up in consultation with bpost. The SFP also received questions and comments from four organizations: the Old Angry Gang, the Federal Advisory Council for Seniors, an association that works with social workers in hospitals and the municipality of Molenbeek. In response to Mr Delizée's question on the planned evaluation, I can tell you that, as announced at the previous oral question session, the evaluation will take place six months after the implementation of the new procedure, i.e. early 2020. This evaluation will be carried out by the SFP and will be based on the numerical balance sheet of the new procedure (number of checks, number of suspensions, collaboration with bpost, quality of bpost services, transmission of data) as well as on all comments and complaints received during the first six months. This analysis will, as announced, be presented to the social partners who sit on the SFP Management Committee. I would like to provide you with a complete picture of the number of residence certificates and the number of suspensions and the justified and unjustified suspensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u49	I understand, Minister, that there will still be tables, which we will, of course, study with great attention. I fully understand the fact that the figures are not yet available, since since the introduction of the new procedure, the treatment period for possible suspensions has not yet expired. As I understand it, they will be able to be delivered at the beginning of 2020. So we will ask them again and look carefully. We also want more clarity about the cost, which would not exceed the cost of bpost's performance. You indicate that this aspect and the evaluation will be analysed. So let me make a note that I will be submitting a new question on this shortly. We insist that, even with the benefit of the doubt that this would happen with the best of intentions, the procedure is very cumbersome and that it really frightens those involved. You underline that there is a distinction, because a postman can ring three times to see if someone is at home, then deliver a note, after which the check procedure will start, as the note will have to be returned. I can still look at the situation very kindly and understand them, but the elderly, who are concerned about their income, are really afraid. They really think they should be at home when the mailman comes to the door three times. I had a phone call with a woman who went to the market when the mailman was at her door. She told me that she hardly dares to go to the market in the morning. She also stated that it should not be possible for her to take the blame for this, because she stayed at home for the children. In short, those involved are really afraid and do not understand that there can be three calls and the check is only made when the form is not returned. We will continue to defend it for those concerned. We're wondering if it's worth the kale. That's why the numbers are so important. After all, fear really lives among the vulnerable. It is a misunderstanding that must really be eliminated for them. After all, they really live at the moment with fear of their income.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u50	I thank the minister for his reply, which I will no longer describe this time as a response to the Daniel Bacquelaine, unlike the last time, when the situation was much more controversial. As far as the figures are concerned, I would be asking for the tables. We'll take a few notes on the flight. When you refer to a written question, you have to go look for it. If I have heard correctly, the 50,483 files reviewed are between July 1 and the end of October. Is this the reference period? It's been four months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u51	November 2019 is included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u52	So it's been five months. So we have 50,000 files under control and just under 2,000 suspensions. We're at 4%.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u53	The suspensions are until October.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u54	That's right. So that's about 4% until October. I think we're gonna wait for the evaluation. At this point, we can only do that. Let's meet in two or three months. It is important that this assessment be done by a serious body, as is the case with the SFP. It must be carried out by competent people and must be accompanied by a debate with the Management Committee of the Pensions Service, and in particular with the social partners there. We will meet again to discuss the evaluation and to change the system according to the outcome of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u55	Minister, you know that a solidarity contribution must be paid by employees when they receive a supplementary pension. For an employee who retires and receives a supplementary pension from his employer, this additional pension capital shall be converted into a monthly fictitious interest rate based on the beneficiary's age at the time of payment of the capital for the purpose of calculating the solidarity contribution. The conversion of capital to fictitious interest shall be made on the basis of a table of coefficients set out in the Royal Decree of 25 April 1997. This conversion table from capital to fictitious interest rates is no longer consistent with the expected lifespan. The result is that the fictitious monthly interest rates are far too high. The conversion coefficients are also outdated. This problem was raised earlier on 23 January 2019 in the Committee on Social Affairs, when discussing Bill No. 3409 on the increase in the limit amounts applicable for the determination of the suspension of solidarity in the field of pensions. You said then that you would change the death tables as well as bring the coefficient from 4.75 % to 1.75 % by taking a KB. You also received a mandate from the committee on 23 January. Afterwards, you would consider whether it was still necessary to address the problem of living capital and, after 15 years, no longer take into account the fictitious interest rate in the solidarity contribution to supplementary pensions. So far, you have not taken any initiative. That KB isn't there to my knowledge yet. What's to stop you from setting up this KB? When can we expect this change of law? In addition to the problem of the conversion coefficient, will you also address the problem of living capital, as you said in this committee in January of this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u56	As I pointed out in the Committee on Social Affairs during the discussion of the draft law on the increase in the limits applicable to the determination of the suspension of solidarity on pensions, I am open to an adjustment of the coefficient used for the conversion of supplementary pension capital into interest, provided that there is a consensus between the political groups to that effect. I suggested changing the parameters that allow the conversion coefficient to be set as follows. I suggested using the unisex mortality tables XR, with an age correction of - five years and a technical interest rate of 1.75 %. However, we were unable to reach a consensus during our discussions. Given the lack of a clear political consensus between all the political groups and the fact that the government is in current affairs, I cannot take any initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u57	Mr Minister, I will read the committee report of 23 January. Your services may need to do that again. There really was a consensus on the proposal that you made at the time, on indications from the various groups. So it is a pity that you say that there was no consensus. I know that you were then given the mandate of the committee to make these necessary adjustments, because we really have to pay too much now. The coefficient of 4,75 % is no longer in proportion. As you said at the time, it should be raised to 1.75 %. You seem to be questioning this, but you were given a mandate at that time. You say there was no consensus, but I have no idea. You should check it again and continue with the mandate you received from Parliament at the time. If it is necessary, because you are in doubt, then the committee can consider whether we are giving you the mandate to do so again. In this respect, you will be asked not only by our group, but also by the recommendation to do so as soon as possible. I assume that other groups can also agree that these figures no longer correspond to reality and therefore need to be adjusted. I see you nodding, so I hope you will agree with me and that the KB, which may already be ready, will be signed as soon as possible, based on the mandate you have been given. If you ask for confirmation, we can do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u58	We will be able to put it on the order of business for the next work of the committee if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u59	Minister, the law of 30 March 2018 allows local authorities in Belgium to receive a reduction in their response contribution if they meet the requirements for a pension commitment laid down in that law. A governance that does not meet the conditions risks an increase in its response contribution. Boards that are affiliated to the Plan Limburg pension system for their second pension pillar risk not complying with the legal conditions, as it cannot be guaranteed at the individual level of each employee on a contract of employment that he or she has a pension commitment of at least 4 % from 2020 or 6 % from 2021 onwards. This is also evident from the FAQ, which were published on the website of the Federal Pension Service. However, I believe that the governments that are members of the province of Limburg meet the most important requirement laid down in the law, namely to ensure that a sufficiently high second pension pillar is developed. Minister, you will agree with me that we must encourage as many administrations as possible to develop the second pillar of pensions. However, in order to avoid the need for the relevant authorities to pay an increased response contribution, the VVSG now proposes to amend the law by stating that the pension commitment should be reflected in the formula used and that it should be reached across all members of local government when reaching retirement age and not at the level of the individual member. Minister, are you in favour of the change? Are you prepared to take initiatives for the change? Or do you think he can't do it now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u60	Minister, I have a similar question. I won't repeat everything. I believe that the problem is wider than just in relation to the Limburg Plan. The same problem arises for the municipalities which are members of the supplementary pension plan of the province of Antwerp and no doubt other municipalities in Belgium will face the same problem. Therefore, the VVSG proposes to amend the law in the sense that the response contribution is not necessary if a pension commitment can be guaranteed for the entire staff without looking at the individual's level of contractual staff. Minister, do you agree with the views of the VVSG? If you agree, will you take the initiative to make a change? For local authorities it is important to know where they stand and it is even quite late, because most local authorities have their multi-annual budgets on the agenda in the coming days or next week. It's important to them to know what they're up to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the particular formula of the Limburg pension plan, the analysis is still under way in consultation with the FPD to determine whether the reduction of the contribution to the R &amp; D can be reserved for the local authorities meeting the conditions of 30 March 2018. The answer will be delivered in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u62	Minister, I look forward to the answer. I hope that a solution can be found effectively so that local authorities that effectively comply with the spirit of the law are not punished and we can continue to encourage them to bet on the second pillar of pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u63	As I said, Minister, it is wider than that. Once this analysis has been carried out for the Limburg pension plan, this must be made public to all local authorities via the VVSG. It cannot be the intention to recognise the Limburg plan only if the legal conditions are met. If one pension plan is adequate, then any other similar pension plan also satisfies. All municipalities must be treated equally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u64	Madam President, Minister, the reference bet for calculating the military retirement pension is only used for the annual basic wager. In addition, the training allowance is also taken into account. The 11 percent betting complement for irregular services is taken into account for the civilian colleagues, but not for the military. This bet complement should be added by royal decree to Article 8 of the general law on civil and ecclesiastical pensions of 1844 if it is to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension. As long as pensions were granted in the past on the basis of a paper file, this supplement was taken into account, although the Royal Decree had not yet been included in the list of complements. The introduction of the electronic file at the end of 2011 has no longer allowed the continuation of this practice. A number of colleagues have been interviewing you on this subject during the previous parliamentary term. As far as I could tell, the first question was asked at the end of 2016, i.e. 3 years ago. You acknowledged the problem and would fix it. In the middle of 2018, you announced that you were awaiting the advice of the Finance Inspectorate and the agreement of the Minister of Budget to submit to the Council of Ministers a draft royal decree which takes into account a 11 percent betting complement for irregular performance for part of the civilian personnel of Defence and certain military personnel performing a paramedical function. You would also provide for a retroactive effect. You then indicated that according to the FOD this would cost a small amount of 88,000 euros for the period 2011-2018. What is the state of affairs in the file, as you have shown the will in the past to adapt it and there was also a solution in the pipeline? In view of the limited cost, I cannot imagine that you would call on the current cases to put this matter in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u65	Mrs Willaert, the draft royal decree providing for the pension provision of the betting supplement granted to certain members of the civilian staff of the Defence Department and to certain military personnel who perform a paramedical function due to irregular performance must be approved by the Council of Ministers. Under the previous government with full powers, such approval was not possible. The adoption of this type of decision also entails new or additional expenditure for the State which does not reflect the budgetary prudence associated with the current political situation. It will therefore be up to the next government with full powers to take a position on this dossier, as well as on the other analogue dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u66	Mr Minister, after some research, I understand that this is probably part of a number of other things that you wanted to put right in this area. In this sense, I conclude that the budgetary impact will be greater as it is not just about this in the present KB. I know the will is there to deal with this. It is also a good thing that they were already at the stage mentioned, but unfortunately we no longer have a government with full authority. In this particular case, of course, it is a small cost, but as I have said, I understand that it is also about other matters that you still want to put right. The preparatory work has been done and the design of KB is ready. A new government must put this right as soon as possible. We are following this up because it is actually a mistake that was made when the paper file was converted into an electronic file. It is not about a large number of people, but it really makes a difference for those involved, especially by the retroactivity. It is good that you have done the preparatory work and we will continue to follow it up to make it work. That is simply a question of justice, because these people are effectively entitled to it and have been missing this complement for years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u67	Minister, on November 29, we learned through the press that it was the AXA banking insurance group that won the second pillar pension management contract that the federal government decided to set up for contract agents and is due to come into force next January. The government has visibly chosen to rely on the second pillar of pension for contract workers, who were previously disadvantaged in comparison with their statutory colleagues and private sector workers. But we ask ourselves a few questions. So far, we have not been able to find answers. I hope you can shed some light on this. Minister, what will be the criteria for accessing this second pillar? Contractual agents were mentioned. What about the acting staff? Is it de facto integrated? What can you tell us about the impact of the introduction of this second pillar? Can you disaggregate this impact study by category of workers? Finally, can you tell us the nature of the investments that will be made with the pension funds thus created? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u68	Mrs Leroy, the supplementary pensions relate to federal contract staff, that is, federal service staff and certain federal public bodies, as well as integrated police personnel. Acting employees are not covered because the federal government is not their employer, which is none other than acting companies. This second pillar concerns almost 20,000 contractors with an annual budget of EUR 32 million. Each contract staff member will receive a supplementary pension up to 3 per cent of his/her salary per year of service. This supplementary pension plan is the same for all workers, without exception or difference between the categories of workers. As for placements, they will be decided in consultation with the pension body which has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of the special specification, which specifies that social, ethical and environmental aspects must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u69	Minister, thank you. Can I ask you within what time frame you intend to decide on the funds? I hear you say you're going to talk to the organization about what the funds will be. Is it in a short period of time, starting in January? To rest the question of choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u70	This is even more than starting in January, since, as you know, a back service has been planned since 2017. But obviously it takes time to collect the contributions. The start-up will take place gradually, but we will be very careful to ensure that the specifications are properly applied, in consultation with the pension bodies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-11-55-commissie-ic071x.u71	All right. So we will have an opportunity to discuss it again. Another problem is that the question of interim measures still persists. I understand that the purpose of the measure was not to discriminate against contractual agents in relation to the statutory staff, but I see that the interim staff are again in an ambiguous situation. Thank you for your answers.
