ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u1	Colleagues, first of all, I have two requests for you. First of all, Mr Senesael asks to group together the various questions he has to ask today, in order to avoid going back and forth in committee. This proposal may also concern you at other times. Questions No 55000861C, No 55001020C and No 55001022C would be raised after Mr Kir's question No 55000921C, if no one sees any objection. Thank you. The second request came from Mr. Clarinval. He would like to ask his questions no 55001099C and no 55001101C at around 11.30 a.m. – 12 noon, depending on the development of the work of course. He must then go to the Conference of Presidents. I hope you don't mind. Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u2	Madam President, Minister, it is my annual custom to interview the Minister for the Interior about the language report of the Brussels Deputy Governor. Unfortunately, that report is getting worse and worse every year. The report for 2018 shows that the non-application of language legislation in recruitments and appointments in the Brussels Region is once again reaching a low point. Let me give you some figures. Once again, more than 95.5% of all contractual recruitments of French speakers to the Brussels OCMWs are not in accordance with the language law. In 2018, a total of 3,113 decisions were subject to the language control of the Deputy Governor. Of these, only 673 - just over 21% - were in order with language legislation. In this story, not only the 19 Brussels municipalities and OCMWs bear a heavy responsibility, but also the Brussels Government and the United College of the Joint Community Commission because they did not turn one suspension by the Vice Governor into destruction in 2018. In doing so, they are sending out the message that the language law is absolutely nothing as far as they are concerned. However, the Council of State has repeatedly held in the past that the power of destruction is not optional but mandatory. In addition, the report also shows the problem of linguistic parity, especially for higher relations. It is stated that 25% of lower relations should normally be reserved for Dutch speakers. The vice-governor notes in the report that five Brussels municipalities and eight OCMW municipalities are failing to do so. Minister, you are also responsible for language legislation. When the federal government finds that a law falling within its jurisdiction is not being complied with, it is up to you to act and take the necessary measures. Have you done anything to put an end to these shameful situations? Are you prepared to write a debrief on the application of the language law? Are you prepared to take legal action against the continuing incivism of the Brussels authorities if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u3	Mr Pas, you are right to say that as Minister for the Interior, I am responsible for language legislation. This means that I am empowered to have the legislation amended and to take implementing decisions. Each minister, on the other hand, has the power to enforce language legislation in the departments within his competence. Under the jurisdictional regulation, it is not for the federal government in this case to supervise the administrative language law. This is up to the government of the Brussels-Capital Region. However, I will not fail, I stress this, to send a letter to the Chairman of the Permanent Committee on Linguistic Control, asking whether he is considering the possibility of re-emphasising language legislation on the subordinate authorities in the bilingual region of Brussels or Brussels Capital, but also the obligation to apply it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In any case, you have done a little more than your predecessor, whom I interpret every year. I can't do that in current cases. I can't table a motion of recommendation. It is true that supervision belongs to the Brussels-Capital Region, but if it is found here that this monitoring is being violated year after year, then you can act legislatively and avoid that supervision. I'm already happy with the letter you're sending. I will also deal with you in order to solve this problem. There is a legislative proposal pending in this committee which includes the power to destroy the Vice-Governor, as no action is taken on it in Brussels. Since you share that concern, I hope that the government parties and your party will certainly support my bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u5	Minister, your predecessor, Mr Jambon, decided to install 3,000 ANPR cameras. Recently an article with some remarkable figures was published in Le Soir. The ANPR programme would have cost EUR 30 million so far, while staff shortages immediately classified most of the data. First of all, what happens to the registration of the unmarked number plates? Are they kept? If so, how long will the information be kept and for what purpose? Secondly, newspapers report that, due to staff shortages, a large part of the registrations of number plates are immediately classified. How many registrations of number plates are not followed up? Thirdly, if the numbers are correct, are you the whole plan of Jambon to roll out 3,000 ANPR cameras, in view of the cost? Fourthly, do you endorse your predecessor's project to install a closing camera shield? What role do you see for mass data capture in the wider police work? What relationship do you see between the concept of community-oriented police and mass data capture?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u6	Mr Colebunders, I will give you a comprehensive answer. Ms. Dedonder also asked questions. I will give all the answers and will at the moment try to translate some more into the language of Vondel. I repeat what I said at previous committee meetings. The processing of data recorded by the intelligent cameras for automatic number plate recognition is governed by the law of the police officer. The legal retention period shall not exceed 12 months from the date of capture. However, in order to strike the right balance between protecting privacy and security and for reasons of data minimising, storage is limited to one month. For judicial purposes, the time limit may be extended. An overall strategic vision, validated by the Integrated Police Coordination Committee, serves as a guide for intervention policy at district level. The purposes of the ANPR network are both administrative and judicial. This goes from recording speeding offences to combating serious and organised crime and terrorism. The interventions depend on the nature of the hit and they can take place both in real time and delayed. This is partly determined by the number of shifts available on the ground and, above all, by the priorities laid down in intervention policy. It goes without saying that the findings of a road accident are given more priority than, for example, a hit for a non-insured vehicle. However, it is not because there has been no immediate intervention that the information for the police would have been lost. In fact, intervention can still take place in a delayed period of time and the ANPR data can also be used by phenomenon coordinators or researchers in a second or third line. There is currently no need for an integrated central registration to act on an ANPR hit. The administrative and judicial authorities should determine any need to do so. The camera shield is further rolled out as planned and complies with European privacy rules. The community-oriented police model, for which police reform has been chosen, is the starting point for all new technologies and therefore also for the ANPR network. In a first phase, the ANPR network, which was operationalised in 2017, included cameras placed at the border posts, i.e. at the places where motorways enter the country. Those are the so-called transit posts. That was in both directions, both going out, out of the country, and going in, inland.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u7	Minister, if I understand correctly, you will be placing the remaining part of the 3,000 cameras. The numbers I found are talking about a thousand cameras that would have been placed in 2018. For us, the story's a little weird. We save on staff and on manpower. In certain departments there is a shortage of police officers from 14 % to 16 %. However, we do invest in something like the whole ANPR system. However, if the cost is right to date of EUR 30 million, I would like to see the total figure. In view of the additional staff costs to ensure that the project succeeds, I am afraid we will still fall back on its final invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u8	Madam President, I have answered Mr Colebunders' questions. He didn't raise the other questions. Madam President, I gave Mr Colebunders the full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u9	Minister, Ms. Ludivine Dedonder had an attached question on the same subject. She is currently on the train and will arrive a little late. Exceptionally, would you still want to answer his question if it raised new questions that would not have been answered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u10	Madam Chair, since the question has not yet been completed, I can answer the following. Dear colleague Dedonder, as far as your questions are concerned, I can only be short in my answers... (...): She is not present!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u11	Madam President, I should like to point out that I am here! Some are on the train, doing things I don't know, while I'm answering someone's question on the train. It's not my fault! Dear colleague Dedonder, in the first phase of the ANPR shield, which was operationalized in 2017, cameras were placed at all border crossings along highways in both directions. With regard to the second question, ANPR cameras are active in all the provinces concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u12	The incident is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u13	After some hesitation, Minister, you will continue with the registration of the fingerprint on the identity card approved under Minister Jambon. However, the Data Protection Authority gave twice a negative opinion on this measure. A more recent study by a research group at KUL also raised serious questions about this measure. She was called disproportionate and unclearly formulated. These are serious allegations since it concerns the data of all Belgians. In August, a large-scale theft of biometric data took place by hackers. Worldwide, 1 million data were thrown into gibberish. In Belgium, identity fraud is very rare and, moreover, the frequency has been decreasing for years. Given the risk posed by hackers, this measure therefore seems to endanger us rather than protect us from danger. Who will have exact access to the storage of fingerprints before they are removed? Which municipal officials exactly are they talking about? The COSIC research group was concerned about the unclear reference to this in the law. The temporary digital storage of fingerprints is defended because an error may occur with the uploading on the identity card. Is the chance so real that the fingerprint will be wrongly uploaded? Has an assessment been made that makes this storage reasonable? Creating an identity card takes about three weeks. Then why keep that data for three months? Today there is new technology that makes any kind of storage unnecessary, allowing the fingerprint to be uploaded immediately on the card, without any storage. If you want fingerprints on the identity card, why not consider this more modern and safer technology? The number of cases of identity fraud is decreasing every year. Why are you implementing a measure which is potentially risky, when the problem is getting smaller and smaller? Following the adoption of the law in the committee, a campaign hashtag "I refuse" was created online. What will be the penalty if people disobey and refuse to register their fingerprints?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u14	Mr Colebunders, the Regulation (EU) 2019/1157 obliges Belgium to add fingerprints to Belgian identity cards in a consistent manner, such as when issuing residence permits for third-country nationals and travel passes. Each newly issued European identity card shall contain the fingerprints as from 2 August 2021. As in my previous reply to Mrs Gabriels' oral question, I can reiterate that I have taken note of the report of a KU Leuven research group, which states that it has insufficient insight into the ICT security measures taken by the government to protect fingerprints, but of course that is already a security measure in itself and that such sensitive matter is logically not described in a law. On the other hand, if the research group wishes to know who can access the data, it is sufficient to consult the law, where this is described in Article 6 (2). Digital storage, although temporary, was chosen to do so in the same way as third-country nationals' travel passes and residence permits, as has been the case since 2013 and are also kept for three months. This corresponds to a period that a citizen is expected to collect his identity card. Today, my services have no knowledge of any leaks of fingerprints in third-country nationals' travel passes and residence permits, despite the fact that they have been stored digitally for six years in the same way. Furthermore, the direct loading of fingerprints on the identity card is not at all safer than the central storage. The central storage is done on a secure site, after which no changes to the biometric data can be made. If there is a possibility of this happening on the municipal administration, the risk of security incidents is just higher. For example, fingerprints could still be applied to stolen documents from people similar to the card applicant. By personalizing fingerprints in the central location prior to their delivery, look-alike fraud is avoided. The reduction of identity fraud is indeed a fact and is mainly established on the documents that already contain fingerprints. Adding fingerprints to the identity card will therefore reduce this form of fraud even more. Finally, no identity card can be issued to people who refuse to register their fingerprints. From then on, they will no longer be able to prove their identity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u16	Minister, since 6 October, the Tihange 2 reactor has been shut down. This was caused by too high a temperature in a pump in the nuclear part of the plant and was expected to last 2 weeks. On ENGIE Electrabel's Transparency site, it is indicated that this stop was planned. However, we have the impression that this is an incident. On 18 October, a postponement of the reactor restart was announced by ENGIE Electrabel. It is now expected that the reactor will remain stationary until November 17, which is six weeks off and three times longer than previously announced. Minister, what is the cause of this extension of the shutdown time of the Tihange 2 reactor? Have any additional pump maintenance operations been scheduled? Was the condition of the pump, or some other part of the cooling system, worse than what was expected? To the extent that the initial shutdown was to last two weeks, why was the postponement of the restart of the Tihange 2 reactor so late? What are the guarantees that a new postponement will not be announced and that the reactor will indeed restart on 17 November?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u17	Dear colleague, during the weekend of October 5 and 6, the temperature of one of the engine components of one of the three Tihange 2 primary pumps increased. These primary pumps are part of the reactor's cooling circuit and are therefore within the nuclear part of the plant. However, the increased temperature remained below the limits recommended by the manufacturer and is not subject to legal requirements. As a precautionary measure, the operator decided to stop the reactor early in order to be able to diagnose the pumps. It was therefore not an emergency stop but a manual shutdown of the reactor, which was planned several hours before the intervention and which was carried out in accordance with the operating procedures. An initial analysis by the operator showed that further investigation was necessary and that the entire engine had to be removed. In the meantime, an alternative engine would be installed and would assume the role of the engine that was the subject of the in-depth investigation. The operator had also planned, at the time of the next reactor shutdown, to carry out tests on certain steam valves in the secondary circuit. The operator therefore performed these tests, which demonstrated that one of the valves required thorough maintenance as it did not fully meet the opening criteria. The FANC can confirm that the safety procedures in this incident were correctly followed by the operator. The security authority was informed correctly and in good time. The procedures were also correctly applied to shut down the reactor. During the operations undertaken by the operator, the usual procedures were correctly followed. The FANC can therefore confirm that there has been no risk to the safety of workers and residents and that there has been no impact on the environment. Finally, with regard to your last question, ENGIE Electrabel's website dedicated to transparency is linked to the competition rules of the energy market. As a result, the AFCN has no regard for the vocabulary used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer. That judgment was therefore not intended. It's probably not the right language. I thank you for the clarification, since it was indeed a slillegging manual, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u19	The next item on the agenda is one of the items I have tabled. Do you agree that I am putting it down from the bench of the Presidency?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u20	It is customary for the Chair to ask her questions at the end of the question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u21	In that case, I'll put it down at the end of the session. Questions Nos 5500913C and 5500914C by Mr Emir Kir and 5500919C by Mr Eric Thiébaut are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u22	Madam President, Minister, diverse research shows that firefighters have an increased risk of cancer. The Belgian fire suits also contain carcinogenic substances. The unions carried out the campaign "Fire out, danger over?'. It is useful to look at the follow-up. Firefighters come into contact with a lot of products. The main problem seems to be the defective disinfection of the material after use. The coats end up in the fire trucks and the locker rooms, while they appear to contain a lot of toxic substances. We also notice that most firefighters live seven to eight years less than the average human being. What measures are being taken to clean the contaminated material after exposure to toxic substances? What investments are being made in, for example, the laundry rooms in barracks? Research shows that the most effective method is high pressure cleaning with CO2. This process would remove up to 98% of the harmful substances. To what extent is this method used in the Belgian fire department? Are you considering making additional resources available for the generalisation of this procedure? To what extent is the cleaning of fire equipment carried out by a regulated procedure? Is sufficient attention paid to this during training? Fire zones have a certain degree of autonomy. In what sense, for example, are the procurement of material or the cancer prevention guidelines uniformised? At the request of the trade unions, you went to the High Health Council to ask for advice on the use by the fire department of phosphonate gloves. Have you received an answer yet? What is the directive on the use of phosphonate gloves in the fire department?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, together with the prevention advisors of the fire zones, after the campaign "Fire out, danger was over?" a procedure for the decontamination of contaminated clothing. This procedure must be carried out at the point of intervention and, if it is to be carried out correctly, it must prevent the spread of carcinogenic substances. The procedure has been validated as a "standard operating procedure" and is offered as best practice to the zones. Basically, this procedure does not allow clothes to be washed in the barracks themselves, unless in specially built, enclosed spaces and with the necessary protective clothing. My services are not aware of the number of zones using this method. It is up to the zones themselves to apply a procedure and to make the necessary investments. In the field of well-being at work, each zone should provide for a procedure to prevent the risk of the spread of carcinogenic and other contaminated substances. The Civilian Security Knowledge Centre has validated a decontamination procedure. This procedure is included in training and applies to the whole territory if it is to be applied and investment undertaken. I haven't received any advice from the Supreme Health Council yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u24	Mr Minister, I am very concerned, because we have had several hearings on this subject in recent weeks, as a result of the civil security reforms, some areas are moaning financially. The discussion about who pays what is still going on. The 50/50 scheme is far from complete. I suspect it will be waiting for a very long time. I have the impression that people prefer to spend as little as possible both at federal and municipal level. I have a history with Ford, as you know. A preventative accident or occupational disease is much cheaper in the long term than a human life. I would therefore ask you once again, Minister, to impose an urgent and real obligation on this matter. It must not remain in good intentions alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u25	Question No 5500921C by Mr Emir Kir is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u26	Madam President, Minister, it is a surprising situation for me to say the least: the officers of the police administration (CALOG) receive a remuneration of skills from which social contributions are levied, which is quite normal. But these contributions, obviously, do not abound the pension paid to these agents. This is because a royal decree would not have been taken in that direction. As the appropriate minister, can you tell me what is happening? How is it that these contributions are not paid to retired agents? Where are these contributions housed? When are you going to take this order to restore the agents to their rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the granting of a skills development allowance for members of the staff of the CALOG of the Integrated Police is an additional treatment which can be taken into account in the calculation of the public sector pension. To this end, a draft royal decree must also be submitted to the Council of Ministers. The Minister of Pensions responded to my written comments of February 22, 2019 that such a decision, given its budgetary impact, does not fall within the strict scope of day-to-day management. With regard to the retroactive effect and its possible application on already retired staff, I must refer you to my colleague, Minister of Pensions. The short response time allocated for an oral question does not allow me to determine the number of CALOG pensioners concerned, without taking into account their skill development allowance in the calculation of their pension. I suggest you introduce a written question. I will then provide you with the digital data that I have. But the work required of the administration is considerable because the number of CALOG staff is fluctuating. In addition, CALOG pensioners very often have a mixed career. Many come from other governments, and even from the private sector. In order to give correct answers, it will be necessary to produce a great deal of coherence work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u28	Minister, thank you for your response. As you suggested and as I was going to propose, I will complete my question with a written question. If I sum up your thinking correctly, the royal decree cannot be taken as long as we are in business, given the budgetary impact. It would still be interesting if the members concerned could be informed of the situation. Moreover, since these agents are in expectation and in doubt, they should be reassured as to the future of this pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u29	Minister, this is a well-known phenomenon with regard to the police: it is not uncommon to see that the ongoing training provided to police officers is cancelled because the officers cannot go there without undermining the continuity of the service. At the very least, many officers are in a situation of being unable to train for these reasons. This is a phenomenon closely related to the workload and chronic understaffing dug by the Michel government. Recent hearings raise concerns that the phenomenon can now spread to firemen, both professional and voluntary. For the latter, these trainings add to their voluntary working time and their main job, leaving little room for family life and leisure. Minister, can you tell me what's going on? What is the number of mandatory or optional trainings for firefighters this past year? What is the attendance rate? What are the consequences for career or voluntary employment of a training deficit? What is the number of hours of training per year for firemen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u30	Dear colleague, professional and volunteer firefighters must complete a minimum of 120 hours of continuous training in each five-year period in order to be able to perform their duties effectively. This training is intended to complement and improve firefighters' skills. It is organized by fire schools and, except in the special cases provided for by the administrative statute, the firefighter who does not comply with this regulatory obligation is dismissed ex officio. My services do not have statistics on the number of ex officio resignations issued by relief zones on this basis. In addition, each professional or volunteer firefighter also has a minimum of 24 hours of continuous training per year. These are exercises organized by each relief zone. The number of hours of continuing training is determined independently of the number of hours of continuing training. Continuing training is organised according to the number of staff, the distribution of resources and the result of the zonal risk analysis. Continuing and continuing training is essential to ensure the safety of the firefighter and his/her colleagues and to ensure quality interventions for the citizen. As far as your question about the availability of volunteers in the three regions is concerned, a substantial part of the basic training can be taken into account as part of the education leave. For details and practical aspects, I invite you to read the ministerial circular of 10 November 2016 on education leave for volunteer firefighters. In this respect, it should be noted that the basic training and training required for hierarchical promotion are recorded as continuing training. With regard to the question of possible understaffing resulting from the increase in training obligations, I would like to point out that one of the components of the supplementary federal staffing is specifically intended to allow for additional commitments to compensate for this increase. The total amount of this component amounts to just over €82 million in 2019 for recruitment and investment aid. The allocation of the amounts of the basic and complementary federal allocations is, however, a matter of autonomy and therefore the responsibility of the relief zones themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u31	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer to the questions you have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u32	I propose to turn to Mr Senesael's question No 55001022C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u33	Madam President, without wishing to bother you, can we resume the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u34	Mrs Thibaut, I asked earlier whether there were any objections – and everyone was here – to group Mr Senesael's questions together. You then asked me to ask my question in the last place. Here too, the agenda has been changed. Among colleagues, we can be empathetic and understand each other, regardless of our party. I therefore propose to move on to Mr Seneseal's next question, since no one has objected before. When you ask me, I will be so empathetic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u35	Madam President, Minister, since the end of July, Ms Mazzara, President of the Internal FPS, has left her post to exercise new responsibilities as Director General of the Free University of Brussels. Since then, Mr Roosemont has acted as Chairman of the SPF. I think it is obvious to everyone that such an important public service deserves a full-time president. So, Minister, can you tell me what procedures have been put in place to replace Mrs Mazzara? When will the FPS have a full-time president? Furthermore, can you tell me what are the rules governing the appointment of an ad interim president in this kind of situation? In the current state of affairs, what is the linguistic distribution within the Executive Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u36	Madam President, Mr Senesael, the procedure for replacing the President of the Internal SPF, Mrs Mazzara, was launched on the website of the Selor at the beginning of September and the closing of the registrations was scheduled for 26 September this year. Since the procedure is managed by SPF BOSA and Selor, my services do not have a view of the timetable. In addition, a new president cannot be appointed as long as the government is in day-to-day business. It's always the same story... With regard to the rules for the appointment of an ad interim president, the Royal Decree of 29 October 2001 on the designation and performance of management functions in federal public services and federal public programming services provides in Article 20, § 3, the possibility of appointing a person as a temporary replacement. In addition, the linguistic distribution within the Executive Committee is as follows: two French-speaking representatives and four Dutch-speaking representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u37	Minister, thank you for this clear and precise answer. Let's wait until the day-to-day business is over. If they ever end...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u38	Madam President, Minister, the psychosocial burden in our police forces is particularly heavy. In difficult working conditions, in a job – the news has just reminded us in a horrific way – in essence dangerous and carrying heavy psychological pressure, there are recurring problems of understaffing, as well as structural weakness in psychosocial support services. At the beginning of August, a dramatic event took place, reminding us that this charge is sometimes so unbearable that it can lead some police officers to commit irreparable acts. A report by Committee P referred in 2008 to some 19 suicides per year in the police forces. Minister, what is the state of the situation today? What measures are being taken to assist police officers in such distress? What is the attitude towards colleagues, but also to families, who face a particularly painful grief?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u39	Madam President, Minister, on 10 October this year a Commissioner committed suicide. According to reports, the suicide would not be directly linked to the work situation. However, it seems appropriate to us to look proactively at the situation in the police, as the work is at the heart of our lives, especially with police officers. Between 2012 and 2018, the budget decreased by 15%, creating tensions. Police officers are duty-conscious people who are willing to make the necessary overtime when duty calls. Now, however, it seems that the goodwill of the agents is being used to bridge structural deficits. The unions complain that the work-life balance is becoming increasingly difficult. The cop's family or private life is about to get under tension. The macho culture within the police is also a threshold to talk about problems and seek help. This phenomenon is also intertwined with duty consciousness. Cops do not want to ask for help not to fall out so as not to cause any additional workload to fall on the shoulders of colleagues. In 2017, the suicide line made some recommendations. It may be useful to discuss the follow-up of this. Police officers complain that they are increasingly working overtime due to staff shortages. What do you think is the impact of this on the family life and mental health of police officers? Do you hear many signs of dissatisfaction about this? The suicide line made some recommendations in 2017. For example, it was proposed that police officers learn to adequately refer to the assisting authorities. Has there been any follow-up? Do police officers receive the necessary information to ensure the mental health of the corps? The suicide line recommended that every police investigation should take into account the possible psychosocial impact. Did something happen to this? In what way is mental health monitored in potentially disturbing situations faced by cops? What is the place of mental health during police training?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senesael, since 2017, the number of suicides has been decreasing, even if each case is too many. Sixteen suicides were recorded in 2016, eight in 2017, eleven in 2018 and seven in 2019. These figures relate to the entire integrated police force. Suicide is obviously not systematically linked to work. The overall approach to the prevention of the psychosocial risks of internal services and the internal prevention service of the federal police is, in this context, an important step in the prevention of suicides in the workplace. Mr Colebunders, the federal police have developed a prevention policy to prevent psychosocial risks. The stress team takes care of staff members who present, among other things, a suicidal problem and supports colleagues when such an event has occurred. This service also provides annual emotional supervision for staff members for whom the nature of the mission is particularly emotional in nature, in order to prevent and reduce the risk of developing stress, trauma or burn-out. The role of trustworthy persons and prevention advisers in internal and external occupational prevention and protection services is taken up again. In addition, since 2006, the subject of suicide has been the subject of specific reflection within the Federal Police in order to put in place preventive measures. Training and awareness-raising of the line of command are part of these measures. This is why this theme is taken up in the course of training and personal and professional development of managers. At the level of the National Police Academy, many training courses on suicide prevention are provided several times a year. Mr Colebunders, when a police investigation or an emotional case is particularly difficult, the stress team of the federal police provides emotional debriefings to the employees involved in these investigations. This is the case with family dramas or other particularly impacting things. Special attention has been paid to this issue at the level of the national police academy and recognised police schools. From initial training onwards, police officers are made aware of the problem of stress management and the recognition of their signals, even though it is mainly up to them to provide guidance at this stage of their career, so that they can protect themselves from the risks of the profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u41	Minister, thank you for your answer and for the figures on the evolution of the number of suicides. As you say, of course, suicide cannot be linked to the occupation. In any case, I welcome the fact that specific consideration is being given to preventive measures. It is at this stage that we really need to take action. Police academies also take up this problem with arms to ensure that training is provided. It might be interesting to follow up on these trainings. Do police academies have an evaluation of the training provided? What psychological aspects do they affect those who receive it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have indicated that the number has fallen in recent years. That is why I shall come back to what I said in my question. The answer to the question of whether or not the policy has been successful is a question of happiness for the people concerned. That is why I am focusing more on prevention policy. You say that there is investment in certain aspects, as well as in training and notification. I would have liked to have seen the directives issued in the context of prevention policy. Can we have it handed over? A second aspect is that we are really getting signals from looking away because of the manpower problem. After all, if an agent is sent, it is out of service for a certain time, which does not benefit the manpower. That aspect calls for attention. There may be a lot that can be solved if there is sufficient funding for the recruitment of more police personnel, but that is another discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u43	Mr Colebunders, I will let you deliver the guidelines. At the end of this committee meeting, you can contact Mr Van Belleghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that you move on to Mr Clarinval's questions as proposed and decided earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u45	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u46	Excuse me, but I asked earlier if there was any objection and you didn't show up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u47	Madam President, it is normal that not everyone should be in committee at the beginning of the questions. An agenda is proposed. We cannot imagine that the Members of Parliament, upstream, asked the President to organise the work and that we will then move on to the last one. This is extremely special and disturbing!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u48	There's nothing special. I have sought the opinion of all the Members who were present at the opening of the sitting. No one objected. On the other hand, you are the only one who asked me to postpone my question at the end of the meeting when there is no obligation for me to do so and I have agreed to your request. Mr Clarinval, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u49	Madam Chair, if my information is good, the minister announced at the beginning of the session that he was not left. Until what time will the minister be present? It is important to know this with regard to the organization of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u50	I didn't hear that. Minister, what about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u51	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u52	The minister will stay with us. If we do not waste time, we will have finished at a correct hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u53	Madam President, I would like to speak. Earlier, I was not there to ask my question. I would like to make a number of comments here, and to the minister in particular. I was told you said it wasn't your fault I was on the train. Of course, it is not your fault, but it is not mine either if there is a total disruption of the Commissions' service! I want to explain the problem to you and I don't think I'm the only one who knows it. I was scheduled for fourth place two days ago. Yesterday, in the afternoon, I found myself in 30th place. Before I went to bed, at midnight, I looked again; I was still thirtieth. This morning, at 06:00, I was still 30. So, if you'll excuse me, no, I didn't come by 10:00. I would also like to say that yesterday in the Health Committee, after two postponements, I was finally able to ask my question. That in the Committee on Justice it was indicated yesterday that I had a question but it disappeared in the afternoon. The same applies to the Committee on the Economy, where my question was in thirteenth place when it has now disappeared again. This afternoon, in the Committee on Mobility, I had the question on point 10. She went to point 42. There is a real problem in the Commission Service! No one may be responsible here, but neither should we be blamed. Excuse me: I was on the train; I wasn't shopping. I had arranged to come to a meeting that had already been postponed twice because, once again, of this disorganisation of committees. What should be done? Sleep here? Will we be provided with a bed to be present on all commissions, since we never know when we are going?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u54	Mrs. Dedonder, I don't think you have to justify yourself. If there are disruptions, it is that there are certainly administrative and technical difficulties. I am counting on the Conference of Presidents, which should take place so that information can be brought back and solutions found.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u55	I would also like to ask my question because my absence is beyond my control.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u56	Minister, I think that in the circumstances, it is important that Ms.Dedonder be able to ask her question, which you answered earlier. I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u57	Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u58	If you don't mind, let's turn to Mr. Clarinval's questions. I will then give the floor to Mrs Dedonder.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u59	Madam President, I would like to say that I have asked for this opportunity because I have to attend the Conference of Presidents at 12 noon. I did not wish to create a problem among colleagues, hence the meaning of my request in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u60	I'm bowing!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u61	There's no problem. I also accepted Mr Senesael's request. I wished to respond favourably to the requests that were justified. Don't worry, you'll be released at noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u62	Madam President, I find this rather embarrassing. The Royal Circus is around the corner, the first street on the right. I believe that we are expected to be a little more serious here. At least I hope so. This is really ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u63	Let's go! Let's get to work!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u64	Minister, you have recently changed the rules governing the organisation of cycling races, by the Royal Decree of 28 June 2019 regulating cycling races and off-road races. These rules set up a reference mayor who, in most cases, will be the mayor of the finish commune of the race. The latter is entrusted with a number of new and heavy skills in terms of responsibility and workload. For example, he must now request authorizations for the full route and hold a multidisciplinary coordination meeting four weeks before the race to define the responsibilities of each of the parties. In addition, a safety car was previously required to travel the race route to ensure the presence of the signallers, and to warn the organizers of the potential dangers. We can't find that car in the new rules anymore. These new rules, among others, are a cause for concern to the mayors and the organizers of cycling races. Minister, can you tell me why this Royal Order was drafted? Were the rules in force so far problematic? If so, what were the problems encountered? Prior to the drafting of this royal decree, did you meet with race organizers both in the north and in the south of the country, as well as representatives of the municipal and provincial authorities? If so, what has emerged from these consultations? Why are the coordination responsibilities, formerly assigned to the governors because of their supra-local responsibilities, now entrusted to the reference mayors? What happens if a mayor refuses or finds himself in material inability to fulfil his new obligations? What steps could you take to improve the situation? Is it possible to review the Royal Decree and to make a return to the previous system, i.e., coordination competence vested in the governors, and the presence of a safety car?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u65	Mr.Clarinval, the Royal Decree of 21 August 1967 regulating cycling and cyclocross races did not meet the current circumstances prevailing in the organization of the races. The composition of the working group responsible for drafting a new royal decree was very varied and had a fixed number of members, including representatives of the specialized provinces, the Association of Cities and Municipalities, cycling federations and local and federal police. This group was also heard by a number of other representatives. I therefore believe that all the interested parties you mention have been involved in the implementation of this new regulation. Nothing changes in the competence of the mayors or governors. Each mayor remains competent to ensure security in his territory. On the basis of the risk assessment, the Governor may refer to section 128 of the Provincial Act and assume a coordinating role in maintaining law and order in his or her province. The reference mayor received only an initiator role in coordination, in a few administrative tasks formerly assigned to the mayor from the start of the cycling race. As far as capacity is concerned, the reference mayor cannot, of course, intervene personally. To this end, it may call upon its Emergency Plan Coordinator or another municipality, or the police. If he so wishes, the governor can still take over the coordination. Nor was the use of a safety vehicle provided for in previous legislation. If they deem it necessary, organizers may use a safety vehicle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u66	Thank you, Minister. Could I have a list of those who participated in this working group?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u68	That seems important to me. You specify that we can, either on the initiative of the governor or at the request of a mayor, ask the governor to continue to coordinate things. It wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u69	This has not changed anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u70	In any case, in the province of Namur, that is not how it is perceived. Neither the governor's services nor the organizers of cycling races see it as a difficulty. I hear you're bringing a solution that seems very interesting to me. You also specify that the car can always be put in place by the organizers, whereas it was not in the royal decree. This seems useful to me, because otherwise we may have serious safety problems in future races. Here you bring elements to reassure the actors on the ground. I will not fail to inform them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u71	Minister, in January 2019, the press was echoing a record absenteeism in 2018 within the integrated police force. Some newspapers reported a rate of more than 8%. In order to control its progress, in 2018 the Federal Police set up a "Absenteeism" programme focusing on the well-being of staff, disease monitoring, the reintegration process and the management of absences. In some areas, however, absenteeism continues to pose some difficulties. It is a phenomenon that is not always easy to understand because of its multifaceted nature. Therefore, Minister, do you have estimates of the rate of absenteeism due to illness for the first three quarters of 2019? If so, what are the figures? Can you put these figures in perspective with those of previous years? Can you also disaggregate them for the federal police and for the local police? What about long-term absenteeism? What is the trend for 2019? Can you recall the "Absenteeism" plan implemented in 2018? What are the concrete measures? In your opinion, is it bearing its fruit as expected? What additional measures could you take to try to limit police absenteeism?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u72	My colleague, with regard to your first two questions, I propose that you address them in writing, given the quantitative nature of the figures requested and the necessary analysis of my services within a particularly short period of time. The "Absenteeism" programme is a programme that has been developed for the integrated police force. Subsequently, this programme was developed in various working groups, grouped by theme and composed of experts from the integrated police and trade union representatives. Some roadmaps with different action points were tested in June 2019, others in October 2019, and in some 60 local and federal police services. A new system for monitoring absences has also been introduced at the level of this programme. The creation and development of the necessary tools for this monitoring is carried out by ICT information management and will soon be finalized. It should be pointed out that the monitoring of absences is currently carried out only for services and test areas. The various measures proposed in the test are: a definition of common absenteeism for the integrated police; a registration, monitoring, monitoring of absences and diseases, unique for the entire integrated police force with a view to reducing absenteeism; better follow-up by the human resources department, the medical consultant and the occupational doctor, not forgetting reintegration after a long-term illness, after taking care of these same levels of follow-up and the supervisor; various concrete actions to be carried out in the framework of prevention in the fields of ergonomics, movement and reduction of stress, well-being, safety and psychosocial; various actions in the framework of prevention and follow-up of accidents at work and in that of violence against police officers, for example the recognition of post-traumatic stress disorder. An initial evaluation of this programme and monitoring are planned for the end of 2019 and an interim report is also planned for the beginning of 2020. The test programme will be evaluated a second time after the first half of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u73	Minister, I would like to turn my first two questions into written questions. But understand that the challenge is to get answers within a reasonable time frame. I trust you and hope to receive the requested information quickly. Do I have to file my questions formally?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u74	Mr Clarinval, I propose that after your speeches, you have contact with Mr. Van Belleghem to set a concrete framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u75	All right! I'll get in touch with him. With regard to monitoring, I will come back to it after the evaluation at the end of 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u76	Minister, the new Act of 2 May 2019 on the amendment of the words "divorced" and "widow/widow" in administrative acts entered into force on 21 July 2019. The aim of this law is simple: divorced persons are shown this mention in many administrative documents, for example in the Social Security Bank. For some of them, however, it is a difficult or even stigmatizing experience that reminds them of painful memories. The same applies to widows. In order to be fully operational, the Act of 2 May 2019 requires you, Mr.Minister, to draw up, by royal decree, a list of acts for which reference to divorce or widowhood is necessary. For documents where this is not strictly necessary, persons who so wish may opt for the word "single" without having to indicate the reason for this choice. The terms of such an application for amendment must also be determined by royal decree. Minister, my questions are very simple. What about the drafting of this royal decree? When do you think you can adopt it? What difficulties have been encountered so far? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u77	Madam President, another question was attached; my answer will be mixed, in Dutch and French. Mr Clarinval, the implementation of the law of 2 May 2019 on the change of the reference "from the truly separate" and "widower/widower" in administrative documents effectively raises problems. In particular, the implementation of the law seemed to be contrary to the requirements of the European General Data Protection Regulation, which I will now refer to as GDPR, in particular the principle of minimum data processing, under which personal data should be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes for which they are processed. Firstly, the law empowers the King to establish the list of documents for which communication of the civil status of a citizen is necessary. The GDPR imposes the power on each government in a broad sense to determine, within its domain of competence, which information should be included in their documents and administrative documents according to the rules set out in that same GDPR. The reference to the civil status must therefore not only pursue a legitimate purpose, but must also be adequate, relevant and limited in the sense of the GDPR. Secondly, the law also states the following, and I quote: 'In that list a distinction is made between the documents for which the preservation of the terms 'from the really separated' or 'widower/widower' is strictly necessary and the documents for which this is not the case'. Well, according to the principle of minimum data processing, a personal data may not be disclosed if it is not proportionate to the objective pursued. Taking into account the GDPR, it would therefore seem impossible to draw up such a list. Secondly, Mr Clarinval, the law stipulates that, apart from the documents listed in § 1, the authorities which have access to the National Register of Natural Persons or the Social Security Bank do not mention the civil status of the persons concerned on the documents they produce. This paragraph does not require an implementing order. This is the application of the principle of minimization already mentioned. However, I would like to point out that it is up to all the bodies which have access to personal data, including civil status, to process such data in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), regardless of whether or not such data are from the National Register or the Social Security Bank. Finally, the Act of 2 May 2019 allows citizens, where the retention of the words "divorced", "widow" is not strictly necessary, to request that these words be replaced by the words "single". The King must determine the modalities of this request. However, as I explained earlier, in the light of the GDPR and the principle of minimization, if a reference is not strictly necessary, namely whether it is not adequate, relevant and limited, it must be omitted. So this paragraph seems to be moot. In view of the above and in the current state of the law of 2 May 2019, it is therefore not possible to determine how this law is to be implemented. That is why I have asked for a legal opinion on the possibility of enforcement of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u78	Minister, your answer leaves me a little puzzled. Indeed, if I understand you correctly - but I will read your answer carefully - on the one hand, the constraints of the GDPR and, on the other hand, the difficulty of the question make it impossible to draft the royal decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u79	What are you saying?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u80	It is not possible to draft this royal decree. In other words, if I understand correctly, the law is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u81	It is possible to draft it, but since it is a very complicated matter with considerable consequences, I have asked for an opinion from the legal department of my department, which seems to me to be a normal procedure under the conditions we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u82	Do you think you can have this legal opinion quickly? Indeed, it would be interesting if the law could be corrected if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u83	I will insist that this be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u84	Madam President, Minister, your predecessor had announced with great media reinforcements the installation along the French border of what he called an ANPR camera "shield". In practical terms, these tools allowing the automatic recognition of registration plates are a valuable aid in the fight against, inter alia, stolen car trafficking and cross-border crime. As such, such a facility is also part of cross-border police and customs cooperation with France. An essential point since the increase in delinquency in the border area around Lille-Courtrai-Tournai had led to agreements known as the Tournai II agreements. Minister, have these cameras been installed everywhere along the French border? Are they active in all the provinces concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u85	Mrs Dedonder, I have already answered the question and will therefore repeat my answer. It was linked to a question asked by Mr Colebunders. Your question refers more specifically to the announcements and work done by my predecessor. In the first phase of the ANPR shield, operational in 2017, cameras were placed at all border crossings, along motorways, in both directions, for incoming and outgoing traffic. In addition to the French border, this was also done along the Luxembourg, German and Dutch borders. ANPR cameras are active in all neighbouring provinces. Some are limited by two borders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u86	Thank you, Minister. So, as far as the Tournai area is concerned, they are very active?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u87	If I'm not mistaken, the Tournai area is close to France, the cameras are active.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u88	I'm going to check because my sources contradict that statement. Thank you for agreeing to answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u89	Minister, I do not need to outline the context. As you know, following a judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2015, an end-of-life system was set up for the police. This end-of-life scheme was funded by the federal government from 2016 to 2019. Its funding is uncertain by 2020. The individual statutory right to NAVAP exists and some policemen can rely on it, but funding is transferred to local authorities. At the moment, there is a great deal of concern for local authorities because they are preparing their zonal security plans 2020-2025 and they should know what financial resources they have at their disposal. I hear worried chiefs, financial directors and mayors say that the lack of funding of the NAVAP, which is still a right that can be incorporated, worries them. In addition to the usual tasks, they were already assigned many additional tasks by the federal police, for which they do not receive funding and on top of that there is the general shortage of staff, for which some local authorities also match. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, can you assure me that if one or more months were to be worked with provisional twelfths by 2020, sufficient federal credits would be provided for the financing of the NAVAP? Secondly, how far does the formalisation of funding for 2020 stand in a royal decree, as was the case between 2016 and 2019 with various royal decrees? This can give the local authorities certainty so that they can draw up their zonal security plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u90	Madam President, Mr Fonck had tabled a question on the same subject, so I will answer both questions. Mrs Vanrobaeys, in my reply I refer to the answer I gave at the committee meeting on 9 October on almost exactly the same oral questions by Mr Kattrin Jadin and Mr Daniel Senesael. So far, no federal appropriations have been provided for the NAVAP system for the financial year 2020. Yesterday I had the opportunity to be in the Arlon area, where I was also asked the question. With a view to preparing the 2020 budget, I have taken the initiative to present a proposal to extend the current funding mechanism, but my proposal has not been accepted due to budgetary prudence. We have had discussions on this at the Council of Ministers and in the nuclear cabinet. I still believe that the timely financing mechanism should be extended until 2020, pending a global agreement on pensions. We are looking within the government for a solution to finance those who want to use that system. Mrs Fonck, funding will be provided only for those who applied to NAVAP. Persons who continue the work will continue to be considered as an ordinary staff member and no subsidy will be granted to them. At present, the members of staff who are no longer active, but also those who continue to work will benefit from the special rules. Consequently, the advantage that the NAVAP system may have an impact on pension formation is insufficient to cover the totality of its funding. The members of staff who continue to work provide benefits for which they are simply paid, and this does not result in additional costs for the operation of the police zones. This part of my answer is rather technical and may seem a bit crooked, but I translated it directly from French. Specifically, the system is currently valid and I will try to extend it. It applies to those who apply for it. Those who remain in active employment cannot claim it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope you can extend the system. Local authorities wish to obtain certainty on this issue so that they can draw up their multiannual budget. I would indeed find it rather crazy, should that system not be extended, since it is an end-of-life scheme set up by the federal government, which makes sense to me that the federal government is responsible for financing it. If not, that would mean buying a car tomorrow and sending the invoice to the town hall of Aalter. That would be awesome. I hope that you will be able to provide certainty about this in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u92	If it was an electric car, we could still consider it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u93	Let's go on with the work. Joined Questions Nos 5500946C and 5500949C of Mr Thiébaut are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u94	Madam President, Minister, an Extinction Rebellion action took place on Saturday 12 October. About a thousand protesters gathered at the Palais Square for a public meeting on the climate crisis and to put pressure on the government. They thus exercised their constitutional rights to peacefully protest in public space. There were many families with children, there were elderly and minors present. The action was announced two weeks in advance and prior to the action police negotiations had been launched to make it clear that it was a peaceful and non-violent action. The protesters, however, had to deal with heavy police repression. The police used water cannons, pepper spray and mattress to fight the peaceful protesters. A little over 400 people would have been arrested. Some people fainted or peeed in their pants because of the stress and because they had to wait for hours on the cold ground. At least one person was hit by pepper spray while he was handcuffed to the ground. Several sources contradict each other about the number of arrests. You gave the correct figure last week in plenary, 423. The likely number of arrests is extremely high in relation to the number of demonstrators. Do you consider the behaviour of the police against the climate activists to be defendable and proportionate? Was the order given to apprehend as many people as possible? If so, what was the reason behind this? Wasn't it possible to clear the square without so many arrests? One agent is already under investigation. Are any other individuals marked? Is the whole police action being investigated, too? What were the guidelines on the use of force? Is there any response to the criticism of police action by the civilian movement? Did your department have a guideline on how to handle Extinction Rebellion's action? Who gave the final order to clear the Palace Square? What is the general directive that you, as Minister of Security, give in relation to civil disobedience in the context of climate activism? If such actions are still taking place, what guidelines will you give to the federal police? I come to my second question. We read a lot of reports about police brutality. Is there an official figure of the number of wounded? How many people were cared for and possibly hospitalized? Thirdly, pepper spray is a weapon that the police can only use for self-defense and not as a pressure agent. After the police actions against Extinction Rebellion activists, an investigation was launched into an officer who would have sprayed pepper spray in someone's face while this person had already been arrested and was no longer a threat. According to the RB on police armament, pepper spray should not be used in a reactive manner, for example to break passive resistance, to support reactive operations or to facilitate collective arrests in the context of an event. If we use the law as a standard, it seems to me that the pepper spray was not only used unlawfully in the extreme case we discussed above but also in several police actions against demonstrations. At demonstrations, however, we see that pepper spray is often used as a collective pressure agent. Doesn't that constitute an infringement of the law as quoted here? What guidelines are there for the riot police on the use of pepper spray against demonstrators? Is any use of pepper spray critically evaluated regarding proportionality? According to your information, are there many cases of breaches of the legislation on the use of pepper spray on demonstrations? Is there a great deal of follow-up to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u95	Minister, here are my questions about the alleged violence during the Extinction Rebellion demonstration on 12 October. Have you requested and obtained a report on the course of events? What are the main conclusions? What justified the use of self-pumps, tear gas and such a force? Who has taken the decision to implement these disproportionate means of action? How have you or the federal police reacted to the local police area in the face of these overburdens? Do you confirm to me that an investigation has been opened into the manner in which the security forces have evacuated Royal Square in Brussels? Who is responsible for carrying it out? Were the federal police or the P Committee asked to carry out or accompany this investigation? How long are the results expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u96	Colleagues, half a question has already been answered in plenary last week. I will answer all your questions, but in fact the Rules of Procedure require the services to say that, when a question has already been asked, that part is no longer part of a question. However, I will answer everything. On October 12th, the police arrested 435 activists of Extinction Rebellion. The activists tried to occupy the gardens of the royal palace and cast blockades around and on the Koningsplein, within the neutral zone. That neutral zone should be protected at all times. In the event of an offence, action must be taken immediately. For me, this includes zero tolerance. I will ask the Crisis Centre and the senior official of Brussels to look into this in particular. It is not possible for demonstrators, in this case climate activists, to try to put almost physical pressure on democratically elected people and our country's decision-makers. My services report that during the police action against the activists of the climate group Extinction Rebellion, four wounded, two policemen and two civilians, have been officially noted. One policeman was taken care of and taken to the hospital. The other persons were not or refused to receive care. For me, it is quite clear that any demonstration must be carried out on the basis of a thorough and neutral prior risk analysis and in the same way, with everyone's safety as an absolute priority. As regards the preparation of the police for the manifestation of Extinction Rebellion, my services have informed me that Extinction Rebellion has refused any prior dialogue and has deliberately stressed that it will break the law. The preparation of the police and the management of the manifestation took place as stipulated in the current guidelines on the pledged management of the public space following events of interest to public order. During the demonstration, the corps leadership decided, at a time when physical compulsion was no longer sufficient, to use the spray truck and tear gas because the activists were refusing to leave the place and, on the contrary, their occupation was still increasing. Within the Brussels zone, an average of a thousand demonstrations take place every year. It looks at what strategy, tactics and techniques will be used for a new way of acting, in which, as we have seen, any dialogue is refused and deliberately decides to break the law. The Royal Decree of 6 June 2010 on the uniform of the two-tiered integrated police was thus amended as follows: On the one hand, it is intended that when the authority decides to replace the nameplate with an intervention number for certain interventions, only this intervention number is mentioned on the nameplate. On the other hand, the annex determining the brewer model is adapted to include the reference to that intervention number. The regulatory arrangements for the identification of members of the operational framework of the police services have therefore been adopted. This ensures compliance with the basic principle of section 41 of the Police Function Act. The identification of members of the operational framework of the police services is made possible in all circumstances, either by means of the nameplate or by means of the intervention number. I now turn to the follow-up and investigation of these actions. The Chief of Corps ordered an investigation into the use of CS spray and the management of persons arrested at the Central Division. I'm just waiting for the results. All these decisions were taken by the head of the corps under the administrative authority of the mayor of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u97	Minister, if politicians want to avoid physical pressure, I would advise them to tackle the climate crisis in particular. This seems to me to be a greater danger to public order than the activists themselves. We are not bureaucrats who should feel legally obliged to beat up any act of civil disobedience. This is just absurd. The climate crisis is very real and that is why we think it is understandable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u98	Do you speak on your behalf, on behalf of your party or as spokesman for Extinction Rebellion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u99	I speak on behalf of my party.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u100	You disguise yourself as a spokesperson for Extinction Rebellion when I hear you so busy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u101	We also have a climate plan, Minister, like many other parties. The climate crisis is very real. This is also in the party program of many parties. We therefore consider it understandable that there are actions and civil disobedience. We don't think it's normal for this to happen. We therefore particularly want to hear from you what your guidelines were. What guidelines will you provide for possible future actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u102	Minister, I understand that you are developing new strategies to respond to these forms of civil disobedience, which are a means of highlighting administrative arrests. Many protesters expected to do so, but they were surprised by the violence that took place during the demonstration. You talked about the working conditions of the police services, referring to stress, lack of manpower or even under-equipment. These phenomena must of course be taken into account. However, it is equally important to assess the behaviour observed during this event and to identify gaps or errors in the performance of a law enforcement mission. Of course, an internal investigation has been carried out by the head of the corps, but we also hope that Committee P will investigate the organisation of the chain of command and answer the question of the legality and proportionality of the police response. If this is not the case, we will, in our capacity as parliamentarians, question the Chair of Committee P.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u103	Mr Minister, on Saturday morning, 12 October, a De Lijn inspector was attacked by a 20-year-old man with a metal rod in the subway station under Antwerp-Central. In the meantime, the defendant was arraigned for attempted manslaughter and was fortunately apprehended. A first strike could partially block the inspector with his arm, on which he ran. The aggressive perpetrator started the chase and hit several times with the metal rod on the back of the victim's head. The victim lost consciousness several times and lost a lot of blood due to the various head injuries. He was taken to the hospital and is incompetent for at least ten days. From the victim's perimeter, I learned that the unsub was going to be a processed asylum seeker. So an illegal migrant, who already disobeyed at least one order to leave the territory. In addition, we heard that the unsub would already be known to the court. Mr. Secretary, is it true that the unsub is a deported illegal migrant? Is it true that the unsub was also already known to the court? In order to be able to conduct the debate with all the facts and figures, I would also like to know how many crimes committed by illegal migrants took place in 2017, 2018 and 2019. I would also like to know how many crimes committed by illegal migrants took place in 2017, 2018 and 2019 after they were given the first order to leave the territory and therefore should not have been in our country for a long time. What will you do to drastically reduce these figures, of course within your powers as Minister of Current Affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u104	Mr Van Langenhove, you have just given me a title: Minister for Current Affairs. It's Minister of Home Affairs and Security in a government of ongoing affairs. With regard to your first two questions, I can inform you that the defendant in the Antwerp police area is known for the facts he committed on 12 October 2019 and for those facts only. As far as your other questions are concerned, neither the police area of Antwerp nor the federal police can at this time give a ruling on the effective residence status of perpetrators of crime. That is an important point of attention. Based on the information in the police database, the General National Database (ANG), it is possible to report on the suspects registered by the police and in particular on the sex, age and nationality of those suspects. A fundamental point here is that the police database does not rule on the guilty nature of the suspect. Whether the person in question is also effectively guilty or, in other words, can be considered as a perpetrator, there I can only refer to the criminal justice chain. So a suspect isn't necessarily the same as a perpetrator. Facts of common law, such as theft and violence committed by persons without legal residence status, cannot be removed from the ANG as such. The information or suspects whether or not they have received an order to leave the territory is not centrally available in my services. It is my colleague, responsible for the Department of Foreign Affairs, who can inform you about this. As far as your questions about the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 are concerned, I would be happy to give you the answers to them to the extent that I have all the data at my disposal. I will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u105	I hope, Minister, that the figures will be available very soon. I will also address your colleagues. We must indeed have a debate on the basis of facts and figures and not on the basis of impressions or emotions. I know that last Friday in Wetteren a group of Sudanese went looking for Eritreans and beat them up there, again with their favorite weapon, iron rods, and stabbed them. Those people were taken care of and then disappeared into illegality again. I therefore hope that you, as Home Affairs Minister in current cases, will do everything in your power to address this issue and that you will give your colleagues and especially your successors, both from the Interior, Justice and Asylum and Migration, that it should be a top priority for the new government to address the criminal offences committed by illegal immigrants and the associated security risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u106	Minister, there was some commotion earlier about a colleague who was stuck on the train. Maybe she was the victim of trackers. In any case, the problem of rail tracks has long been a problem. Infrabel announces that it wants to speed up its efforts to combat it, especially with regard to the repressive part. Sensitisation is needed, and it has been there for a long time, but it is apparently not enough. That is why, in addition to Securail and the Federal Police's railway police, Infrabel is also calling on the local police, which, as Mr Vanrobaeys said, is already overloaded. Police forces are being called in to push up the approach. So I am certainly not asking whether this action is necessary and will still be necessary in the future. My questions relate more to the work of these police forces. Mr Bruggeman's presentation to this committee at the beginning of October shows that the federal police face many challenges and problems. I will quote a number of things. There is a significant lag in digitalisation. There is a lack of optimal cooperation between first line services and local police. There is a greater need for personnel as a result of the continuing threat of terror. The federal police are also struggling with a large staff drop-out and loss, as has just been mentioned by several colleagues. I therefore have my reservations about the additional workload that Infrabel is passing on, and apparently will continue to move on to, among other things, the federal police forces. I come to my questions, Minister. When were there consultations between the Home Office, Infrabel and the police forces involved? What was the outcome of this consultation? Is there a division of labour between the services concerned, based on both costs and staff deployment? More importantly, is there any concrete planning for the repetition of such actions in the near and future? Have agreements been reached on the division of tasks and costs between the various services concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u107	Mr De Spiegeleer, the reform of the police in 1998-1999 also had an impact on the railway police. As a result of this reform, Article 16c of the law on police officers held the railway police above the font of baptism. This was combined by the government decision of 13 December 1996, which was translated into the Octopus Act of 1998, to which I referred earlier. In order to maintain the law and ensure safety in the railway domains or on and around the defined railway domains, the management of the Federal Railway Police is in close contact with its own privileged partners, in particular the SNCB and the manager Infrabel. Both preventive and repressive security actions are covered by the daily work of the Railway Police, not only to ensure the safety of rail passengers in the broad sense, but also national rail mobility. At the moment, I haven't determined a cost estimate or a key. As regards the division of tasks, each service intervenes only in its field of competence. As regards safety in general, in addition to the railway police, the agents of Securail may also act, which fall within the competence of SNCB itself. You've asked questions about a specific security operation. Preventive actions were planned, but they were without object, because there were no incidents of that kind just that night. I'll try to provide you with more punctual information on that. As your question was on today's agenda, my answer is currently limited. Many of the activities mentioned are, of course, carried out within the normally assigned tasks of the SNCB staff and the Railway Police. I will inform you more about the key and a cost estimate for a security action. I'll try to provide you with even more useful information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u108	In any case, Minister, your answer is broader in substance than that of your colleague from Mobility. I thank you for the promise to provide more in-depth information on this matter. After all, this is important for the local level, for our local police services. I understand that there are questions and concerns about what exactly is going to come to them. Anyway, I'll follow this up, maybe with argus eyes, since Infrabel isn't a champion when it comes to communication. So we will probably talk about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u109	Minister, on May 2, 2018, ENGIE Electrabel applied to the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), in conjunction with a licence application from the Walloon Region, for the construction of a new spent nuclear fuel storage shed. This is the technical term for these materials before they become nuclear waste. This project has, of course, raised many concerns among the municipalities concerned. Four of them issued a negative opinion both to AFCN and to the Walloon Region. Even the Dutch government expressed a negative opinion on this additional nuclear waste storage project in Tihange. If we look at the substance of the file, and look carefully at the permit application and all the technical texts that span several hundred pages, we realize, first, that the project is completely oversized. Until 2025, 53 locations would be required for spent nuclear fuel. However, ENGIE Electrabel explicitly requests space for 120 locations, more than double. Why? ENGIE Electrabel clearly states this in its technical notes. ENGIE is asking for space to be free from the framework of the law of exit from nuclear power and is already planning to produce waste until 2050. Secondly, and I am not saying it, but the ONDRAF, there are real questions about the security of the storage of these spent nuclear fuels over such a period of time. The licence application shall extend to at least 2100, i.e. for a period of more than 80 years. I would remind you that radioactive waste containers have a neutron protection valid for only 50 years. What is the status of the current procedure with AFCN? Last Friday, 18 October, the Walloon Region gave a clearly negative opinion. What about the federal government? To whom will the final decision on this matter be taken: to the Walloon Region or to the federal government, as to the content, of these radioactive materials? Finally, with respect to oversized buildings, can the federal government or the FANC say no? ENGIE Electrabel indicates without too much scruples, in his documents, that he wishes to free himself from the law of exit from nuclear power. Can the federal government put the point on the "i" and remind ENGIE Electrabel of its legal obligations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u110	Mr Cogolati, as you know, in this case it is important to distinguish between two procedures in force. The first is the regional procedure for planning permits. The second, which is the responsibility of the federal government, relates to the authorization for the construction and operation of a nuclear facility. For your information, please know that this is detailed in Article 6 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 which regulates the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation. The PSAN is analysing the comments that were made on the application for authorization during the public investigation. These are both the remarks made during the meeting, the opinions of the consulted ephemeral colleges and the permanent deputation. The Agency will then forward the dossier to the Scientific Council on Ionizing Radiation, which will have to deliver an opinion. Then it will be up to the legislator to decide in the form of decrees, taking into account the opinions given. With regard to your question on the planning permit, I would ask you to address it to the relevant regional minister, because that is not my prerogative. For your final question, you can consult ENGIE Electrabel's application for authorization on the AFCN website. I cannot tell you any more at this time, as the federal procedure for authorizing the construction and operation of the facility is being processed. It is therefore impossible for me to intervene. However, you will find interesting data on the AFCN website.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u111	Minister, thank you for your answers. Let me have a little more technical question. The Walloon administration gave a negative opinion, which appeared last Friday, according to which a jurisdictional problem arises between the federal and the Region. The latter does not wish to comment too much, because the former must give its opinion on radioactive materials. I understand the Walloon Region: it would be very difficult to give an opinion on the hangar, while ignoring its future content.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u113	Good! So it's the federal government that has to decide. My question is: Now that we know that the Walloon Region has said no to the hangar, is the federal government not blocked with regard to its decision on radioactive content? Secondly, what is the deadline? When will the PSAN submit its opinion to the Scientific Council? When will the King then have to make his arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u114	I have no indication of the chronology. It is customary for us not to intervene in proceedings relating to the actual action of the AFCN or its responsibilities. It is a theoretical and practical position. On the other hand, as far as the content is concerned, I will inquire. This is a highly technical aspect in an extremely complex subject matter. I am not trying to avoid answering you, but I have to check what I can communicate to you without intervening in a licensing process. I will provide you with all the information I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u115	Minister, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u116	Madam President, Minister, violence is becoming a real problem for relief services. Firefighters are increasingly facing the risk of physical and verbal aggression in the performance of their duties. In order to deal with this situation, it was recently reported that training for relief areas would soon be organized. In concrete terms, firefighters will learn the right behaviour to avoid an escalation of violence when they are victims of aggression. This is an initiative that I would like to welcome. Minister, can you provide us with an update on the number of reports issued last year for assaults in emergency areas, particularly in the Picardy Walloon emergency zone? When can these trainings be delivered to the relief areas? How? According to Colonel Marc Gilbert, commander of the Val de Sambre relief zone, more action should be taken on sanctions against perpetrators of attacks on firefighters in the performance of their duties. Can you remind us of the sanctions provided for in this framework? Are these sanctions effectively imposed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u117	Madam President, Mr Senesael, on the basis of the statistical data received from the Wallonia rescue zone by my services in 2017 (last year available), one physical assault and five verbal assaults were reported in the intervention reports. These data should be used with caution. These are facts reported by firefighters after an intervention. It is possible that acts of aggression may not be included in these statistics. Moreover, it is not certain that all the attacks mentioned by this relief zone have been the subject of a complaint to the police. On 30 September 2019, the Higher Council for the Training of Members of Public Emergency Services approved training to provide firefighters with the necessary tools to learn how to deal with situations of aggression, for example by teaching them preventive and defensive techniques. The Knowledge Centre for Civil Security (KCCE) will organize train-the-trainer training for fire schools as soon as possible. The latter will be able to organize training at the request of the relief areas. Article 400 bis of the Criminal Code provides for increased penalties for persons who commit crimes and offences referred to in articles 398 and 405 of the Criminal Code if they are committed, inter alia, against firefighters in the performance of their duties. Unfortunately, the application of these sanctions by the courts and tribunals is not within my jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u118	Minister, thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u119	Minister, the federal government reached a sectoral agreement last June. This one re-aligns, quite rightly, the police's scales. This revalorisation will have a very important cost for the finances of the police areas, which are, as you know, largely provided by the municipalities. An estimate shows more than €114 million more to be financed for police areas by 2023. This negotiation took place between the federal government and the unions. But what about the consultation with the local authorities and precisely through the consultation of the Council of Mayors? Three times in 2018, the Unions of the Towns and Municipalities of the country have asked the federal government on this subject, in order to ensure that the commitments made by the previous Minister of the Interior will be fulfilled. However, on 10 May last, the royal decree in question was approved by the government without any further clarification as to the financing of its object. As a mayor, I firmly hope, like all local agents living the realities of the field, that this revalorization for our police officers. However, I can testify that there is a great deal of concern in some police areas that are questioning the possibility of municipalities financing the measure. They know that budgets are never easy to close in order to cope with their regal missions. The communal allocation for the police area is steadily increasing. Are we in a position to achieve this increase without restricting further increases necessary for the proper functioning of police services? We are faced with urgent needs, particularly in terms of staffing. Most areas find it difficult, if not impossible, to recruit in spite of open posts. This requires additional cost-effective awareness campaigns and tools. As you know, we need to invest more and more in high-performance equipment, infrastructure and prevention equipment through video protection cameras, from prevention to burglary and other types of theft. In a word, nothing is worse than making decisions that cannot be effective. If one promises, one must be able to assume, collectively of course, but one assumes. We must therefore be able to consult each other. Minister, do you believe that the decision-making process has been followed? How high will the federal government intervene in the additional financial cost to police areas, which is linked to the outcome of its negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u120	Madam President, I believe that the decision-making procedure has been followed. As part of the sectoral negotiations, all preparatory meetings were organized with the active collaboration of the representatives of the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL). The representatives of the Unions of Cities and Municipalities have, moreover, always been invited to the Negotiating Committee as well as to all technical meetings held with representative trade union organisations. On 14 February 2014, the draft royal decree amending the legal pecuniary position of police personnel was submitted to the Council of Mayors, which gave a positive opinion. This draft royal decree was subsequently submitted to the opinion of the section of legislation of the Council of State which simply found, when examining the completion of the prior formalities, that the quorum was not reached at the meeting of the Council of Mayors on 14 February 2018 and that the preamble should therefore be adapted accordingly. With regard to the federal government's contribution to the additional cost of this sectoral agreement for police areas, a sum of EUR 4 500 000 has been provided for the latter in the 2019 federal government budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u121	And for 2020, you'll tell me we're in business and we can't prejudge what will be planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u122	Yes, it is. It all depends on the political circumstances. It also depends on the approval and benevolence of the Minister of Budget. But there is no lack of goodwill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-23-55-plenair-ip039x.u123	Minister, thank you for your answer.
