ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u2	By letter dated 28 October 2019, the Prime Minister transmits copies of the royal decrees of 27 October 2019 entitled "Government - Appointment" and "Government – Resignation - Appointment". By letter dated 28 October 2019, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decrees of 27 October 2019, entitled "Government of the Republic'. I would like to welcome Madam Prime Minister, on current matters. Madam Prime Minister, we both know what the regime of current affairs means. You have been an excellent link between the government and Parliament over the last few months and years. I wish you every success in the context of current affairs, together with the other ministers who joined your team.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u3	I would like to remind you that we had the debate last time on the amendments and the vote on the amendments. We have now come to the point where we have to give our opinion on the draft as a whole. I insist on that. The debate on the draft and the amendments took place. There is still the possibility of asking for the floor for a justification of the vote. As far as the explanation of vote is concerned, I would like to inform the House that an explanation of vote may take up to two minutes. The vote is the only item on the agenda, so I will be flexible, but you will have a maximum of two to three minutes per group. Is anyone asking for the floor? I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the government can ask for the floor at any time until before the final vote. Mr. Minister of Budget, for your Mayden speech?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I will not interfere with speaking time. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the government has heard the message from Parliament and takes note of the vote on the amendment, which increases the amount of provisional appropriations for the period November and December 2019 by EUR 67 million. The government understands the importance of taking into account the difficult situation of nurses, particularly in terms of workload. The government understands the importance of addressing the plight of nursing staff, particularly in terms of workload. However, the adopted text cannot be implemented directly for budgetary reasons. A provision in the provisional appropriations cannot effectively create a budgetary fund. On the basis of the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget and on the compatibility of the Federal State, the establishment of an organic fund requires an organic law which provides for certain revenue for certain expenditures and which is the subject of the law. However, this organic basis for the care staff fund is currently lacking. I also note that the amendment to the bill does not reflect the distribution between public and private hospitals. In the absence of an organic basis and a number of information, the budget document reproduces, on my initiative, an arbitrary distribution of 50/50. A legislative initiative will therefore have to be taken in order to regulate the creation of a budgetary fund and to provide for its functioning. However, attention should be paid to the risk of consolidating the hospital sector in terms of the European System of Accounts (ESA). My colleague Maggie De Block and I stand at the disposal of Parliament to provide the technical assistance it deems necessary. It is important that this legislative initiative be taken in accordance with social dialogue with all relevant actors. Nurses play a leading role in patient care – a role that needs to be recognized and respected. That, Mr. Chairman, is the opening statement I intend to deliver. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what Mr Clarinval said. This draft provides for additional funding for the healthcare sector, and this is welcome. Everyone knows the needs in this sector, where the staff is working day and night to care for sick people as well as possible. Of course, this isn't the end of the story. As I said, the legislative work has not happened. There must therefore be a law regulating that fund. As long as that has not happened, the funds cannot be used. In addition, it is the rule, even the obligation, to engage in social dialogue in these matters. I assume this will be launched as soon as possible. We also know that the profession of nurse is a bottleneck profession. Not enough nurses are being found nowadays, which means that the numerous vacancies are not filled. We are therefore facing a great challenge and we will not be able to solve it with a magic wand. It is now up to Parliament to provide the necessary guidelines for legislative work. As Mr Clarinval said, we are at Parliament's disposal to provide the necessary cooperation. So there's a lot of work on the shelf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u6	Before we proceed to explanations of vote, may I perhaps translate the government's message as follows. We have adopted an amendment. The amendment has been included in the tables, as you have seen. This has been done by Parliament's services and by the departments of the Budget Department, as it should be. You can find the amendment in the budget tables. To implement this amendment, legislative work is required. That brings me to a more difficult point. As a budgetary fund, the fund intervenes on the basic legislation of the budget funds dating back to 1991. It is therefore necessary to intervene in this legislation, and I note that the government is prepared to examine, together with the relevant committees, how this can be achieved as quickly and as optimally as possible. There is therefore a need for some legislative work and I note that the government is at the disposal of Parliament. It is for the relevant committees to organise their work in the coming week. On the other hand, both government members stress the need for social dialogue. There is the amount, but the way in which that amount should be spent must be the subject of social dialogue. These are the logical consequences of the adoption of the amendment last week. This can be made operational if the Chamber finally agrees to the draft law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u7	Mr President, you call for the relevant committees – Social Affairs, Health and Finance – to meet next week. I would like to hear confirmation from the chairmen of those committees or, if they are not present, from their group leaders. I hope that the commitment will be made here and now that these committees will meet next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u8	Mr President, I am a little surprised at the statements made by the new Budget Minister. I'm glad we changed our minds because, five days ago, the minister told us that it was impossible for these funds to go to the sector. Madam Minister, in September you issued a royal order allowing a transfer of funds to the medical home sector. Why is what was possible in September, when we were already in a period of provisional twelfths, no longer possible for this amendment of the PTB? I have the impression that we are trying to delay a decision that has been taken democratically by this Parliament!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u9	Mr Hedebouw, I suggest you take that back next week. Mr Laaouej simply asked whether the Chamber could agree that the relevant committees should meet next week to implement this amendment and bonne et due form. That's all that matters. I believe that the sector to which you claim to attach great importance is waiting for this signal. So let us as a Parliament, together with the government, seize the opportunity to implement this quickly. Not everyone has to ask for the floor, it is now just a matter of regulating the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u10	Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I obviously agree that the members of the Committee on Social Affairs will be able to meet next week. On this occasion, we will consider the feasibility of this amendment. We welcome that, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u11	Mr President, I support Mr Laaouej's request for a quick meeting. However, we in the committees must also have the intellectual honesty to respect different logics. The Budget Act of 22 May 2003, referred to by the new Minister for the Budget, also allows for other options, such as direct contributions to a fund, for example the Social Maribel Fund. There is immediate social dialogue. Madam Secretary of State for Social Affairs, you are well aware of this, because such royal decisions have already been taken in current cases. So we must not simply follow the logic of the government that there must be an amendment; we must also look at the other potential possibilities that the law allows in all simplicity. We must therefore discuss the various options openly next week. Mrs De Block, you are aware of these royal decisions concerning donations to the social-maribel funds. You're taking them in on-going cases, too. In this one, that would also be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u12	Mr Bertels, I am going to repeat what I said earlier, otherwise we are going to have a very technical debate. The technique chosen in the amendment is a budget fund. I'm just noticing that. I referred to the 1991 law. I didn't just do it on my own. I've been talking to the services about that. They say that if we want to change the 1991 law, that table should be added to the 1991 law. Budgetary funds, I know that from my past, are an exception to the normal budgetary technique. If we can agree today that the committees concerned can meet, I will consult with the committee chairmen after the sitting to set a date for next week, so that the best possible technical means can be found to translate the will of Parliament, which was shown last week in the vote on the amendment and which should appear in the final vote. You can count on that. I still have Mr. Piedboeuf on my list. I would like to congratulate him as new group leader. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u13	Mr President, thank you. As far as our group is concerned, there is a willingness to finalize this fund and make it operational. We therefore have no objection to my colleague Laaouej's proposal to convene the three committees next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u14	Mr President, I would like to make a statement of vote on the provisional appropriations. We will obviously vote on them. It is particularly important during this period to be responsible and to ensure the functioning of the State. However, I would like to go back to this White Blouse amendment because...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u15	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u16	Mr President, are we in the statements of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u17	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u18	Excuse me. I will therefore re-register for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u19	All right. Mrs Fonck, I will not deduct the time you have used now from your speaking time. Mr De Roover, Mr Pas, Mr Lachaert, Mr Vanbesien, Mr Laaouej, Mr Bertels, Mr Mertens, Mr Verherstraeten, Mr Fonck and Mr Dedecker ask for an explanation of vote. I would like to stress that speaking time is two minutes, and I have three minutes at the most. We are given the floor for an explanation of vote without reopening the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u20	Mr President, we are here together for the provisional twelfths. People with a bad character might think it's about the composition of the government, but it's about an emergency grip. After all, there is no budget for the vote here. Last week in the debates it was said that a government is needed to draw up a real budget. There has also been a call, especially to the N-VA and the PS, for this to be done. That is a justified appeal, but it is a call for a consistent government agreement and for us not to reduce the formation of a government to the addition of seats to 76 seats. It is clear that there is a gap in the vision of a good, consistent government between the north and the south of the country. The proposals to put the budget in order are also a bit different. Mr Loones said here with an open mind last week that we reformed and saved with the Michael administration, but that honesty commands that it should have been more. In this debate, that honesty would be a credit to all of us. If the remaining government had worked on the implementation of the 2018 Summer Agreement, with important budgetary implications, we could have approached the present draft differently. That has already been said here. However, what happened last week made the situation worse. We have voted in favour of an amendment which further undermines budgetary balances. For the record, we have no problem with parliamentary majorities. It is up to everyone to take responsibility for this. Parliament is autonomous and a majority is a majority. However, I would like to quote a colleague in last week's debate: 'The Walloon je-m' and errorism is completely incomprehensible and irresponsible'. We consider care to be important, hence the Flemish government agreement, for example, sets a maximum bill for the rest houses. However, we have reservations about the amendment that has been adopted, not because of its content, but because of the fact that an expenditure has been approved here, whereas no consideration has been given to its financing. Hence my appeal to this House: let us not approve expenditure which is not accompanied by an answer to the question of concrete financing. No theoretical proposals, but an agreement involving both expenditure and its financing, which did not succeed last week. If you don't know where to find the funding, stop using sinteringlaa politics. As the summer of 2018 agreements were not respected, we will vote against. At the same time, we explicitly call for responsibility. Expenditure must be financed, so make sure it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u21	Mr President, as I said here last week, our group will approve the provisional appropriations. I would like to repeat that it is not very heartfelt. The provisional appropriations are based on the 2018 budget, which was not approved by our group. However, we shall approve the provisional appropriations because our sense of responsibility is greater than our disgust with that budget. That attitude runs counter to that of the N-VA. The N-VA co-produced the 2018 budget, but refuses to approve the provisional appropriations on that basis. Whatever some may say, it is always the left and the green opposition parties that take responsibility. We will not be responsible for the shutdown in our country. In addition to all the changes and adjustments to the budget proposed by the government, this time there is also a modest modification by a parliamentary majority: an emergency fund of EUR 67 million for the care sector. I understand from what the ministers have said that the government is prepared to look together with Parliament at how best to use the funds. Respecting parliamentary adjustment to the budget seems obvious and a minimum, but hopefully it can also be the beginning of better cooperation between the government and Parliament. It is a call that we are addressing to the President of the Chamber. At the same time, it may also be a good opportunity for the new prime minister of the government in current affairs. Colleagues, if we can work together in this way in Parliament, we will always be able to count on our group. In fact, we look forward to it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week, Parliament reminded you that it was not on a day-to-day basis. Yes, the government takes refuge from week to week behind being on business so that it does not see and respond to social emergencies, because it does not have the means to do so, and to take refuge behind a large number of fireworks. We just saw him now. What Parliament votes, Parliament can vote to do something else. This is true in any area, especially in the budgetary field. It is possible to quickly find a legislative formula that will make it possible to find funding for nurses. But let's get back to the bottom of the case first. For months we have been drawing your attention to the suffering endured by hospital staff, caregivers and nurses in particular. We have been telling you for months that the two billion euros of cuts of the previous legislature have created an untenable tension for those people who, on a daily basis, care for the sick and suffering. You didn't want to hear it, Maggie De Block, just like you're not listening to me right now. I find this particularly irresponsible, when we are talking, Mrs De Block, about something that concerns you immediately. If we are here today, it is because the situation is the result of your policy. It is therefore up to the government to repair the damage that it itself has caused in our society, and in particular in the hospital sector. We have reached out to you, by way of an amendment, voted in this Parliament. It's up to you to find the funding. At the same time, I would also like to say to those who believe that everything is being resolved, and who organize demonstrations with nurses, that the problem is not yet resolved. People should not be given false hopes. Indeed, the fight must continue here in Parliament. That is why, Mr President, I understand that you are enforcing the agreement reached, and that you are bringing the committees together, so that we can find concrete ways to improve the status of those who are now dealing with the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provisional appropriations that are before us today are an extension of the last budget proposed by the Michael administration in the Chamber. That wasn't a good budget. We have always voted against this poor budget and, consequently, consistently against its extension. Last week, our good colleague, Wouter Vermeersch, explained in detail in plenary why the provisional appropriations before us actually deserve a vote against. Since last week, things have changed in this context. I am not talking about the fifteenth change of ministers in this government, which means that in the meantime a new Minister for the Budget has been appointed, but of course I am referring to the adoption of an amendment by the opposition. That amendment received our support, which was a surprise for many. However, anyone who analyses our voting behaviour over the years will see that we are always looking at the content and not at the author, as should be the case for democrats. We approved that amendment because we support the release of more resources and the display of greater respect for the care sector. I am not really surprised that the government is not even able to carry out itself what Parliament is imposing on it. The members of the government argue that the amendment requires a change of law. However, this government is an expert in experience at a rapid pace in the pursuit of important draft laws by Parliament. In any case, it is significant that this government is not even capable of doing so anymore. Parliament can, of course, remedy this, as it is up to us to take legislative initiatives. We are therefore cooperating constructively. Budgetary problems can always be solved, so panic-mongering, for example, about a shutdown, I leave it to others. To those who have caused billions of budget deficits for years and who are complaining today that this amendment will increase the deficit, I would like to say that they should have approved our amendments last week, all of them savings, including on Fedasil and the Royal House. Even if we are opposed to the provisional appropriations, there are two reasons why we will change our voting behaviour today. The main reason, as I said, is that we support more resources for the care sector. The second reason is general, especially that last week in the Chamber played parliamentary democracy for once. It is a good thing and a good precedent, which can be repeated, which plays not the participation but parliamentary democracy in this House. That is why our group will abstain from voting on the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u24	Mr President, I note that we are saying everything and its opposite about a government in day-to-day business. It is clear that we are very sensitive to the situation of nurses and the hospital sector. We also know that some of the difficulties in some parts of the country result from the extension of the duration of studies. In any case, nurses are suffering everywhere. This is also the case in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Indeed, despite the fact that Luxembourgers have more resources than we do, the Grand Duchy is in a shortage of nurses. We know there are things to do both in the medical world and in the nursing world. We support initiatives to improve things and the situation of workers, taking into account their suffering. But our government is in day-to-day business and we must act as good managers by not doing anything. Everyone's talking about spending cuts, but we're adding new ones. Perhaps one day we will have to find ourselves at the foot of the wall in view of our country's financial situation. All this only confirms that it is high time a government was formed. It is high time that those who have lessons to teach learn their own lessons and start working to form a government, have a real budget and policies that can be funded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I remain convinced that we should not have a majority or opposition in current cases. In current cases, we must also be cautious in the budgetary field. That is one of the reasons why we have agreed this legislature that legislative initiatives would be looked at by the Court of Auditors. However, things should not last too long, and they have been going on for far too long. Therefore, we should not be surprised that Parliament occasionally, under pressure from legitimate social desires, feels the need to ignore budgetary caution, in order to be able to answer certain questions. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must also realise that if we decide today to spend a euro, this also means that tomorrow we must find out how we are going to get that euro paid. Just now, a colleague said that we have to take responsibility. Our main responsibility is now to form a government that comes to this House with a full budget, with revenue and expenditure. It's about time. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to what happened last Thursday, I must say that I think that we should have talked about this in advance in current cases. In any event, our group is prepared to respond to the wishes expressed by a majority in this House next week. We will look at how that should be done, with a social maribel or with an organic law. That must be the subject of a discussion. However, we will also have to make choices because there are several needs in this sector that are not necessarily similar. I also invite you not only to talk about this. I do not expect us to have a federal government with an approved budget by 31 December. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid I won't. In any case, we will have to approve provisional twelfths. We should then talk about this in advance and see how the extra euro we spend should be paid. I will conclude, Mr President. The amount of 67 million will hopefully be as effective as possible. What is at least as important in the healthcare sector in the coming weeks is that social agreements can be concluded so that the leave systems of nursing can be regulated, that the timetables can be improved and that there can be talk about the second pillar, because these are also questions and concerns that live in the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u26	Mr Verherstraeten, speaking in advance... the same amendment was tabled in July in the Chamber. In July! Several groups say that they respect the people in the healthcare sector, that they listen to the people in the care and that they look at each amendment on the basis of its content. The same amendment was rejected in July. In July we said that if the people of the care sector are themselves asking for extra money, we would retable the amendment, not because of the Labour Party, but because the needs in the field are so great. I hear a lot of lip service to the healthcare sector here today. We have just held a demonstration, Mr Laaouej, because there is a need for demonstrations to put pressure on because they are needed. All those people on the ground say the same thing: the water is on their lips, they can't do it anymore. Madam Minister, you are talking about a bottleneck profession, but the people on the ground are asking for a better remuneration, not just EUR 1,725 net after four years of study for an early shift, a late shift, a night shift, for the vacation, for the fact that one cannot take two weeks apart. They are asking for serious remuneration, they are asking for improved working conditions and improved wage conditions. Improve wage conditions, ensure that there are more people at work in the healthcare sector, and the bottleneck profession will no longer be a bottleneck profession. That is a political responsibility of the government, not only today, but for a long time now, Madam Minister. I will conclude, Mr President. I've got to get something off my chest. Since last Thursday, the word'shame' is very common. Many believe that everything was better in advance so that Parliament did not have to come together this week. Mr Verherstraeten wrote in the press, and I quote: 'The government does not control Parliament'. That is not the intention, Mr Verherstraeten. It is not the intention of the government to control Parliament, but it is the intention of Parliament to control the government. That's the idea!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u27	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will ensure that the government does not get away with its transparent tactics. It is now agreed to the amount of EUR 67 million, but it will then try to bury everything in the relevant committees. By carrying out complex legislative work for weeks or even months, we are going to ensure that the EUR 67 million do not end up where it should. We will remain vigilant in those committees. However, we will also continue to organise events to ensure the effective implementation of the EUR 67 million emergency fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we did not have to be here today to talk about the provisional twelfths. In itself, this country has been without a full government for ten months. The elections took place on 26 May. Since then, a number of parties have been discussing a possible new government with a full budget. We're not there yet. The debate that has now taken place on the provisional twelfths was actually the same as that of July. The provisional twelfths are a purely technical measure to enable the government to operate, to collect the revenue and to be able to spend. It was my great frustration, and that of my group, last week, that this was done politically in this way. I understand the needs raised by a number of parties, but if we put the government in the situation that it will no longer be able to make certain expenses from this night, we are not acting responsibly as a Parliament. Indeed, Mr Mertens, I think it is positive that Parliament has more freedom today than in the ordinary constellation, with a government. I'm a parliamentary. I love Parliament and the work that a Member of Parliament can do there, but we must do it responsibly. If one tackles it like last week, without consultation, one risks getting into today's situation, and from tomorrow there may be a problem. Let us try to avoid that in the future. Having said that, the provisional twelfths are ahead of us today with the amendment adopted last week by various parties in the hemisphere: 67 million extra for care in the months of November and December. Who could be opposed to that? It's understandable in itself. There have been acute needs in the healthcare sector for a long time, especially due to a lack of staff. As the Minister said, nurse is a problem-solving profession. We don't think nurses are enough. It is not by providing 67 million now that the problem is resolved immediately. Even when you tabled the original amendment, you were well aware that this does not require 67 million, but 1 billion per year at cruising speed. That's a huge amount of money. I shall now turn to what Mr Verherstraeten has said. We must be careful that, when we spend extra money, we also compensate them in one way or another. Otherwise, everything that Parliament is spending today under the motto 'freedom, happiness' will return to our face tomorrow, because we will have to make savings in the face of others. That's not the point. In this respect, we must apply our democracy properly. There is a Parliament with full power. Mr Laaouej, I would like to make a commitment to work in the committees next week as quickly as possible on the situation in the healthcare sector. Let us invite the social partners and ask them why they have not managed to conclude collective agreements in the healthcare sector which can improve the status of the staff concerned. However, let us do our homework in a calm and good way. We also know that a budget in itself is not a draft law. That bill will no longer come from the government in current cases. It is up to us, to the 150 Members of Parliament, to take an effective initiative and to work towards a better situation in the healthcare sector within a proper framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you three messages. Firstly, the idea is, I understand, not widely shared, but additional money for more nurses is justified. The sp.a said that before the elections. We put that in the debate on the amendment in June 2019, and we say it after the elections. We are therefore consistent and, yes, we accepted the amendment. The nurse's cry is effectively deafening. There's too much work pressure. The quality of care is compromised. Even patient safety is compromised. So more money for the nurses is absolutely necessary. I am pleased that the government now recognizes that as well. Madam Minister, Minister, the additional money, for which we hope to approve the text today, can be spent quickly and well. That's what pistes are for. You refer to the social dialogue. There is consultation on, for example, the use of the Social Fund. The Minister knows that. We don't have to organize that anymore. Let us ensure that the money reaches the fund for the social maribel of the private sector as soon as possible. There is also the social maribel fund of the public sector. The social partners will then try to recruit nurses and provide the necessary training. The tools already exist. Let's use them. Mr President, it can happen quickly in the committees. I assume you have the commitment of the Chamber to do so quickly, without delay mechanisms. Secondly, I would also like to refresh the memory of some of my fellow Members who suddenly discovered the enormous budget deficit last week and are now calling for shame. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we have not created this enormous deficit; we are not the unsatisfied ones. [[Objections to different banks]] You should take a look at the numbers. The nominal budget deficit has never been as large as under this government. Who are the culprits? Those are the partners in the Swedish coalition, those who are still there and those who have run away. They're both equally guilty. The gap in the budget was struck by the Swedish coalition. You may dispute that, but you should take a look at the figures. It's even worse, colleagues. sp.a is the only party that has so far proposed not to enlarge the hole. You say that compensation for funding must be provided. You have decided, and do not want to correct, to a new stage in corporation tax for multinationals, 2 billion without funding, and we must not get there. I have heard here 'freedom, happiness', apparently it is about 'freedom, happiness' for the multinationals but not for the nurses. Mr Verherstraeten, you spoke of budgetary caution. We propose to restore the security tax, your trophy that was destroyed, as soon as possible. Madam Minister, the measures we have proposed for big pharmaceutical can be more effective than the measures for nurses. Mr President, sp.a is a responsible party. As with the previous three discs of provisional twelfths, we will ensure that the government can continue to function. We shall therefore also approve this fourth disc of provisional twelfths. We want a government that works. We want that for all departments, including health care, Madam Secretary. And we will take an initiative in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be responsible and, as a responsible party, we will vote on these provisional appropriations. It is very important to be able to assume the proper functioning of the State, all the more so in times of day-to-day business. Minister De Block, I am obviously going to speak here about health and last week's amendment. Day after day, month after month, year after year during this Parliament, I chased you because of the dark cuts you made in the health care sector. Should health care be refinanced? The answer is yes! Are white blouses under pressure at the hospital, at home or in a nursing home? The answer is still yes! Should the working conditions of nurses and caregivers also be improved? The answer is always yes! But we really want to do it. And that is why we abstained last week. The worst would be to play with the caregivers' feet. We don't want to pretend. Recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that last week's amendment raises many questions about credibility and seriousness. Madam Minister, at the same time as this amendment on the budget, you could have brought a correct legal basis and put it here to the vote. In addition, providing EUR 67 million in two months for an additional 20 000 nurses means that they would be paid at 50% of the current scale. The calculation is done quickly and it is obviously unacceptable. We don't want wind, but we want to be serious. We do not want provisional credit, we want structural financing. At the CDH, our demands for health are very clear. These are proposals that we will resubmit, since we have already clearly defended them. It's a refinancing of health care. It is the improvement of working conditions, the taking into account of the reality of the daily life of white coats, whether in or outside the hospital. It is also, given the current shortage and the fact that hospitals desperately seek to hire missing nurses, to put the plan of activities of nurses and caregivers back on the table. These three priorities are crucial to us. It is in this sense that we hope to be able to work in the House in the days and weeks to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what happened here last week is a victory for democracy. I always like it when Parliament shows its teeth. This government in empty business, this revolving door government from which almost everyone runs, was shirted by this. For once in history, we have also been able to see that the extreme right and the extreme left have voted the same. Colleagues, I think it is only a pyrrus victory because of the very high levels of hypocrisy. I'm declaring myself. Everyone, including the group leaders of the so-called majority parties, was complaining about the size of the budget gap. At present, this amounts to 11.8 billion, and if this continues, it amounts to 14 billion. Everyone had the mouths full of savings and that it could not go on like this, but for the politicians an amendment was adopted which would blow up the provisional budget. Well, I will vote against it later because the budget gap is too large. Indeed, as Mr Lachaert pointed out, there is now an increase of 67 million for two months, but on an annual basis it amounts to 400 million. Today you are talking about the healthcare sector, Mr Hedebouw, and in December you will be back here to talk about the lowest pensions. The gap in the budget is getting worse and we are burdening the young people in this country with the debts we are making today. Do you know what we should be voting on today? We should vote on a French mad Minister for the Budget, who has created that gap and who is now Prime Minister. She helped create that hole, and today she is allowed to become Prime Minister and lead this country. I find that a disgrace in itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u33	Anyone who has asked to speak in the context of explanations of vote has been given the floor. We have now reached the point where the Chamber has to give its opinion. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 83 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 116 Total As a result, the House passed the bill as amended. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (413/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (413/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u34	Mr President, I abstained because of a vote with Mr Franky Demon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-31-55-plenair-ip011x.u35	You abstained because of a vote. That's noted. Ladies and gentlemen, I will do all I can to ensure that the necessary signatures are placed under the draft so that it can be presented to the Head of State in good time. We have finished our work. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 7, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 November 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
