ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u1	Madam Secretary, four suspects are on trial in the Leuven Court for preparing terrorist attacks in our country. The three men and a woman, all Muslims, are considered active militants of terrorist organization IS. One of them worked as an interpreter at Lubbeek's asylum centre. He told his parents on the phone: "I want to cut off the hands of the Belgians with a knife and bury them alive in the desert, even the Belgians who have done nothing wrong." Furthermore, the man tried to buy weapons, he planned an attack with acid and recruited people for ISIS. At the asylum centre in Lubbeek, his illegal activities remained unnoticed all the time. Apparently, therefore, the screening of staff or volunteers for the asylum centres is somewhat flawed. Madam Secretary, who does the screening and how does it happen? Are there interim evaluations of staff and volunteers? Are the mayors and police forces of the municipalities in which the asylum centres are located involved in this? How do you explain that anyone who openly sympathizes with extremists can work unimpeded as an interpreter in an asylum centre? What measures have you taken to improve the screening of staff and volunteers in order to avoid such suicides in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u2	Mrs Pas, screening, detection and prosecution of radicalism or membership of terrorist organisations are not done by my services, but by the competent services, in particular the police, justice and state security. The fact that the person concerned had to face legal proceedings today is therefore a good thing. My services and in particular the DVZ are actively involved in the Radicalism Action Plan and the national task force set up for this purpose. In addition to the specific screening and follow-up, there are of course the necessary control mechanisms at Fedasil to detect and sanction inappropriate behaviour within the working context. As with any federal administration, new staff must provide an extract from the criminal record. Staff members are also continuously monitored by their managers, including through formal operational and evaluation interviews. Volunteers are also succeeded by the Centre Director and the staff of the Centre. There are several channels to report inappropriate behaviour of staff or volunteers in the center. Radicalism is receiving special attention within the reception network. There is a strong awareness among staff, so that they are more vigilant in early signs of radicalism. There is a specific procedure for reporting radicalisation. Fedasil also employs an expert on Radicalism, who provides continuous training to the entire care network. During this training the employees learn to recognize signs of radicalisation. The notification procedure developed for this purpose is also explained. Notifications of radicalisation from the reception network are handled by the expert, after which the DVZ further succeeds the person concerned and informs the security and intelligence services for further follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u3	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. If I interpret correctly, Fedasil's existing control mechanisms and notification procedures will satisfy you to report inappropriate behavior, as you put it. Apparently, this has not prevented highly radicalised people from acting as an interpreter in asylum centres. You say the screening itself is done by the police and the justice department. The Security of the State is also subject to Justice. I think that the control mechanism and the notification procedure at Fedasil are certainly necessary, but that is only the second stage. The most important phase, the first phase, is screening. That is why I will ask your colleagues responsible for the police forces and responsible for the Justice and Security of the State the necessary follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u4	Madam Secretary, we visited the centres in Steenokkerzeel. In the closed center 127bis there are brand new family units. I also made a video of it, of which you will find the link to the written presentation of my question. Personally, those units seemed very humane to me, there was a lot of space, with playground and that's more. They are therefore really suitable for the care of children. During the tour, however, we were told that the units were closed because there is a noise procedure, because the units are close to the airport. We stayed there for a while to assess that noise impact near the airport, but personally I did not think that was insurmountable. I lived next to a railroad myself and there was more noise. I therefore found it strange that that statement was made and that the units were not allowed to be used for a while, and still not, I think, for families with underage children because of the noise pollution. As a result, families end up in shelter today, which is much less comfortable, and that doesn't make anyone any better. What do you think about the fact that these units cannot now be used for the closed care of families with children for return purposes? We both have medical records. I never learned that the sound impact on a 16-year-old person would be different than on a 18-year-old person, so I don't understand the pronunciation in that sense either. Of course, long-term noise can have an impact in the long term, but certainly in the short term I do not understand that. Otherwise, for example, someone who often travels by plane would suffer from this too, and that is not the case with regard to noise in itself. In summary, left-naïve ideologically inspired procedures are now simply emptying the brand-new family units. Is that still the case? Can you tell us in which centres such out-of-court families with under-age children end up in today's situation? Do you consider the shelter there more or less humane and comfortable than in the brand new family units of center 127bis? During my work visit, perhaps it was a coincidence, but you can then give a ruling on that. Most of it was about single men. In exactly how many percent of cases is it about families with underage children?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u5	Mrs Van Camp, as you know, the suspension judgment of the Council of State of 4 April 2019 has indeed resulted in no family with child children being held in closed family homes since then. One of the arguments was indeed the noise nuisance to which the children would be exposed. To meet this, the Department of Foreign Affairs has therefore planned the necessary structural measures, such as better sound insulation and more insulating material. Pending the judgment on the ground, the capacity of the vacant housing units is now also being used by couples and families with children of majority age, because the judgment concerns only minor children. The completed families with underage children are still housed in the appropriate FIT homes. Just as in the housing units, the families are received in a humane manner and accompanied by return coaches. These places are reserved for families only. So there's no single guys in here. The same applies to housing units in the closed centres, in which no single men can be held either. I remain convinced that outlaws must leave the country. A stay in illegality is not a healthy situation for the family, let alone for the child. For families with underage children I am therefore committed to coaching and guidance with a view to voluntary return. If that does not work, only the last means of detention can be ordered until the return. These families also have the principle that applies to everyone else: voluntary if they can, forced if they have to, but in a humane way and I stand behind it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u6	Madam Secretary, you say that isolation is now being planned, but the verdict dates back a few months ago. We've been there recently. Why hasn't the isolation been installed yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u7	I have checked and I have been informed that the works have just been terminated. Those closed family homes are now inhabited again. That goes through the Buildings Regie, so you know it doesn't happen overnight. The proper procedures must be followed, and I am thinking of the necessary specifications to be drawn up. Those works have been completed. There is also the fact that it was not only the noise pollution inside, but also the noise pollution outside was contained in the judgment. We use the closed family homes now, but not yet for families with underage children.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u8	The extra insulation for sound has been installed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u10	When we were there, all those units were empty and there were no families with adult children. I hope this is the case now. I'll get the numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u11	They're closed units. When the old windows are removed to be able to place new ones, there must be no habitation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u12	At the time of our work visit, the units were completely in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u13	In the meantime, they're populated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u14	That's good to hear. I will continue to follow the figures. We agree that it is necessary to leave the country as soon as possible. Fedasil has clearly indicated that only 6% of those who come here are single women. We got those numbers through Fedasil's tweet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u15	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Kir's 55001045C and 55001047C have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Verherstraeten's 55001259C has also been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, an inquiry by the Israeli newspaper Haaretz, published on October 18, 2019, addresses the recent tightening of the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CGRA) with regard to asylum applications for persons who have left the Gaza Strip. You yourself announced this hardening in December 2018. Yet, on 28 August 2019, before the United Nations Security Council, Mr.Mladenov recalled how fragile the security situation in Gaza is and how precarious the humanitarian situation of the people remains, particularly with regard to access to health care. As a reminder, 80 per cent of the population in this territory is dependent on international food aid. Economically, the unemployment rate in 2018 was 53% and even 70% among young people. Minister, how many Palestinians in Gaza have received a negative response from CGRA since this change of attitude? Has the Office for Foreigners organized voluntary or forced returns to Gaza since then? If so, how many? Do you still consider the security and humanitarian situation there to be improving, as you said?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u17	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, in accordance with the reception model set up by Fedasil, individual reception is limited under conditions to certain categories of residents. Among these categories, nationals of a country with a high rate of recognition may, to the extent of the places available, access individual reception on the basis of two criteria: on the one hand, a recognition rate for the country of origin in question exceeding 80% and, on the other hand, a period of stay in collective reception of at least two months. The list of eligible countries is updated by Fedasil on the basis of data from the Office of the General Commissioner for Refugees and Stateless Persons. The latest adaptation was made on 19 August 2019, taking into account the more recent CGRA statistics. The only countries now selected are El Salvador, Eritrea, Libya and Syria. As a result, Palestinians are no longer included in the list, as their recognition rate is below 80 per cent. In order to ensure the safety of hunger strikers, the Belgian Red Cross has taken the following measures: the provision of collective premises, if necessary, medical surveillance, maintenance of contacts, regular exchanges and social monitoring. The mayor and Fedasil are informed of the situation at every moment. The Red Cross remains in its mandate of reception but under no circumstances intervenes in procedural matters. With regard to the situation in Palestine, the examination of applications for asylum was the responsibility of independent bodies. First, it is the CGRA; in the event of an appeal, the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers. I cannot therefore interfere with the assessment made by these bodies. CGRA believes that the situation in Gaza has changed since last year. Most Palestinian asylum-seekers had thus far received a decision to recognize refugee status, which was mainly due to the fact that return to Gaza was virtually impossible at that time. Since the middle of last year, the situation has fundamentally changed. On the basis of a very thorough study of the current situation, the CGRA has therefore reviewed its position on the assessment of the asylum files of Palestinian nationals. CGRA still believes that the situation remains problematic, but more of a nature such that it can be equated with collective persecution or that all persons from Gaza must be systematically granted protection status. Each application is evaluated taking into account the individual circumstances of each individual. This assessment of the situation has been confirmed by four recent decisions of the Foreign Litigation Council in the combined chambers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your concern for the independence of the bodies. I don't know who at CGRA is conducting these investigations. I do not know how these surveys are carried out; but apparently, these people do not often go to the field. Talk about improving the situation when we know that, more than last year, today the Gaza groundwater is 97 per cent polluted than in a month, 45 people were killed by Israeli strikes, 80 per cent of people live with global food aid... I don't know what the CGRA is using to talk about an improvement. You're talking about independence. But if I remember correctly, you yourself launched a deterrent campaign in Gaza a few months ago, referring to some sort of air call. I thank you for the answers, but I am missing the figures I asked you about the expulsions from Gaza. I will not fail to rest this question in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u19	I have the numbers here. I can give them to you. In the first six months of 2019, CGRA took a decision to refuse 271 Palestinian nationals. This year, no one was forced to return to Gaza. Twenty-two people returned voluntarily. In accordance with the rules in force for voluntary return, beneficiaries have received reintegration support and are monitored by Caritas' local partners. This shows that the return to Gaza is not impossible. Furthermore, we do not have data on the number of persons voluntarily responding to the order to leave the territory without State assistance. Finally, I would like to point out that the number of Palestinian asylum-seekers and asylum-seekers from the Gaza region has decreased sharply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u20	Minister, you're talking about 22 returns. This information surprises me somewhat. Indeed, how are the returns taking place while the region has been under blockade for 13 years? Via Egypt? Have any agreements been reached with Israel in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u21	I don't know the details, but I can find out about it. In the event of voluntary return, we always ask for the intervention of the International Organization for Migration (IOM), which is used to this type of procedure. When a problem arises, IOM does not fail to report it and to refuse its assistance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u22	Mr President, Minister, my initial question dates from a while ago. In the meantime, a lot has already been written and said about the dossier, but it is not bad to put a few things on the agenda here in committee. That is why I have kept the question and extended it with a number of supplementary questions. Those supplementary questions were not stopped before this committee meeting, I understand, but if you feel called to supplement, feel free to do so. The question is about the possible arrival of an asylum centre in Bilzen, more specifically in the municipality of Grote-Spouwen. The city council would have been informed of this on Thursday 24 October in the afternoon. On Monday 28 October the first consultation took place between Fedasil or the Red Cross and the city administration of Bilzen. Can you give a chronological overview of the search and the establishment of the property that is being discussed, namely the former residential care center De Ark van Noë in Grote-Spouwen? Can you indicate how and when you were informed of the availability of the property and who was contacted by your services for this purpose? Can you tell us when the city administration of Bilzen was informed informally or formally of the possible layout of the building and through whom the contacts went? Was there any mention of the building being visited, I take it, of any fire insecurity on the property? You will confirm in a moment whether a visit took place. I thought I heard from the local government that no fire safety certificate could be delivered at the time of the decision. Has the presence of asbestos been mentioned in the building? In my initial question was the question of whether restoration works are planned, which seems clear to me in the meantime. Who will bear these costs? Were alternative locations viewed or offered in Bilzen at the time of the search? If so, which ones were these? Why weren't those locations stopped? Can you tell me at this point when the asylum centre will open? It would be a temporary reception for asylum seekers. So, what term are we talking about? This has already been reported in the media, but I would have liked confirmation on this. The same applies to the number of asylum seekers who will find shelter here. What are the financial implications for the city of Bilzen, both in a positive and negative sense? How do you respond to the fact that the city government was apparently put on the verge of a fulfilled fact................................................................................................................................................................................................................... How do you consider that socially responsible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u23	Minister, the arson at the future asylum centre in Bilzen will deprive Fedasil of 140 beds in the short term. This scandalous event, which you have denounced – and I thank you for it – adds new difficulties to an already difficult situation. According to several press reports, there are 1,000 places to be created by the end of the year, failing which asylum seekers will be left on the street. Minister, can you assure us that no claimant will be forced to sleep on the street? Will you provide buffers to avoid problems? You mentioned the idea of contacting the Régie des Bâtiments and the Défense to remedy the shortage of places. What about it? In the press, private subcontracting was also mentioned. Which companies responded positively? What is the administrative control over the quality of these services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u24	Mrs Ponthier, a chronological overview has already been given, but I shall repeat it. The property was a former retirement home that was only abandoned in mid-September. Until then, it was completely fine for the fire department. It would be unthinkable to allow elderly people to stay in a rest home that is not fireproof. As far as your question on the attestation of asbestos is concerned, asbestos is released when pans are broken. At that time, there were no pans, which were released by the fire. There was indeed no mention of the presence of asbestos. The building was offered to Fedasil in September. In the middle of September, Fedasil and the Red Cross visited the vacant building. At the end of September, the Red Cross started negotiations with its owners. After the start of these negotiations, I was also informed that there was a possible slope for the reception centre in Bilzen. These negotiations were concluded at the end of October. We must then contact the Finance Inspectorate, as we have done. After that, a one-year contract was concluded with a three-month notice period, between the Red Cross and the owner. I therefore reported this to the mayor, Mr Sauwens, shortly after the afternoon on 24 October. He said he'd continue to inform the public. I also asked for a contact. It's been assigned. It was forwarded immediately. People made contact that day. On Monday 28 October the first consultation took place between the city administration of Bilzen and the Red Cross. At the time of the arson, on November 11th, a neighborhood meeting had already been announced. In consultation with the Red Cross and the municipal council, it was decided to continue the planned neighbourhood consultation on Thursday 21 November. The reception centre may accommodate 140 persons in accordance with the Agency's quality and safety standards. It's a temporary center. Of course, the arson caused a lot of damage. Work must indeed be carried out. This needs to be broken down and cleaned up in a special way. There are also fences in place. At present, it is not yet possible to estimate when the site would be operational again. A roof is not on it either from today to tomorrow, but that the center will open is a fact. All parties concerned agree on this. To ensure the safety of our reception centres, Fedasil is in contact with the local police of cities and municipalities that will receive new reception centres on their territory. It has also provided additional surveillance on these sites. There is also contact between the National Crisis Centre and the Agency for Support. In existing centres there is 24 hours and 7 days permanence and also increased vigilance. Mr Moutquin, the failure to open Bilzen's site has consequences for the number of places available in the reception network. However, no assignment of asylum seekers had yet been planned for this centre. We will have to overcome the temporary unavailability of the Bilzen reception centre by opening places in other sites. With my administration, I am making every effort to avoid leaving asylum seekers with their children in the cold. In recent months and weeks, intensive consultations with the Régie des Bâtiments and Defence have been conducted to examine how they could provide additional support. On November 14, the government also decided to call for an additional effort from all federal Public Services and to launch an emergency procurement to find private sector hosting opportunities. It is still too early to know how many places can be found in this way. In the meantime, we are also trying to draw the necessary lessons from what has happened there and certainly to avoid these problems in the future. In this way, we have improved coordination between the competent authorities in the asylum chain. Fedasil shall, as far as possible, conclude buffer agreements for new reception places opened. That means that if there is no need anymore for these places, Fedasil will not permanently close them, but can keep them behind the hand. These are the buffer places you were talking about that existed in 2014 and that we are going to re-establish in the centres. As you rightly pointed out, this is a good way to cope with the volatility inherent in the influx of asylum seekers in a more serene way. Mrs Ponthier, your question about the cost price should be put to the mayor. When I took part in the debate, I was told that 600 police hours had already been performed because of events, the unrest that has been there, the fire, the re-extinguishment, and so on. That cost is known. The rest you'll have to ask the mayor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u25	Madam Secretary, thank you for answering most of the questions. To the last question you did not answer, whether you consider it socially responsible to plant such a centre in a small village centre without any kind of consultation. I believe that the lessons you are talking about imply, among other things, that communication can do much better. An information meeting a month after the announcement to the public, via the media then, not via the municipal administration, seems to me to be very late. You have also announced in the media that communication can be improved. I am pleased that you acknowledge that communication has not gone well before and that you say that you will amend the communication plan. I have prepared a number of additional questions on this subject which I will put to you later. They are mainly about communication and cooperation with the population. As far as fire safety is concerned, I hear that the building was no longer fireproof at the time the contract was decided and that a B-test was delivered by the Bilzen fire department. You tell it differently from the local government. I don't know where that came from. I also hear from your reply that the Red Cross knew there was asbestos in the building. That this does not happen if nothing happens to the roof tiles, there is no need to do higher studies for that. Apart from the fact that there is little or no support for the consequences of the continuing mass migration and for the umpteenth asylum crisis, it seems to me particularly important to enter into consultation until further notice. Not after the facts, but before the decision is made. You also know that my political party has a very different view of asylum policy than the policy that is being pursued here in this country. We are in favour of dealing with the problem in our own region and of tightening up the current legislation. Unfortunately, however, we have not yet reached that stage. I am also counting on your sense of responsibility in the formation of a new government in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u26	Minister, we have just talked about responsibility. I think your answer has shown that your policy is more responsible than your predecessor's. Maintaining buffer places is really a good thing to avoid the difficulties we are in right now. For the rest of your answer, you say that it is too early to know the distribution between the different structures. I will soon ask you again, hoping that you have not planned to leave Europe, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u27	Mr President, Madam Minister, the issue of the speed of processing of cases is often raised as an essential element of a balanced and fair asylum policy, in particular in order to avoid, in the event of a very long procedure which can last several years, the second uprooting of applicants who have had ample time in the meantime to establish lasting ties in our country. Today, however, many applicants sometimes see a few years before their case is finally decided. During this time, as they are asked to do, they follow a path of integration, learn one of the national languages, train, sometimes obtain a work permit, seek and sometimes find a job. And finally, a decision is made. If it's positive, it's okay, but if it's negative, there's a problem. Minister, how are these ties and ties with Belgium taken into account in the processing of cases? How do these links weigh in the final decision on them? This brings me to my second question, which relates more specifically to Afghanistan. It is well known that the services processing asylum applications use the concept of a "safe country" allowing the introduction of accelerated procedures in the processing of cases. But there are countries, including Afghanistan, which are divided into districts or subregions, some of which are considered safe and others are considered unsafe. On this basis, the assessments are different. In doing so, the origin of the persons concerned will influence the decision to be taken. Minister, can you tell me what your assessment and your assessment of the situation in Afghanistan is? Which regions and areas are considered "safe" and "unsafe"? What is the situation in the capital, Kabul, which is known not to be safe from attacks? Attacks are also taking place on a regular basis. What is the security status of the Afghan capital? In concrete terms, what is the situation of Afghans in our country with regard to the processing of their request for protection?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u28	Mr President, Mr Delizée, let me first point out that, in accordance with the Aliens Act, the examination of asylum applications is the responsibility of independent bodies. First, it is the CGRA; in the event of an appeal, the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers. I cannot therefore interfere with the assessment made by these bodies. With regard to Afghanistan, the list of safe countries of origin was last updated in the royal decree of 15 February 2019, which will soon be renewed. Afghanistan is not included in the list that has been in force since 1 March 2019. This has never been the case. It was I who established the list of safe countries, and Afghanistan has never been there. There is therefore no question of accelerated treatment in this country. With regard to the individual examination of asylum applications of persons from Afghanistan, I would like to remind you that this examination is the responsibility of the CGRA and, in the event of an appeal, of the Foreign Litigation Council. As regards the assessment made by the CGRA, first, it is necessary to determine whether there are grounds for granting refugee status, taking into account the individual situation or profile of each person. Secondly, if it appears that there is no reason to recognize refugee status, consideration is given to granting subsidiary protection status. This status will, for example, be granted if there is a real risk to a civilian of being subjected to indiscriminate violence in the context of an armed conflict, taking into account the situation in the region of origin and the individual situation of the person concerned. Thus, no strict distinction is made between "safe areas" and "unsafe areas", as you say. The situation in Afghanistan is more complex than that, as is the assessment of the need for protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, for my first question, I did not ask you to intervene in any case. Rather, it was a question of knowing the general philosophy and, more specifically, whether a file took several years to complete. In other words, when someone follows the integration path properly, is this taken into account? I was therefore asking you about the approach underlying the decisions taken by the competent bodies. For me, your answer is not clear. As far as Afghanistan is concerned, you tell me that this country does not have a safe district or not. We are talking about subsidiary protection status. Like you, I recognize the complexity of the situation and the need to remain attentive to it. The geographical origin of an applicant is not a criterion for determining whether or not the status is granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u30	Mr Delizée, if my answer is not clear, I can add that, when considering an asylum application, the well-founded fear of persecution or a real risk of serious harm is assessed according to the situation prevailing in the country of origin. In principle, the length of stay and the level of integration are not relevant criteria in this respect, as they are not involved in the risk assessment for return to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u31	Madam Minister, I do not fully agree with what you are saying, but it is clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u32	Madam Secretary, Belgium is a popular destination for many Africans from Cameroon. This year alone, Belgium received 1.810 visa applications from Cameroon during the first eight months. As a result, the West African country accounts for about 20% of all student visa applications in our country. However, according to the Foreign Affairs Office (DVZ), fraud is a recurring pattern. According to the DVZ, attempts to combat fraud have little influence. The DVZ appoints the Council for Foreign Disputes (RvV) as responsible. However, the RVV claims that the DVZ does not sufficiently motivate rejections, for example by wrongly stating that the questionnaires would have been completed unclearly or incompletely. Madam Secretary, first of all, what will you do to detect fraud more efficiently? Secondly, do you think the Campus Belgique screening centre is working properly? Finally, how often does Cameroonis with a student visa in Belgium not return to their home country and disappear into illegality?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u33	Madam Secretary, this country is indeed a popular destination for many Cameroonians. This year alone, there are only 2,000 visa applications. This accounts for almost 17% of the total number of student visa applications, more than the applications from China and the US combined. In order to tackle fraud better, a screening centre has already been set up in Cameroon. Nevertheless, the DVZ indicates that it cannot get a grip on the problem. If he makes a negative assessment of an application, he often finds himself confronted with a favourable decision in appeal to the Council for Foreigner's Disputes. Madam Secretary, what measures are you planning to take to tackle the problem? Can you explain why Cameroonian students so often appeal negative decisions of the DVZ? Can you tell us how often they are effectively right from the RV? Perhaps you also have the figure of the total number of refusals of visa applications, so that we can get a better view of the proportion of students in Cameroon. In the Thomas More Hogeschool there are financial demands and there the registrations have got under control. In concrete terms, there should be financial resources available on a blocked account for maintenance during the stay. Are you in favour of that system? Do you want to roll it out with other educational institutions? Do you understand yourself that the RvV destroys decisions of the DVZ so often?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u34	Mr President, the problem is not new. When I was qualified, from 2011 to 2014, I also went on a trip to Cameroon. At that time we also had great chastity about the diplomas, which are for sale there for five dollars. When you leave the airport, they are all offered there. They were also offered to us. That was friendly, but not necessary. One of the measures taken in April 2018 was the establishment of the screening centre Campus Belgique in Cameroon, in order to strengthen the fight against fraud. The tasks of that centre shall include checking the authenticity of the documents submitted by the student and giving advice on the coherence of the study career. On the basis of that advice and the file completed by the student, which contains a completed questionnaire from the Foreign Affairs Office, the DVZ can then assess the risk of misuse of the procedure. It was found at several colleges that some Cameroonians and others did not have the level to go to college or university and did nothing there, unless there were hanging around and making sure they could stay. Both my administration and the Campus Belgique advocate a check on the authenticity of the documents prior to the delivery of the registration certificate. In practice, there are many differences between the different educational institutions as regards refusal to register. The fight against fraud should also be extended to the recognition of equivalence of diplomas. Such controls can only be implemented by the educational institutions themselves and they depend on the Communities. I think it would be helpful if they did. The Foreigner's Act determines which documents a foreigner must submit in our country to study. If those documents are submitted, the student must be granted a residence permit. At that time, DVZ still has little room for manoeuvre, as it is an automatic licence. To this end, the screening centre was also established, in order to be able to intervene at an earlier stage. In order to justify a refusal decision, the DVZ must demonstrate that the applicant has the intention to falsify the procedure, which is much more difficult. There is also regular contact between the administration and the parties concerned in order to find a solution for a more efficient fight against fraud. In current cases, the additional means of action are limited, but attention continues to be paid to the phenomenon. No figures are available for each ground for refusal or for the number of Cameroonians entering an illegal residence situation. In 2019 101 appeals were filed from July to mid-October with an urgent need. The Council for Foreign Affairs has suspended 25 refusal decisions. The DVZ then allowed 12 student visas. That gives you an idea of the situation. You ask me what I will do about this, but the RV, like all judicial authorities, is independent in its decisions. So we simply cannot do anything about it; we will have to act at an earlier stage. According to the Aliens Act, the student must also prove that he has sufficient means of subsistence to cover the costs of his stay, health, study and return. For this academic year, the required budget was set at 666 euros per month. That amount shall be fixed annually by royal decree. The student can prove that in several ways. One of the ways is to freeze the annual budget in a blocked account. Indeed, some educational institutions ask for that amount to be paid into a blocked account so that it can be used for registration and maintenance. That system is accepted by the DVZ as proof of sufficient means of subsistence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u35	Madam Minister, you have replied that this is not a new problem. However, as 20% of the student visa applications from Cameroonian students are still coming, it appears that the approach in recent years has not been adequate, otherwise we would not be facing the problem anymore. I therefore propose that all the bodies concerned be consulted in depth in order to look at the solutions which may be appropriate for the future, so that we do not have to ask the same question again in a number of months or years. Finally, I would like to question the added value of all Cameroonian students in our country. Perhaps we should think completely out of the box about the whole system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u36	I understand that your second question is on the same subject. Actually, she's about buying electric bikes?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u37	Mr President, the second question actually replaces the first. Something must have gone wrong with the services. Madam Secretary, in The Last News, I read in the regional edition of Hageland that 28 electric bicycles had been delivered to the asylum centre of Dormaal. In addition, we note that Fedasil has issued a quotation request for a lot of electric folding bikes, to be delivered to the Klein Kasteelje. Is this information correct? If so, how much did the electric bicycles cost for the centre at Dormaal? How many bicycles were purchased or will be purchased for the Klein Kastiltje? Were these electric bicycles purchased for asylum seekers or for workers? An important difference, I think. Have electric bicycles or scooters been purchased before for other asylum centres? Finally, Madam Minister, will you shortly be planning a personal consultation with the inhabitants of Saltleeuw and Dormaal, who rightly claim that they are not properly informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u38	Mr Van Langenhove, there is really little point in asking that question here. Is it true that electric bicycles have been purchased? If you first share this via your Twitter and Facebook account. Anyway, I'll answer you. I therefore hope that you will communicate that answer in the appropriate way. As far as those electric bicycles are concerned, in no shelter, not even in Saltleeuw, electric bicycles were purchased for asylum seekers, let alone in the Klein Kasteelje. Only for the staff there are three, over all the centres that are announced, for the staff, for example when the people of Fedasil or those of the DVZ drive from one center to another. If they have to move by car, they'll be on the road longer. On the basis of these facts, a story was made up, which is then shared through the social media, with the sole intention of portraying us as fools; as if we would buy electric bicycles directly for asylum seekers, and thus turn the population against each other. So it's an absolute lie. An absolute lie. I hope that you will also spread this answer and that you will realise how much damage you are doing with that lie in society, because not everyone can afford an electric bicycle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u39	By "you" you mean the Latest News, I hope?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u40	You know that this kind of behaviour can lead to unacceptable behaviour. Soon we will indeed open the center in Saltleeuw. Fedasil organised a neighbourhood meeting after its publication. In two moves, I've heard, because the number of attendees was too large to do it at once. Since then there has also been a contact, informal and personal, with the very immediate residents, who are with much less than those present there. There is also a structural informal consultation with the municipality and the residents through an already installed steering committee. As a responsible agency, Fedasil is best placed to engage in dialogue with local residents and then to deal with their concerns in concrete terms. This approach seems to me to be of the greatest benefit to the people. That always seems to me to be a better way than getting everybody on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u41	I've been to Saltleeuw and Dormal several times. Those people don't feel heard at all. They do not feel properly informed. The facts show that, too. If these people just don't hear anything for months and hear the only news through the mass media, then in the long run lies are also going around. Besides, those lies aren't made up by me. They were made up by Latest News, Mrs. De Block. Perhaps we can question the 400 million euros that the government grants annually to Het Laatste Nieuws, among others. My question was mainly how much the electric bicycles cost exactly, but you did not answer that question. I hope that I will be able to hear it in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u42	I assume that for three or four bicycles intended for the transport of staff, there should be no public tender over several centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u43	So the media reports about 28 bikes don't add up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u44	No, I didn't find out. Neither did the 300, and neither did the 400.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u45	So what you said in the Latest News is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u46	You know, I do have other things to do than check what's in the papers, let alone on your Facebook page. I'll tell you what we know. I'll give you that knowledge and you can do the rest yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u47	Madam Minister, if hundreds of people contact me about what they read in the newspapers, in particular that 28 electric bicycles were purchased for an asylum seekers' centre, can I ask you, as a Member of Parliament, a question about this? That's how our democracy works, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u48	You can ask a question about anything, and I can give you the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55001689 by Mrs Matz and Question No 5, by Mrs Maij-Weggen 5501739C by Mrs Daems have been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u50	On 6 November last, the Greek Minister for Migration was present in the European Parliament on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. There he made it clear that on the Greek islands there are 4,000 minors in circumstances that are unworthy of the European Union. He recently sent a letter to the EU-27 asking for voluntary help to share the burden. He only received a reply from one Member State. It shows that we still have many steps to take at European level to achieve a realistic distribution of refugees. On 6 November 2017, the European Parliament gave the mandate for institutional negotiations with European governments on the revision of Dublin rules. In the opinion of the European Parliament, there were a number of points that wanted to strengthen European solidarity, such as the proposal to spread people who have no real connection with a European country across the Member States. Did you also receive the letter from the Greek Minister of Migration? If so, can you summarize exactly what is in the letter? Is it true that you didn't answer and why? Where are the negotiations on reviewing the Dublin Regulation? Can you explain more about the position that Belgium is defending?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u51	Mr Colebunders, it is true that on 10 September, like colleagues from the other Member States, I received correspondence from the Greek Minister of Civil Protection with a general relocation request for 2,500 unaccompanied minors, for which he proposed a division between the Member States without explaining how that distribution would be calculated. Belgium is asked to include 150 minors. I did not go into that for the same reasons as the government did not go into the so-called Malta agreement. Belgium received 2,600 asylum applications in September and 2,900 in October. This is the case with the European leaders in terms of the number of asylum applications per capita. Belgium is already doing more than its fair share on reception, compared to other European Member States. Moreover, the current increased influx is not limited to the first countries, namely the countries at the external borders of the European Union. Central European countries, such as our country, are also victims of secondary migration. It is already quite an exercise to open additional shelters every month to properly channel the influx of asylum seekers. The running time of the network had also been very long in recent years: people are staying in asylum centres for up to 18 months before a decision is taken. That was six months ago, and that's where we have to go again. To this end, our administrations have already been strengthened twice, and that is finally starting to pay off with a higher number of decisions. Besides, our reception network is saturated. Once the threshold of 94 % of the available reception sites is exceeded, there is a saturated network. At present, it varies around 97 %. So it's not easy. As has been said, we want to avoid the need for asylum seekers and their families to sleep in the streets in winter. I cannot therefore make any commitments that I cannot guarantee to honour. We are also talking about unaccompanied minors, for whom we must appoint guardians. We must also have enough guardians at our disposal. Unaccompanied minors are not an easy group, and then there are another 1,500. European migration policy can do better. We really need structural solutions instead of ad hoc initiatives. I also advocated this at the European informal Council for Asylum and Migration. Next Monday, a new meeting will take place. There must be a balance between solidarity with the first-line countries and their responsibility. This can only be achieved with a structural solution and the new Commissioner, who will start on 1 December, must make this an absolute priority. In fact, there has not been much change in European asylum policy for years, despite the fact that there have been several crises. The same applies to the debate on the Dublin Regulation, which has been going on for five years. I've been away from the department for four years, but the discourse was the same at the time. Like I said, it's like I wasn't actually gone, but there was four years in between. The reform of the Dublin rules has been blocked for a long time. The new President of the European Commission wants to create a new asylum and migration pact with new forms of solidarity and guarantee that all Member States will bear part of the burden according to capacity and capacity. In the spring we will probably know how the Commission intends to proceed. The new Commissioner starts, somewhat late, on 1 December 2000 because the Commission was not put together in good time, and that has caused delays and has until spring to draw up a plan of action, which he will then submit to the Member States. Since the new Commissioner is a Greek, he knows the problem. He is aware that not only the countries at the external borders have to accept responsibility, but also that several other countries, including our country, are struggling with the flows of asylum seekers. I therefore hope that the new Commissioner will have the courage to put on the table an overall plan in which we can agree and where there is a different discourse than is the case today. Now it's too much for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u52	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I have just repeated twice that, however serious the problem is, it is about minors. Reports on the BBC showed the conditions under which these children live. I still wonder where they actually had the hardest life. It is indeed, as you have just said, about European directives. However, I am deeply disturbed by the policy of ostrich, not only in Belgium, but throughout Europe. We stick our heads in the sand and pretend those kids aren't here. The approach to migration is found in directives, but not in action. We are therefore looking forward to spring with you. We hope that not only directives, but, above all, clear laws will be introduced, so that migration is dealt with in a humane way, in which children are properly treated, contrary to what is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u53	Madam Minister, I asked a question about this at a previous meeting in October. In the meantime, however, the problem remained very topical. So I'd like to keep following this. You said at that time that the discussions on the ten-point plan with the United Kingdom were still ongoing. Since the problem remains so pressing, I would like to know how far you stand with it. What discussions have taken place in the meantime and with what agencies? What results have you been able to record? At the committee meeting in mid-October, you also said that you were planning an evaluation of the operation of the centres in the last month. How far along are you with that? What did you investigate? In what way did that happen? What were the results? What will you do about it? Finally, more than a month ago, you also said that you would instruct your colleague, De Crem, to draw up alternatives to the currently vacant transit centre 127bis. On behalf of our group, I myself suggested, for example, that we should work with provincial satellites. You yourself said that it was interesting to examine other options that even better respond to the exact geographical distribution of the problem. That was definitely a good idea. What has been investigated in this area? What came out of the bus? What are the pros and cons? When exactly can we expect results? You said, among other things, that you would come up with a joint opinion. Is that what we're worried about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u54	Mrs. Van Camp, there's been some evolution in the file. On 7 November there was a meeting with the British on cooperation in the fight against transmigration. The British delegation consisted largely of employees of the Home Office, the Border Force and the British Embassy. Belgium was represented by policy cells Home Affairs and Asylum and Migration, the federal police, the Foreign Affairs Office and the international cell of the FPS Home Affairs. Minister De Crem's policy cell is responsible for coordinating the file. Belgium is looking in particular at how the UK can contribute to better detection and how to communicate strategically with migrants about, for example, the asylum or Dublin procedure, living conditions in the UK, etc. The UK proposes to provide Belgium with financial and, if possible, material support, for example through the payment of detection equipment. The concrete Belgian needs were discussed the following day, during the joint visit to the port of Zeebrugge. Belgium and the UK want structural cooperation. After cooperation on infrastructure, the federal police stressed that cooperation on intelligence could also be better. As far as evaluation is concerned, this is currently being finalised. Your third question omtqrent alternatives relates to the police operation and organisation. I must ask you to address them to the Minister of the Interior until further notice, Minister De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u55	Thank you for the answers to the first and third questions. I understand that you are going to work together, but when will this become a reality in terms of practical solutions? If I understand correctly, the meeting on 7 November looked at what cooperation could be achieved and the exact needs and possibilities were identified during the work visit, namely structural in terms of intelligence and infrastructure. When can we expect concrete results on the ground? The third question will indeed, as you wish, be put to Minister De Crem. You have not yet answered the second question on the evaluation of the provisionally vacant centre for transit migrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u56	I said it's in the middle of something right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u57	When can we expect results?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u58	When people have done their jobs and come to a decision. The same applies to the measures: they are considered for each measure, including the appropriate implementation date. As soon as possible. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u59	We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u60	Madam Secretary, sound fragments show that your predecessor, Theo Francken, at a lecture in Beveren, said that he sent back illegal criminals in a creative way. He added: "I'm not gonna tell you how, because then I'm gonna get in trouble. One day I'll write a book about it, when the facts are out of date. Those are statements to fall back on. I think every democrat should be alarmed by such statements. It seems that Francken refers to possible illegal ways of getting a laissez pass from certain embassies to send back certain people. He seems to acknowledge that he has committed crimes, because he uses the word age. People don't just say that. Even for criminals, the return must be in accordance with international law, i.e. respect for the rights of the person concerned, in particular the right not to be exposed to inhumane treatment. What creative ways do you think Theo Francken is talking about? Do you know of any illegal ways to repatriate people? Did you find any traces of this when you took over the Secretary of State from Theo Francken again? In any case, will you investigate this further and instruct your administration to do so, together with the DVZ? What exactly happened? What's Theo Francken talking about? Will the DVZ provide elements that can support a possible investigation into the crimes recognised by Theo Francken himself? How does the issue of laissez-passer with reluctant countries usually work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u61	Madam Minister, in De Morgen of 25 November we were able to read a report of a lecture held in Beveren on Wednesday 20 November by former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken. The article contains, among other things, Mr Francken's next quote: "Yes, we were creative in returning illegal criminals. I'm not gonna tell you how, because then I'm gonna get in trouble, but someday I'm gonna write a book about it, when the facts are out of date. The fact that Mr Francken is talking about the limitation period of facts seems to suggest at least that this is about offences or crimes. That would therefore mean that he has violated criminal law in his capacity as Secretary of State. That is very serious and deserves to be clarified quickly. Has the prosecutor started an investigation after Mr Francken's statements? If so, will your administration fully cooperate in that investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u62	Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Kitir, the remarks made by my predecessor are of course, as always, to be borne by me. As far as I know, no investigation has yet been started at the courthouse, but if that is the case, my services will, of course, cooperate with them, as they did last time. The Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs has assured me that his administration does not use illegal practices in the removal of aliens. I myself have no knowledge of an instruction to break the law either. It certainly doesn't come from me. The coalition agreement focuses on a strict and fair asylum policy, with an efficient return policy as a final step. This also means a commitment to good relations with the representatives of the countries of destination, with a view to obtaining travel documents or laissez-passer. There are no standardized procedures. Old identity documents, fingerprints, interviews and other things can help. Good relations with the other countries are constantly being used, because mutual trust between countries and the migration services can also help us return. We are trying to make as many bilateral agreements as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u63	Madam Secretary, will you investigate further? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u64	I asked the Director-General of the Department of Foreign Affairs, because his department is also aware of the return. He says he doesn't know about that. That's all I can do, isn't it? If there's nothing to investigate, there's nothing to investigate. The moment a complaint was due to arrive at the courthouse, of course it will be a different investigation. We've been there. Last time, our services provided all the figures requested by the parquet. If I am told that no instructions have been given to break the law, then I will not say at such a time that something can be investigated. I need to know what needs to be investigated, don't I? If there is a complaint to the court, my services will, of course, cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u65	Does the issue of laissez-passer only take place through the administration or also through the cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u66	Usually through the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u67	Normal, yeah. I would ask you not to solve yet and to examine in greater depth what might have happened within your administration, within your services. Anyway, if necessary, we will take an initiative in Parliament. It happened that we asked Theo Francken to come to the committee at a hearing. If that is necessary, if there are no new elements and if this is not clear, we will do so again. He's really acting like a sun king, someone who thinks he can afford anything. These kind of statements are far from innocent. He just admits that he may have committed criminal offences. Apparently, all that passes. But not with us. I want to be very clear about this: not with us. Ministers are not above the law, especially when it comes to delicate matters like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u68	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Of course, you do not have to answer for your predecessor's statements. I am already pleased that you have taken the initiative within your services to make sure that something has actually happened that is punishable. I don't find such a pronunciation frivolous either. I don't think we should just get over it. I expect the public prosecutor to investigate this thoroughly. I am pleased to hear that if there is an investigation, you and your administration are prepared to give full support to see what is going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u69	Madam Minister, this brief question is in line with a previous debate in our committee today. It is well known that you are diligently looking for new shelters, after your predecessor reduced the number of shelters far too abruptly. How many places are you looking for at the moment? What progress have you made recently? Everyone is convinced of the need to create a basis for support in a municipality or neighbourhood where a new asylum centre will be set up, especially in the light of events in Bilzen. What measures do you take to ensure communication to remove anxiety among local residents? You announced in the press that you would take action against fake news about asylum centres. We have just seen some fake news in Mr Van Langenhove's question about electric bicycles that would be delivered in favour of asylum seekers. It doesn't seem to be a problem at all, but that's how people are worried, lied to and deceived. That action against fake news is definitely justified. I'd like to get some more explanation on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u70	Mr President, I have been briefly mentioned, so I would like to respond very briefly. I just wanted to get fake news out of the world. I asked the Minister what was going on and whether 28 bicycles had actually been delivered. If the Minister answers me that she can't find out, then I can't help it. I asked the question, that is my job as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u71	Mr Van Langenhove, you just mentioned an even higher number of bicycles, but so it is. I don't remember all that fake news. Mr De Vriendt, we create 500 to 700 places every month. Fedasil makes every effort to meet the additional need. I think I've had to open 6,000 places in a year. Our reception capacity has already increased by 5,000 places since the beginning of 2019. Fedasil is constantly investigating whether certain sites can be suitable for a reception centre and whether an agreement with the owner can be found. Before that, I briefed the mayor as soon as the lease of the new asylum centre was signed. That happened the day itself, not before. Due to the high need for shelters, we are faced today with a much shorter period of time between the signing of the contract and the opening of an asylum centre. That's why I'll call the mayor from now on, as soon as Fedasil's first visit finds a suitable center. Then, of course, the price has to be negotiated and the fire certificates have to be put in order and so on. I'll contact you sooner, because I find that the mayors want to know sooner. Once the decision has been made, a contact person will also be appointed and a central telephone number will be provided to which residents can call with questions, concerns or complaints. In addition, my services will proactively combat disinformation on social media. Over the past few days, they have put a tooth in that area, literally and figuratively. Fedasil was already working on that, but I've asked to be even more active and counter wrong information and fake news. For example, last Monday Fedasil skilfully countered information about the share of single men. The Red Cross says that it has not actually done so yet and that it is not up to the institution to do so, even though it recognises that such information cannot be disseminated. Today the electric bikes have already passed and soon there will also be a question about chocolate sintering class. A working group will also be set up, including representatives of my cabinet and Fedasil, to further develop this proactive approach. I have also asked to report threats and hatred against people who work with us or against centers. People didn't do that before, but I think they should, for security reasons, the police and the public should know that. Our services are in a heightened state of alertness, whereas one should actually simply do one's job. It might be interesting to say why so many places had to be opened. We calculated that, if the DVZ and the Commissioner-General could have continued to work on their strength, as it should have done in view of the influx that was already coming, and the backlog that was still there from 2015, no 6,000 places should have been opened. You will see the implications for the reception network if we do not ensure that the procedures are kept short and that they are not dragged on for six months, but for one year, fifteen months, eighteen months. I have already recruited twice, but for the Commissioner-General the training lasts six months and when it comes to countries like Afghanistan it is even longer. While the protection officers train people, the number of files they can handle goes down. We'll catch up even more. That's what we're through now. In the last two months more files have been dealt with, both at the Commissioner-General and at the DVD. There is now hope, with the new people present, that the delay of the late summer and autumn can be eliminated. We have to get through this without leaving the people on the street. That is what our plan of action is aimed at: not only opening up more places but also strengthening our administrations. Now we see the first fruits of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u72	Madam Secretary, thank you for your interesting answer. It is clear that your predecessor, who has decided to reduce staff, administration and reception facilities very abruptly, has a very great responsibility in the reception crisis. I hope that history does not repeat itself and that we learn from it, including in terms of maintaining a significant number of buffer sites, because there are always peaks and falls in the influx of asylum seekers. It's often hard to explain why. So a buffer capacity is actually very logical. Too euphoric and too quickly dismantling shelters only lead to misery. That's what we're seeing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u73	Debates of the European Parliament 50501770C by Mr Van Langenhove on Santa Claus chocolate has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u74	Mr President, yesterday the question was withdrawn because Fedasil has already answered it online. I have already communicated Fedasil's answer in my social media.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u75	I was wondering how many chocolate men one can buy for 30,000 euros. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic060x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir's question has been converted into a written question. Thank you for being here, Madam Secretary.
