ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34920	Here's just for the record. So, I think that the Rules of Procedure of Article 187 has been injured, which speaks about the time when we need to get an answer to the parliamentary question put in writing. On February 17, 2005, I referred the question to Mr. Bozidar Kalmeti, the answer so far has not been, so I would like to make a record of it and that you take further steps to resolve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34921	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Your Honor, it is no violation of the Rules of Procedure, if the government has not answered the parliamentary question, there is a special procedure for this. But it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure by you, nor by the intercessors, nor by me, nor by the Parliament. We are going to - Final draft law confirming the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border transport and cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 271 The legislator is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, which have been carried out by committees on legislation and foreign policy. You received the reports at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Gordan Bakotu to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34922	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We are facing a ratification of an agreement that is extremely important for relations between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We would like to encourage our ratification that this agreement is also ratified in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in some ways I would like to stress that its ratification will have an important and important impact on the initiation of signing and some other agreements very important for relations between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Such as the Borders Agreement, the Citizenship Agreement, the Property and Legal Agreement. We believe that it is extremely important that this agreement regulates and addresses the issue of border cooperation and the lives of people on both sides of the border with particular emphasis on farmers on both sides. This agreement will make life easier for many people living along the border, and should not in particular stress that it is the longest border Croatia has with its neighbours, and that this agreement will also have extremely important implications for our position in the European Union as regards lobbying that we have managed to reach an agreement on such an important issue regulated by border areas, border crossing points for border traffic, a specific regime for crossing the border with the border population and general procedure and control of border crossing on both sides and Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this connection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia propose ratification of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34923	Thank you very much. Legislative committees, foreign policy. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Next item... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's your colleague, Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. It is a law, i.e. an agreement that is probably the most important of all the agreements we have signed and that we will sign on border traffic and cooperation. And for a number of reasons. One of the reasons is that this is a country with, the neighbouring country with which we have the longest limit, therefore this agreement will be of particular importance, because, in particular, in the conditions when we are approaching the European Union, they will need to be monitored, of course, today, but they will need to be closely monitored within our membership in the European Union. Another reason is that it is a country that still has many internal issues open, and in this sense it can be expected to have a stable instability and difficulty in implementing this agreement. And the third reason, equally important from the point of view of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in a country where, especially in these border areas, a large number of Croats live on which the Republic of Croatia and because of its national interests, and because of what is written in our Constitution, should be particularly concerned. Therefore, this agreement is more important and more important than the agreement we have signed with the Republic of Slovenia and ratified. And probably more important than the agreement of the same or similar type with other countries, with Serbia, that is, Serbia-Montenegro and other neighbouring countries. So I'm a little surprised that there's actually no particular interest in this agreement. And the Committee on Foreign Policy has just finished discussing this agreement. We of course got reports on the benches. It is an agreement that can have very, very important long-term consequences in view of our country's security reasons but also in view of the positive aspects that this agreement can bear in relations with the neighbouring country, as well as the affirmation of the Republic of Croatia as future members of the European Union. This agreement concerns 16 cities and 58 municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It thus covers about 5km of space on one side of the border and on the other side of the border. And we know that Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina are largely populated along the border in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the southern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, there are also very important implications for the relations between the two countries, and also given the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's a very important question. How this agreement will reflect if tomorrow and tomorrow comes to the establishment of the Schengen border regime between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's probably gonna happen. As long as the Republic of Croatia is likely to have a delayed acceptance of the Schengen regime, so will Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, a period between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina can be expected to be a Schengen border regime that can have very serious implications for the situation of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, the implementation of this agreement which becomes a legal gain and is then transferred to Europe, the legal property of the Republic of Croatia, which it will bring into the European Union, of course and the legal property of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is very important because the implementation of this Agreement can make it difficult for the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to implement as countries that are able to implement the regulations of the European Union and of this segment, but the same bad implementation of this Agreement may make it difficult or more difficult to implement a regime that will require the Schengen type of agreements from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why this agreement is very important. So it allows for positive treatment on one hand and positive consequences if it is properly implemented, but if it is not then it can actually be very unfavourable for what one and the other countries are declaring, which is the membership of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina in the European Union. And that's why it's a little strange that this agreement has experienced so little interest here in the Croatian Parliament. Monitoring this agreement is one of the very important jobs not only of the foreign ministry but of the overall policy of the Republic of Croatia. This Agreement has very serious implications for other segments and not only in terms of border issues, for example in Article 10 of the Interreporting Agreement in procedures in space, investment, then use of water, postage and telecommunications services, etc. So all this is very important in view of the communication that will appear between the two countries especially between the population, the border population between one country and the other. So this is a very, very important agreement, I repeat. I don't think, under this agreement, this relationship between the Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Policy is the right way to deal with it. This agreement should be closely monitored, its implementation, because I say its implications for the Republic of Croatia and for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina can also be positive and negative depending on how the agreement will be implemented and therefore the Croatian Parliament, and especially the Executive Authority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should be closely monitored by the implementation of this Agreement. The HNS and PGS representatives' club will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34925	Thank you. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34926	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In the past few years, the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have significantly improved their relations so that we can evaluate them as friendly, partner and good neighbouring countries today. With its work, the Republic of Croatia advocates strengthening stability and self-sustainability in Bosnia and Herzegovina, supporting the implementation of reforms and meeting the conditions for approaching Euro-Atlantic integration, which is a multi-annual intensive communication at expert level. The Republic of Croatia stands for creating conditions throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina for the equal position of all three constituent nations as well as for the sustainable return of refugees. Croatia's constructive stance towards the neighbouring country has also led to the development of bilateral relations in which the emphasis is no longer on political but on professional and economic issues. One of the important incentives in the development of bilateral relations is the Interstate Cooperation Council, which is a positive example of joint cooperation in addressing all issues of common interest. The Council's action has also accelerated the development of contractual relations between the two countries so that today Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have more than 10 signed interstate agreements and acts. In 2004 alone, seven contracts were signed and started to apply. The State Border Treaty following the four-year work of the Commission identifying a thousand kilometres of the common border is being prepared for the ratification process in parliaments. The regulated issue of border control and the effective implementation of the readmission contract have enabled the visa regime to be abolished and the possibility of crossing the border with the identity card. When it comes to the border regime, Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina have concluded six different contracts related to border crossings governing traffic issues across the border. Treaty on the establishment of border crossings and its annex, Protocol on the categorisation of border crossings, Treaty on common locations at border crossing points, Agreement on the arrangement of border rail transport and Treaty on cooperation and mutual assistance in customs matters. Unfortunately, there is one opposite example, it is a suspension of the free trade agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina whose parts of the Bosnian Herzegovina side have been unilaterally frozen, thus in some way disrupting the continued positive progress in the development of bilateral relations. But we are convinced that this issue will soon be resolved in the interest of both countries, especially because of the very sensitive position of Croatian exporters of agricultural products. The border transport agreement and cooperation whose proposal for a law on confirmation today is before us surrounding the issue of border crossings between the two countries. With the conclusion of this agreement, the procedure started in December 2002 and signed in March 2003, the two countries fully regulated the border regime in the border. The agreement opened 23 permanent border crossings and two seasonal border crossings in small-border transport, which together with international border and interstate crossings is 60th. The figure testifies to the desire to define an open and friendly border between the two countries, both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the mutual interest. The agreement also defines specific border crossing arrangements for the border population. It also determines the methods and procedures of border control for border crossing persons who in the border area in the neighbouring country have land in which they carry out agricultural activity, which enable them to obtain a agricultural cartridge, thus achieving benefits in the transfer of their own products, livestock, material assets and machinery from one border area to another. So the aim of this agreement is to improve cooperation and create better conditions for the smooth traffic of passengers and goods at border crossings that will significantly facilitate life for about half a million citizens on both sides of the border and thus contribute to solving their daily life problems. This agreement will certainly contribute to the further overall improvement of bilateral co-operation and good neighbourly relations between our two countries. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Border Transport and Cooperation, with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34927	Thank you. The HSS Club, a respected representative of Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34928	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Peasant Party club certainly supports the proposal for this agreement between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic and co-operation. Let me perhaps just put a few emphasiss on this agreement, especially for which we are interested, and it is certainly about the part that regulates relations between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina with regard to agriculture, forest activities in the border area. As many people know, we had a lot of problems in relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia especially in that border area because of unregulated relations sometimes I would say and because of the situations that have been happening to us, we can freely call them because of so-called. soft limits. But for these reasons there was a big problem that appeared to us over a number of years, and this is the relationship of this border population where unfortunately we did not fully regulate these relations so that many times the people who were here had certain fields or economic facilities, unfortunately that their economic activity in agriculture couldn't carry out. With this agreement, we address these problems, and I believe that we will enable especially the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina who are in the area near Neretva, who have had countless times the big problems in that section to enable them to carry out their economic activity. I think this agreement is an improvement in the relationship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia and, of course, that we in this Parliament should support and ratify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34929	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34930	Thank you, Mr. President. I also actually need to make a contribution to this debate and support this proposal. Gentlemen, the legal nature of the procedures for confirming or ratifying international contracts is essentially that the state and formally expresses its willingness to assume international rights and obligations stemming from already signed international contracts. The specific situation is the agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on border transport and cooperation... March 25th, 2003 in Sarajevo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This should also be accompanied by the fact that, as a general rule, things cannot be amended and complemented by the specific text of the Agreement, which, in a formal sense, justifies the urgency of the procedure of the proposed law in question. However, I stress one thing, I have noticed one mistake in the agreement of a purely nomotechnical nature, or as the lawyers say, where the place of Duvno is listed, that error has come from the Bosnian Herzegovina side, and in fact this place no longer formally exists. It's Tomislavgrad since 90, so it's a place. Therefore, it is necessary to amend and amend it and correct it. Furthermore, an act that improves bilateral co-operation, aimed at deepening good neighbourly relations, all in order to create conditions for uninterrupted traffic of passengers and goods, at border crossings should in any case be unreservedly supported. Where it is added to this that the Agreement in question is concluded in order to determine border areas and border crossings for border traffic, the specificity of the regime for crossing the border of the border of the border population, and in particular to determine how the border crossing procedures and controls for border crossing persons in the border area of the neighbouring country have land in which they carry out agricultural activity. In order to achieve the benefits of the transport of their own products, livestock, material assets and machinery from one border area to another, persons shall be allowed to receive a agricultural cartridge with regard to the achievement of the benefits of the transport of their own products, livestock, material assets and machinery. It should be pointed out that the Agreement in question also defines the very important concepts of normal co-existence and life along the border. I find it very important to define the border area, the border crossing for border traffic, the border passes of the agricultural cartridge, but also the person of the two-owner. Therefore, the person of the citizen, the contractual parties resident in the border area who are the owners of the property shared by the border line or are wholly the owners of the property in the adjacent part of the border area of the other Contracting Party. Of course, the Agreement itself and its validation should be seen as part of the total bilateral relations between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in this respect, it is necessary to highlight international contracts already signed between the two international legal entities of which I point out the following. The agreement on mutual assistance in customs matters of July 2000, the International Railway Transport Arrangement Agreement of March 2000, the Protocol on the categorisation of the December 2001 border crossings, and the Treaty on the establishment of the April 2001 border crossings. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And it has been applied temporarily since the signing date, the proposed law in question should be absolutely supported with the final note that it really represents progress in bilateral relations between the two neighbouring, friendly countries. But it is also an international legal framework for the level and quality of relations to be at as high quality level as possible with the application of international legal standards. So, my support with a request for this correction and continued monitoring of the Agreement, in the sense of which my colleague, Jozo Radoš, spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34931	Thank you very much for the five-minute debate. HNS-PGS representative club, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34932	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We will support this Agreement especially because we have a lot of solid experience already with neighbouring Slovenia where this or such agreement has been applied for several years. And that's exactly why I want to if I can somehow get an answer to the next question. Namely, the same interests, the same reasons and the same problems that could be solved with such an agreement with neighbouring Hungary are present along Croatia's border, especially with us in Međimurje. Since there are two-owners of agricultural land on the one hand and on the other, especially as a large number of Croatian-origin citizens live in the border area, and we have been trying for the last 10 years to achieve all possible contacts and connections and enable as much migration as possible of investment, transport and co-operation as possible. As early as 4 years ago, we initiated the idea for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to try to launch negotiations with neighbouring Hungary to conclude the same or similar agreement, particularly the important fact that Croatia's entry into the European Union and this agreement that we are today confirming with Bosnia and Herzegovina as a acquired state, therefore, in the event and at the time of Croatia's entry into the European Union, this regime that we are establishing is not changing. So my particular question is, does it exist or does it run negotiations with neighbouring Hungary? Is there an opportunity to get an exact answer, does the neighbouring Republic of Hungary also want to have with us such or similar agreement that would regulate the cooperation of the border population on the one hand and on the other? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34933	Thank you. Final review if he wants a secretary of state? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. We're going to vote on the part of the debated and crossed agendas. Please first determine the quorum by including the key. Please quorum. 84 MPs and MPs have registered, so we have a valid quorum to make decisions. We're going to the vote. First of all, I'd like your colleagues and your colleagues' attention. Final proposal of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on Border Transport and Cooperation, P.Z. No. 271. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage and please vote. I'm asking for a result. I note that, with 108 votes for and 1 abstention, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in border transport and cooperation in the text proposed by the Proposer has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34936	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Court Register Act entered into force on 1 January 95, at the same time as the Company Act. From entry into force until 99, the Court Register Act has been amended and amended four times. There are several reasons why amendments and additions to this Law have now been made. The main reason is to enable and create assumptions as quickly as possible for the start of business of economic operators. The proposed amendments and additions will also allow a faster procedure for the registration of a company in the court register and a faster entry of data changes in already established and registered companies. In other words, the registration of society in the court register has lasted so far, plus, minus, infinitely. And for a year, there was a record or a change of data about already established or registered societies. A clear deadline of up to 15 days must now be made for enrolment or change. We think that these changes will make it possible to achieve even better and more efficient business and market freedom as the basis of the economic structure of the Republic of Croatia, which is also one of the fundamental economic rights provided for by our Constitution. Furthermore, the proposed amendments and additions to this Court Register Act will also contribute to the implementation of the project "one stop shop" adopted by the Government in December 2004 and, therefore, aim to enable entities to start economic and entrepreneurial activities as quickly and as easily as possible, which, of course, includes reducing the number of necessary approvals and collecting them in a small number of places. For these very reasons, we have proposed the abolition of Article 41a of the current Law on the Court Register, which is now subject to registration in the court register of the obligation to apply the declaration and the documents which constitute a limiting factor which significantly slows the registration procedure in the court register of new societies or change in already existing companies. Furthermore, during the application of the current law, it was found not to be in line with the latest amendments to the Law on Commercial Companies, which is a fundamental law governing the questions of companies and their obligation to register, and that it is not in conformity with the Law on Cooperatives, the Law on Origin Number, the Law on Banks, and the Banking Act, and, of course, this will now be brought into line with these amendments and additions. In addition, the winding-up procedure was not fully regulated and the proposed amendments and additions provided for provisions to speed up the completion of the winding-up procedure initiated under the official duty. And a sanction has also been prescribed for registration applicants who have not paid the costs of the court fee and who have taken up the costs of publishing the enrolment in the National Journal. These amendments and additions are regulated and note the dispute as an important element which contributes to the implementation of the principle of public and public trust in the public book, and as the applicable law itself contains provisions that slow down the registration of the court register, which are precisely proposed by these amendments, regulated and shortening deadlines for the establishment of a solution for the entry of companies and other entities. And here I am at the end, in turn, we believe that these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register will be obtained by a modern and efficient law in spirit and tradition with European laws that regulate this matter and will significantly improve economic flows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34937	Thank you. The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ representatives, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34938	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If we remember the situation as it was in the registers of commercial courts in the Republic of Croatia, we can remember that this was a very difficult situation, and that came from that company law when there was a huge emergence of the establishment of a number of companies where people founded companies and even the largest number of cases and without real intention to work with these companies. In this way we got in court registers one overcrowded case, one number of cases that objectively these registries couldn't solve. Afterwards, the Law on Commercial Society was passed and there was the harmonisation of all these companies with the company law, and let's remember there in 93rd, we watched these items in the mail in huge bags, and the courts were once again being overworked with such items, and it just didn't arrive to solve these new items, those serious items where people were opening up companies with which they were seriously intending to work. However, today the situation is something different because part of the time part of these companies or companies has been deleted from the register and it is under the provisions of the law because the company has not done anything for years, no traffic over these accounts has happened and the court has slowly deleted it according to official duty. This is why today, regardless of all the objections we have, today it is possible to register a company in the Republic of Croatia within 15, 20 days in the most appropriate court procedure. This law that is before us today, the Law on the Court Register, its amendments and additions in any case will continue to work on improving and actually brings significant improvements to the situation that has been so far. What if we could evaluate in a few words, what he's carrying, he's clearer in some provisions, more precise, nomotechnically correct, is in line with the Cooperatives Act, he's in line with the bankruptcy law in certain segments, and what's most important to our citizens he's actually bringing the cheaping process. Already, the minister herself said that a number of certificates, a number of applications in the procedure itself, would no longer have to be applied as one of the important statements in Article 41a, where the founder of the company had to make a statement to the public notary that there were no outstanding claims, that there were no companies in which there were also certain outstanding claims and, at the same time, with such a statement, he had to submit a confirmation of the tax administration that there were also no tax debts. So this law deletes that duplication and that's good anyway. In addition, we have had the situation so far that these entry solutions have been published in the National Journal but also in some daily newspapers which have significantly increased costs, today these amendments to the Law by the founder of a company or whoever seeks a certain status change in this, he will not have to pay the cost of publishing such an ad in the daily newspaper will only be published in the National Journal, which is certainly good. In addition, as the third element that will actually lead to the cost of the procedure is that certain status changes that will take place, it will be unnecessary for the application to register such changes to be publicly certified, will actually be sufficient to sign the authorised person and such a application will enter the procedure and will thus be cheapened. In any case, we see that a harmonised law and with the Law on these data so that more of that famous home number that had to be written on the applications and very often these applications were returned he was long so now that you have entered inside the home number of members of the supervisory board of their deputies, if there has been a mistake somewhere, then the whole process goes back. A number of institutes have improved, we also have a note of the dispute to make the trade register even more transparent, even more transparent, and it is certainly contributing to a greater security in legal traffic. It is also very important that this provision that the solution must be made within 15 days, and if there is a complaint, the appeal must be resolved within 30 days. This makes it very clear, therefore, that one who wishes to establish a company when submitting an orderly application with his documentation, the competent commercial court must make a decision on the entry within 15 days. This means we won't have any more of those big rushes, those big orders in the commercial courts where we had to ask for it, we have an urgent interest and such things, but simply by the basis of the legal provision when the application was received within 15 days a solution must be made. So, I'm going back if this law is still compatible with the amendments to the Financial Agency Act which also goes to certain improvements, where people are actually simplifying some of the procedures for the extraction of certain documents and confirmations I think these two laws in the package provide one decent and one good legal framework to make the situation significantly better in this segment and in fact become more transparent and simpler, and I repeat what is more important for our citizens and cheaper, yet we are reducing the number of these certificates that are needed, yet we are reducing the number of these certificates and I think that there are actually some improvements still room for some things, but that's the thing maybe for some future changes. And precisely for these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law, because I think it is indisputable that it brings improvements and that it actually leads to the cost of the registration process of companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34939	One announcement, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget Mr. Šime Prtnječa called a meeting of the Committee today at 13:30 in the hall of Dr. Ante Starčević, 149. I.T. floor. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34940	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law that should have that idea of the stop shop we talked about last week in a faster, more efficient, smarter way. Before we begin on the very text of the Law, I would like to ask the promoters to give the texts that come to this home on the lecture. The fact that the text says "non-existent" separately makes the complete text unworthy. I'm not saying that someone particularly illiterate happens, but that's why there's a lesson, so there's a procedure to avoid such things. I'd like to ask nicely if it doesn't happen, it goes by in public, then the comments are what they already are. The intensity of the law, therefore, is to improve that system one stop shop. Speaking of languages, it seems to me that last time we agreed and the president said that the promoters should avoid that stop shop expression, we talked about the expression all in one place or another. However, the text again appears, obviously this lawmaker's momentum, i.e. the legislator, is firm and should probably be broken by a warrant. The aim, therefore, is to speed up the process of enrolment and hastening companies in the register, i.e. from the court register. This is a matter of various mechanisms through the articles of the Law, which I will discuss later. But primarily by eradicating Article 41a. The law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. states that those who establish the company intend to register in the court register are obliged to provide confirmation that, as owner, the co-owner has paid all taxes and contributions in other companies in which he participates, i.e. there is no obligation to the State. This article is deleted as if we were living in Switzerland. What happened badly in the transformation, privatisation, establishment of a company, concerns this particular situation. It's precisely that certain tycoons founded dozens, including hundreds of companies. One was bankrupted, failed, not paying their obligations to the state, not to the workers, the other was founded, the capital moved in some strange ways to the other, and the third, then the fifth, and then the 28th, and whichever. I'm, I realize I need to speed up the process, but the question is, is this really a real mechanism? In the final instance, paying taxes and tax controls is one of the serious signs I will not say the functioning of the rule of law, but the seriousness of the state as such. If a state can go through the system without paying taxes and remain a prominent citizen, entrepreneur and whatnot, then something with that state is wrong. And that, unfortunately, happens in a large amount of cases. A similar situation with the importance of contributions for workers, we have witnessed the situation at last in the press, and each of us knows at least 10 such cases, that people have worked for years, received some money, those who were not aware that the employer had not paid any contributions to them unconsciously that they had no health insurance, unconscious that they had no pension insurance. So, even when it was in the law, there were wise men who were able to get past the provisions of the law. If we delete it completely from the law now, I'm afraid we'll lose all control. Because obviously these normal direct control systems don't work. One of the things that this Law deals with in most parts is the erasure of the unique number of citizens in order to protect privacy of data, but how it works. Now the question arises, how long were we here, not us, this convocation, past synergy, meaningful and wise, by abolishing the unique home number of citizens, namely, which the secret information is about in that unique home number of citizens? About when a man was born. But that information, for example, still gives here. That information is seen in a mass of other places. I don't see what happened here, except for the fact that now it's of course harder to find a citizen, because there's not such a single mark? In Article 6, the former Article 15(2) refers to the signature of the station, i.e. the electronic signature is given in the register after the power of that solution, and not only electronically, I guess, this signature normally on paper, it seems to me that it is a mistake. Article 9 of the amendment to Article 25(2) states that the amendments to the register are made by the same procedure as the entry, if the law does not provide otherwise. And the law doesn't make it any different. The law states that changes are made as well as enrolments. What's with the phrase? It's one phrase that gets in the crowd of legal proposals, it doesn't seem to make much sense in this case. In Article 18, Article 38a is amended as follows: Paragraph 3 says, once again, a phrase that does not mean God knows what, will be determined. It doesn't say who, or when they're going to determine. It should be clearly and decadently written, the court will determine registration within 15 days, 20 days, 30 days as the procedure already allows. And at the end of Article 29 of the amendment, it's a former Article 53(1), revealing something that I can't say that we like at the HNS-PGS Club and that it contradicts these discussions so far. Namely, the decision to register the court shall be made within 15 days, except where there are reasonable reasons not to do so within 15 days. Now, that's justifiable reasons, of course, it doesn't say in there. It's like the phrases at the level of those phrases are usually going to be. If you're going to do something normally, you won't. So we know in advance that under certain conditions, but undefined conditions won't do it. All in all, it seems to us at the HNS Club PGS that this is a step forward in profiling, simplifying and improving the efficiency of the registration system in the court register. Of course, if some of these remarks I've made here are appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34941	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34942	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to say very simply that the HSS Club cannot support the amendments to this Law on the Court Register because this is how the Proposer opens Aladin's lamp, which has been successfully closed for the past five years. We allow ourselves to let go of the spirit and put back into play those players who, by famous models five, six, ten, and more years ago, cheated on the state, cheated on their fellow entrepreneurs, and left tens of billions unpaid both in taxes, contributions and debts to their business partners. It was reportedly to reduce the steps in the registration of companies and this is one of the major efforts that the applicant made to make the procedure faster. However, I ask the applicant how this will be accelerated because the FINA normally provides for confirmation whether these companies are liable to the state and others or not, so that automation can contribute to the registration file of companies. So these are actually the same steps, the same procedure, in the same place you get paper and it's completely unclear why the proposer allegedly wants to make it easier for the entrepreneur to start a company. This explanation of the applicant that we are actually allowing domestic potential entrepreneurs to establish a society without confirmation, whether or not they paid contributions at least funny. It's just the other way around. I think that we should be interested and who in Croatia is the founder of companies, whether it is founded by some capital of suspicious origin, whether money laundering may occur. We in Croatia should be interested in who buys the Croatian coast, who will buy agricultural land tomorrow and what origin this capital has. Croatian citizens we know how to control. If someone 100 thousand kuna is carrying out a transaction through FINA, that citizen is bound to report, but here when millions of euros of foreign capital of unknown origin that invests, we are not ready to control. This law allows this "Aladdin" to come out of the lamp and among domestic entrepreneurs who want to allegedly invest but at the same time lie and cheat on the state of course and entrepreneurs. I wonder who will pay taxes after this opportunity in Croatia. Again, those small pensioners, craftsmen, citizens, and the large allegedly potential investors will be allowed to establish five, ten, and even a hundred companies, on principle, when one is re-indebted, when it remains due to establish another and the other one to remain in debt again, establish five, fifteen and a hundred. Therefore, it would probably be wise for the applicant to give up the amendment to this article where such a procedure is allowed. It would probably be wise to give up the article where we say that enrollment can actually be done in a poetic way where there would no longer be a nomenclature but that any entrepreneur could describe what he wants to do. This is at least ridiculous because experience from the application of the Law on Commercial Society tells us that it is a well-coordinated and stalking job and this is unusually important for statistics because when we perform the registration of activities then we settle into a particular branch of entrepreneurship, then our partner knows what we do. It's so completely unclear how that would happen. The procedure would be prescribed by a minister who should establish a list of activities. I believe that the model so far is more than good, where the nomenclature was published in "The People's Newspaper" and the entrepreneur had enough choice to decide what to do. If it is necessary to change that nomenclature or to supplement it, it is certainly a better model than that to determine in a poetic way what we will do. If this law passes with the possibility to establish a company without paying taxes and contributions then actually this stop shop will turn into one stop shop because it will be recognized by those who want to cheat, who have done so so far and, of course, become involved in such a form of entrepreneurship. In any case, we release not only domestic but also foreign current defaults, of course and potential defaults that will know how to use this space and who will be so in debt for a short time that both state and entrepreneurship will have a big problem. It's interesting that banks could protect themselves from these. The banks have introduced and introduce all the tighter registers of debtors, so all those who have loans, and if you're over-indebted, you can't get a loan in the bank. Well, isn't it time for the state to finally start running some form of register for those entrepreneurs who cheat on the state? Don't we remember that five, six years ago, tens of billions of kunas were unpaid and were still actually unpaid taxes and contributions. 5% of entrepreneurs owe over 50% to the state. Only 5% and 5% of these have deceived the Croatian state and in this way we are reopening the possibility of Aladin's spirit coming out again and that in a completely different way that has nothing to do with entrepreneurship, which has nothing to do with the stop shop, such activity is possible. Apparently, the banks are burned enough, and this time they're smoking cold. I ask that the promoter give up this and exactly the opposite that in FINA where this will be the famous stop shop we haven't established in a year, that there is a register of debtors not only for those who don't pay for the state but also for entrepreneurship. We'd like to go to the HSS Club to make it impossible to start a company fan. We'd like to collect taxes and contributions that are bad again, which we all know to be better. We'd like this indifference that's worsened backwards for a few months not to turn into a chronic if we're going to allow new start-ups to generate it even more. We would also like those who work to receive wages, we would like those for whom no contributions are paid to be paid. However, this is only possible if we follow those entrepreneurs who have completely different intentions. I assure you, there are still enough of them in Croatia. They'd like to make a profit but they wouldn't want to pay the state or the workers. Therefore, the HSS Club will propose an amendment and propose that Article 41a remain, i.e. not deleted, allowing those who have not paid taxes and contributions to start a company. It's only when they get confirmation from the FINE, which is that once again I say one step in the same place at the stop shop, then they'll be able to start a company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34943	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34944	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. What is the current situation regarding enrolment in the court register, new economic operators best tell the fact that many are waiting for a year to register and still do not solve the problem of enrolment in the court register. The HSP Club is always against the fact that laws are important, and as is the case with the urgent procedure, because whenever some laws are passed by an emergency procedure, solutions that are actually just because of this fact and put in place as in this case the possibility of a new company being set up and entered into, regardless of the fact that those who establish this company have settled their obligations to the State. It is a very dangerous provision that has just introduced additional disorder into this area and related financial disciplines and related to the functioning of the rule of law. For this reason, the HSP Club proposes that this Act be referred to a regular procedure, because the truth of the will, if you wanted to make those stop shop projects whole and not stop, stop shop like the current situation, then all those laws should have been sent in a package in two readings long before, because then you would not have a situation that is present, we are talking about new projects, new employment and everything else, but we see the fact that the number of unemployed in February 2004 was 326 thousand and 29, now in February of this year is 330, over 330 thousand 183, the truth of the will shows HNS which promised 200 thousand new jobs but is good to have such data. Therefore, we ask that this Law be carried out in two readings so that all issues can be resolved and that we prevent those who have already stolen the state, who have not paid towards the state the obligations they had to make, that they register, from creating new companies regardless of the fact that they have previously settled obligations, then we will continue to have new cases of both Finagre and Sisak Irons and all other things. Therefore, we must not allow the introduction of an additional financial disorder into the area itself because the fact that, regarding all the obligations, all the duties that employers have are 5% related to the same. Therefore, we agree that it is good for this entry problem to be resolved quickly. But the fact that we're talking about a 15-day deadline is still a possibility, except in justified cases. Well, the law can't stand situations like we had that case with the FINE that they'll work for those stop shop all things other than those for which they don't have technical and other options that are not prescribed again, which is exactly what they're going to do. So if we want to solve this effectively, then we need to say exactly when there are these justified cases. The case would be justified if he did not pay the state his obligations, it would be a careful case for me if he did not register, or if he did not register a new company. Therefore, it is obvious that the Law on the Court Register contains provisions that make it difficult and challenge the registration of entities in the court register, but the fact that the State is acting on this important issue suggests the following information that we, in force, have changed the Law on the Court Register twice by regulations with legal force. The fact itself speaks enough of how such an important problem is being approached. It is also important that the winding-up procedure is not fully regulated by this Act and it is good that the provisions of this Act are in line with the Law on Commercial Companies, the Law on Cooperatives, the Law on Original Numbers, the Law on Banks, the Banking Act. And we are also now coming to a very big problem that has so far been, that there has been no regulated notes of the dispute as an important element that contributes to the principles of the public and trust in the public book. It's a very important thing, but we're coming back to that situation that we've had that assures us that these changes will be done in the way we want them to. This means that the full public is secured because again we can get to that situation that we will get to the data quickly but again there will be incorrect data due to the fact that this notation was not made in time, as the whole situation was to be said in conversion and privatisation despite the fact that those who privatised did not carry out all the obligations towards the state, but that same fund, or agency, allowed those same ones to transfer ownership to other companies and would now mean by eradicating and all of the provisions of Article 41a, would enable, with the part that they were talking about antiquity, to legalise that part in the way they all wanted. Therefore, because of all these remarks that I made on behalf of the HSP Club, we cannot support the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, we ask that the first reading be carried out at this session and that all these things and related, these are important remarks are resolved so that no new company can be entered unless these same owners have fulfilled their obligations to the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34945	Thank you. SDP club, Honored Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34946	Thank you, Mr. President, for the honor of the Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. This Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register by the Government and the public is shown as one that will enable the urgency of the conduct, the speed of the registration of the company and the relief of all those actions that precede it. It also appears to be a great complement to that system of one stop shop. That it thus testifies to a number of provisions that are truly better and should be highlighted. However, what is getting worse in relation to the existing situation is in such proportion and of such importance, the colleague said quite a bit, speaking on behalf of the HSS Club, that it is simply not for that reason that the SDP Club will not be able to support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Court Register, because the purpose, namely, of showing the Law by the Government to facilitate the registration and registration of companies on the one hand, on the other hand, is the networking of the system of one stop shop is something to be accepted. However, I say, the situation is this, and I will later say what provisions are being made that exactly the opposite will be made difficult, i.e. the registration of regular, or those quality societies, requirements which need to be met immediately by the court as defined by the existing law, and on the other hand what is very, very dangerous, which is, what the entire Croatian public is upset about, and that is to facilitate the registration and registration of those who remain in debt both to the state and to the individual. We are now opening this possibility again at a large door, and I am talking here and within the framework of the amendments to the executive law and in the amendments to this Law, where the provision of the article is thus deleted, the existing article 41, and citizens must know what it is to do to apply for the establishment of a society, so the founder of society is obliged and therefore confirmed by the public notary that he has fulfilled all obligations to the State. So here if we wanted to be effective not to delete this provision but to, but also to complement it to individuals, as well as to individuals where the powerful verdict so is an executive document against such a person. It would be a step forward, and not now under cover, I believe that the promoter really had good intentions but I think those who participated in working groups have a serious intention of protecting the debtor. It is also seen in the amendments to the Executive Act. That amendments to the executive law have made the situation worse for the believer. That's how this Law makes it easier for debtors. I say the obvious provision is Article 41, and that is exactly what the SDP Club states it cannot vote to amend this law. If the motionor withdraws this provision and leaves the existing provision in place, we would support these amendments because I say there are also good solutions that are better existing, existing conditions. But what I would particularly like to point out is that the court registers are another of the fastest and most painless things that courts do in the first place. And there are no delays at all like we have a case in the case and as we have a case in litigation. There are still the poorest courts, and the law that exists has made it possible for them to do so. We have something that people will like very much. In order for a copy, copy and extract or certificate to be issued within 8 days of the date of submission of the application. But what if that doesn't happen? Nothing to anyone. This provision, it would be a mere declarative provision which would make sense so that the laws do not look more like picture books than that there are really certain sanctions that those who apply it and also those to which it applies. Otherwise, I say we embarrass ourselves as a legislative authority, and later a court that enforces such laws. Therefore, this provision would only have meaning if, if the court did not do so within 8 days under threat or that the non-transscription of a copy of the excerpt or confirmation would make it more difficult to injure the official duty. Of course we come to questions and judicial possibilities. Here with these things it's possible because it's done somewhere right away without any delay. Similarly, the existing provision that the Registrar Court is required to make enrolment in the register without delay is therefore only to a certain extent complementary to this provision, that provision has existed so far. And now, if we want to have a reform impact precisely to really respect this provision, then we should also provide for some meaningful sanctions because we see that these are often such norms of a declarative, instructive nature that mean nothing in themselves. And the courts are obliged to write so far, to send the verdict within 15 days or 8 days in emergency cases. And the amendment was a significant law on litigation that we brought here unanimously a few years ago, two years ago, when the violation of such a provision had, made it possible to sanction i.e. where such a judge does not make such a significant violation of the provisions of the Law on Prosecution. Therefore, if we really want it to be so, that the Registrar Court makes an enrolment, one orderly request without delay. If there's no obstacle to her not doing so, then. that the request is orderly then it should be sanctioned in such a way that it appears to be an injury, a serious violation of official duty. I'm just saying then it makes sense that's the only way we have to, we can be credible with the citizens. This obligation, too, is true, in Article 7 that it is more than sufficient to publish in the National Journal and not in the daily newspaper, and it is exactly what the Proposer says and explains with this article that in such a way the cost of publication is reduced in the daily press, in one bar of the daily newspapers. However, in such a way debtors may find out, they rarely read regularly not the National Journal, but surely the daily press is. So it was also one of the possibilities, one of the possibilities where they can control the order of the enrolment or the disabling of those who are over-indebted, who are starting new societies, and are insinuating the old for one single reason only to avoid their obligation. So this was one of the ways, one of the ways was where the citizens themselves were able to sort of inform themselves of their debtor. If we are talking and if we are really in favour of the "one stop shop" then all those who issue the permits, who issue solutions like in this case, it is a court register, although somewhere, although in many countries this does not lead to courts at all, however, wherever it is necessary to provide some information that is conducted by another court if there is a networked system, and should exist in order to achieve this idea "one stop shop" then why does the court refer to the party and deliver a land-booked excerpt that is not more than 8 days old. So how long does he wait for that excerpt? Then it's quite logical that we're not asking the party at all, but all that at least such an institution of the same kind can obtain, so get it by networking its own system. And to talk about "one stop shop" then that should talk about networking of different systems. But for the first step, surely this is difficult, or if there is a good will, there is already such infrastructure. Therefore, there is no obstacle to reacting in this way and in this way in order to implement this particular idea, and not to be a party, because if we ask the party to contribute if, when the request is set and requires information, an extract from a land book that is not 8 days old, then all that is said forward is at least so declarative and which I also say suffers criticism because there is no sanctions falling into the water. Because if a court has to make such a decision for eight days, this cannot be more than eight days old, and the party is waiting for it and for a few months it's all pointless. These are the important comments that the SDP has and, regardless of all, if it remains an old provision which, from Article 41a, the SDP Club would vote and support this final bill, however, if the government remains resilient to rehabilitate debtors in this way and enable debtors to register and continue to run through other business and health entities. Likewise, according to individuals, we cannot or will not give consent to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34947	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34948	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to point out, Madam Secretary of State, that I fully support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. And I find a foothold for that kind of thinking for two very basic reasons. The first is either the first reason is to comply with this regulation as a special regulation that regulates all those legal institutes related to the court register itself and the registration of economic operators in the same. With the provisions of other laws, legal solutions to this area of law represent one consistent whole. In particular, it is a matter of compliance with the Company Act and, in particular, with respect to its latest amendments and applications since 1 January 2004. And which is, as the most important regulation of the commercial branch of law, to a large extent, in line with the European Conventions. The other regulations that are clearly in line with this bill are therefore, or it is, the Cooperative Act, the Code of Origin. The Act on the Protection of Personal Data, there is the Act on Banks and the Banks Act. Another fundamental reason is found in terms of the development of concrete legal institutes of the proposed law, which undoubtedly point to an increase in the efficiency of enrolment in the court register. So, as far as the enrolment is concerned. Second, equality in the rights and obligations of domestic and foreign and legal and legal persons. The third is therefore evident that these changes result in reduced enrolment costs. Simplification and acceleration and acceleration of enrolment procedures shall be simplified. And allowing for simpler inclusion and start-up of economic and entrepreneurial activities here should actually be further highlighted. Which specifically implies a reduction in the number of approvals required for entry. These data gatherings for enrollment in a smaller number of places. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the proposal to amend the law affirms on one hand the principle of public and the principle of trust in the court register, respectively, registration in the court register. Therefore, the first principle implies that all persons have an equal position and the possibility of being able to see the court register without having to prove legal interest, and on the other hand, the principle of trust implies that everyone can therefore be called upon to register for both the data and the facts entered or entered in the court register. In line with this principle, no one can really be called upon to be entered into the court register and published in accordance with the law, so that they were not known to him. As mentioned above, as a very important proposed amendment, I am finding exactly what was mentioned in the previous discussions in Article 22. Proposal for a law repealing the provision of Article 41a. The law on the court register. In my opinion, it is justified here that this provision slowed down the enrolment, so it slowed down the registration of new societies in the court register. As well as the registration of changes in already existing companies. All documents provided for in the deleted article did not constitute a guarantee that the tax and contribution obligations were settled. Nor do there be any obligations with the basis and public administrations on which the records are not kept by the Ministry of Finance and do not keep records of the Tax Administration. By removing or abandoning this provision, the procedure for enrolment is simplified and the procedure for the parties themselves is accelerated, and I cannot agree that it is the rehabilitation of debtors, the privileged position of debtors, or that the bill itself puts the debtors in a position of priority. Because by nature things are owed a religious relationship or the relationship of debtors and creditors and established and regulated by some other laws and regulations. Not by law enrolment in the court register. And just sanctioning some illegal behaviour especially in relation to debt religious relations in the present sense of certain debates is also a criminal offence. Therefore, it is an element of criminal prosecution, i.e. criminal legal liability and cannot essentially be the basis or most of the basis of the provision of the Law on registration in the court register. So I accept the principle of a principle developed, that the maximum in terms of both economic and efficiency is simplified to register entry. All those anomalies, in particular, arising from the business of companies and the creation of debt religious relations, of course, but in the system of functioning of the legal system, should be resolved both more effectively and better but of course in one other or in the application of other legal rules. And especially when they are in the area of criminal legal responsibility. Furthermore, Article 27 or the proposed amendments to Article 51 have left out the national classification of activities, with the reason that the same provision is, therefore, the provision of the existing law to a certain extent and contrary to the principle of so-called principle of entrepreneurial freedom. The business of companies can therefore be carried out by any authorised activity. Therefore, any permitted activity which is not legally prohibited or not contrary to the morals of society. As important as I find a newspaper in Article 20 of the proposed amendments and in the sense of supplementing Article 40. The law on the court register. In order to comply precisely with the provisions of the Law on Commercial Society in the development of that new Institute which is incorporated into or elaborated by the Law on Commercial Companies, it is the Institute for the division of social capital. Generally or more generally, the provision put in place here is indeed trying to avoid the possible problem and the problem consists of records or possibilities of collapsing these two laws. Furthermore, there is absolutely a need to support it, so I will now, in my debate and, of course, look at those amendments to the law of this proposed law which goes on to reduce the legal deadlines, so here is the question of the legal deadlines that have been reduced by the proposal, and that is 15 days in the context of the outcome of the entry solution. Or the eight-day deadline when it comes to the deadline when it's... the registration or registration of the court register of the party shall be provided. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question whether this law or only this law immediately provides for sanctions in any case, in any case, for the unlawful conduct of authorised persons authorised to keep enrolment in the court register. In my opinion, there is not as much negativity or as no negative character as we have had the opportunity to hear in certain discussions. In fact, the reduction of these deadlines to 15 days and to 8 days is now determined by the law of the deadlines in which certain documents are to be reached by the party. The absolute disregard of these deadlines by the party of the competent officials withdraws responsibility. We can open a debate about what kind of responsibility that should be. But this is, in the context of the bill's proposal, certainly an improvement or improvement of the solution. And not some kind of solution that wouldn't go the way it's going, I'd dare say the intensity of this whole bill. And that's the economics, efficiency and acceleration of all registrations in the court register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34949	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34950	Well, Mr. Vice President, I'm replicating a colleague who said that the abolition, so the erasure of this existing article in 41st, has not so far guaranteed the believers that they will be played by the debtors. That is correct, however, because this one could give a false statement to the public notebook. And now what needs to be changed? It is necessary to change that the state itself finds this information whether someone owes her something, first of all, and then also has relevant data from the judicial authority of its third branch, whether or not it insists on a decision of power. And not to absolutely eliminate such a norm which meant such an obstacle to such faceless debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34951	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34952	I will replicate to my dear colleague Anticevic and return to her last sentence, or the last sentence she said about such, what kind of... not colleagues if this is a criminal offence. Someone who works or falsely gives his information to either avoid or who committed a fraud should fall under the sanctions of the Penal Code. So he committed a crime and all that I am in his debate to say and it is that this is a regulation that regulates registration in the Court Register and that needs to be simplified as much as possible. And not to try with provisions as it was tried with a provision of 41st, which is now proposed to delete that article or its amendment because it is simply impossible, legally impossible with three, four, five or more regulations of a particularly procedural nature, so what the results, or practice, show it to regulate illegal behaviour. Even cut them down to some kind of bearable measure. Because if it's a criminal offence, then it's a criminal offence, which falls under the influence of criminal law, both procedural and material. The Proposer or Government here wants to absolutely affirm the principle of efficiency, speed, legality in the Court Register. And of course if we start to develop that principle then absolutely these remarks of yours don't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34953	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So no one slows down, no matter how much some discussions here were very hard no one argues that this law brings some kind of improvement. However, obviously that there are here, I would say two views of whether the Court Register should be the one that will disable certain crimes or should be viewed cumulatively. So I would say in view of the situation and in the judiciary given the state of the parties that are very difficult to exorcise their justice, that it should take advantage of all the possibilities that parties in the procedure that are very often suspended for the sake of the viscosity and resourcefulness of those who are prone to break the law and also through the Court Register allow people to get to justice easier. I'll tell you a detail you probably heard as well as I do in residential construction. Construction entrepreneurs register the company, build 20 apartments, sell apartments and avoid their obligations from the warranty period, etc. They're shutting down the company right now. Now imagine the one who invested, I don't know, 50 or 100 thousand euros in that apartment, which are his torments to bring justice to the realization of a guaranteed deadline from the one that no longer exists. Look, there's a lot of examples like that. And that's why I'm simply appealing that even through this law we try to somehow enable all those who are actually prone to some sort of illegal behavior to be sanctioned. I just don't think that's too much for us. But in principle, I agree with you that solutions should be sought elsewhere. But given the situation in the judiciary, the state of mind of society simply and the Court Register should be used to prevent thieves, shovels and those who tend to break the law to actually cheat on citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34955	Thank you very much. Answer Mr. Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34956	Well, I'd like to rephrase Mr. Tomcic the following way. I agree with you, I don't mind that kind of thinking. Your example is from practice and it is true. There are even worse examples. However, you cannot prepare or in practice expect the results of some procedural regulation that regulates registration in the Court Register and intends to be effective, so it intends to speed up the registration procedure and resolve the situation which is now and in a certain sense and the problem of total enrolment in the Court Register as one of our specific records in such a way that, in terms of criminal-legislative thinking, you regulate the conduct of a criminal offence by means of a provision of that law. I agree with you. All offences in particular relating to the debt of religious relations or to the intention of causing bankruptcy or other irregularities which we have in terms of the application of the Company Act, the suspension of intentional companies, etc. You need to sanction. But here the legal question is whether it's possible by this regulation. Because if we have a cumulative number of rules that solve criminal responsibility, then we have a vague situation, and that's why we're in practice in these situations. We must have a clear situation in the Criminal Law both in the Prosecution Law and in the Material Law in order to combat criminal offences in the area of Commercial Law. All that I want to say is that this is not the regulation, there are other regulations that regulate and, in a preventive sense, the committing of criminal offences in the sense of the application of the Law on Commercial Society. Crime is a crime, and enrolment in the Trade Court or in the Trade Register is something else. I think it is the government's and the proposing's intensity to simplify this process to join those standards to European Union standards. And be careful, the crimes in this area have been and will be, I'm not sure that this provision of the law would have reduced the number of these crimes...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34957	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34958	And I think the practice also points out that since the 41st time the number of crimes in this area has not been reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34959	Thank you very much. Okay. You spoke. At 11 o'clock and 1 minute has passed the time to sign up for 10 minutes. It's Mr. Representative Joseph Vresk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I have to say, the proposal for this law reminds me of the Land Book Bill. When we were really saying that we wanted to make the land-book procedure more efficient, that indeed the parties do not have time or can wait in the land-book departments of municipal courts for so long and so often and so many times the duration of this procedure. We made this law, in fact, that in a quick, efficient way, we allowed people to get incorrect data. The goal was to take care of the land books. I don't want to say that efficiency isn't the problem either. Yeah. But it's not the primary. I want to say the same thing here. Namely, if there were no four court registrations in the Republic of Croatia or if there were no problems in those four registration courts, which are Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka, the government would probably not be able to change this law either. There's a problem. I agree that this is the kind of proposal that should have taken place, but it's not a good idea to go through an emergency procedure like this. I don't just want to say here on the problematic provision of Article 20 of this law, which is a major problem, which actually means the privileged position of the state. You know one thing is criminal proceedings and the other is the payment of the trustee's claim. I don't think that provision of this article is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, I don't understand why you don't respect the classification of professions. Well, I guess not all people in the same way, all those who report what they're doing and use the same expressions. How can someone who has the right to see into the court register know what's going on? In fact, the proposer, in the opening statement of this law, specifies exactly what the objectives of this law are. It's good that it states that the goal is efficiency. It is good to state that this is the public's goal, even without proving that legal interest. It's also good that it's an objective of efficiency, it's good that it's true, but look what happens when principles are argued in the law. The aim of the public court register means that everyone without proof of legal interest has not only the right to insight but also the right to obtain certain information from that register in the form of a print-up. The objective of truthfulness should be met in a way that all data contained in the court register must be true. correct. And now look at the standard contained in Article 42 of this Law, which states exactly, I quote "The Register Court will reject the registration application if the applicant does not pay the court fee referred to in Article 79 of this Act and do not exceed the costs of the publication of the registration no later than 15 days. And it's all so beautiful in there. What does that really mean? For the court to be effective, it will indeed reject the application for registration, it will resolve the file. Someone with a legal interest, so whoever needs to know the data from the court register won't get that information. They're just not gonna be right. I don't understand why such a provision. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, if I recall correctly, was that last week we were discussing in this House the amendments to the executive law, and then in that law we stated that the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia would be forced to charge, so in the framework of the executive procedure, all debts towards the state, so also court fees. I don't think that was really supposed to be written in that law because it was the obligation of the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Law. But that's how it works. What does that mean? What's the State's Attorney's Office gonna do here? So it was simply meant to be a provision that the registration court had to resolve any application and that it had not paid a fee and that the State's attorney's office had to be forced to pay such a fee by force. That's the essence of what we talked about last week, and that's the essence of the truthfulness of the court register. You can see that, colleagues and colleagues, when principles conflict and principles are most important in writing such laws. It's not clear why the proposer, I'll say it again, is going by law of urgency. Nothing's gonna happen to this being the first law-reading thing, nothing like this changes won't fix anything fast. I therefore propose that this be the first reading of the law, otherwise of course what fellow Pecek said on behalf of the club, me and my club will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34961	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34962	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I have to say, I didn't expect such a big change and the addition of the Court Register Act to come by emergency procedure. That's the first one. Secondly, I think that if laws change so much that it would be better to prepare a proposal for a new law. Thirdly, the fact is that the argument of an emergency procedure in the nature of things and by the content of the text of the law that is proposed to amend and supplement is in fact denied only this justification for an emergency procedure, so there is no practical reason for the existence of an emergency procedure, and for this reason I think it would be necessary at least to accept that this law is conducted in the first reading and that the possibility is also considered until the second reading, not only to go with the amendment and the supplement, but possibly to replace this proposal for a bill with a new text of law and complete. Why am I saying this about an emergency procedure? As a key reason for the emergency procedure, I quote, since it is necessary to enable and create assumptions as quickly as possible for the start of business of economic operators as possible, we believe that there are justified reasons etc. At the same time, the transitional and final provisions of amending and supplementing this law states that the procedures for enrolment in the court register will be completed before the entry into force of this Act in accordance with the rules in force until its entry into force. Thus, by nature things will actually continue to operate under the now applicable law and with all the implementing regulations that are present in that part. So it is obvious that such a prepared change is not really necessary for this reason, which is stated here to be brought and brought by an emergency procedure. The second thing is very important to see is that the Court Register Act itself has 91 articles and here it is proposed to change a total of 48 members. So more than 50%. In addition, some new articles are also introduced to some new solutions that are unusual. For example, it is said among other things that the application for registration will be rejected if the costs of registration or the application for registration are not met, and that, for example, if the creditors do not pay an advance within a certain period of application, the application will be rejected in the procedure, etc., etc. And now look at the very interesting situation. We have a situation in the winding-up procedure. Believers who should have taken out of the liquidation of the remaining assets of the company that was in bankruptcy and ended up in liquidation to settle their claims in order to mitigate the damage that had taken place for them and here we tell them now that if they do not pay the advance of the court then they will not receive, that part of their claim will also be rejected. It's an incredible structure, and I think in a situation like this, it's actually a question of who's being punished here. Apparently, the believer is punished and it is on account of taking more care of the protection of the interest of the court itself in acting as if the court were on its own and not working among other things as a believer. The third thing I'd like to notice is that the law brings in a lot of confusion, not cleaning things up. In fact, even more specifically, this applies to foreign entities although in principle it should go, it tends to try to equate all legal entities, including foreign legal persons. Namely, Article 27 states "The subject of business, activity is entered in the court register in accordance with special laws", a little letter of law. Therefore, certain specific laws include certain types of activities carried out in the Republic of Croatia. That's not true. As is known in the Republic of Croatia, there is a unique classification of activities, a statistical unique classification of activities that have been published and which, of course, exists in registration courts and everything else in order to work. Therefore, it is obvious that there is a need to discuss the issue of aligning activities with the single classification of activities statistically rather than with specific laws, since special laws no longer determine activities as is known. In the end, this classification activity was also adopted in order to comply with the European Union. Of course, there is also an additional question here that, independently of the single classification, an activity can be properly registered and one which is not listed, for example, in the single statistical classification provided that, of course, certain specific laws are not prohibited or not opposed to the morals of society. Now, that's a very interesting question. It is here indicated by the company's morale that no provision or registration law has actually been applied, the register did not indicate, in fact, in relation to certain activities, that this social ethical category of morality of society applies and implies its content. And in such a situation, it should be said, adding that it must then be worked out with special laws. What categories or formats of companies must be respected to this effect in order not to be able to carry out such an activity among others. In addition, of course, there are a whole series of questions that, or solutions that cause at least an inquiry. A very interesting solution to Article 45(2), which states when the Register Court finds the application, pardons the application for correction or additions, will set a period of 8 days for the re-application of applications. It seems to me that some things don't get understood here, if it's re-application then it'll be twice payment at the very least of the court's court fee because it's two applications. And actually it's by nature things about one nature only she's not completed enough or needs to be corrected. Therefore, it is not that he submits a new application but should return the amended and updated application within 8 days of the court's order, because it is the same application that is not two applications. And this, as prescribed, actually points to two applications. Of course, it is also very interesting that the solution set out in Article 19 is to initiate the registration procedure in the register to submit a publicly certified application to the court. Now, here, it is certainly clear when it comes to companies where there is a report or a reduction in the share capital increase, etc., a public notary, but what about cooperatives, what about the cooperative alliance, etc., or not? Are they going to have to verify these documents in front of the public notebook and that practically the public notebook besides that paper has no other insight into the factual state of it? How's he gonna verify it? Therefore, this issue should be further resolved and made as operational and operational as possible. It is also interesting that, in Article 29, a decision on entry in the register must be made within 15 days of the date on which the Regulation was submitted. I think we should still do this nomotechnically for the sake of content. It will not add a solution to the registration of the court register but will add a solution to the proposal for an application for registration in the court register. And what will be the solution, whether it will be a solution to enroll or not, whether it will be rejected or rejected will actually depend on the question that is present and on the content and quality of the proposal submitted. For all these reasons, and especially for the reason that it is and among other things I repeat about the Fourth Amendment and the addition of the Law to amend it since the 91st more than 48th article, that the reasons for the urgent procedure set out in the reasoning of the Law on the need for adoption could not be supported by an emergency procedure and we suggest that it go to first reading to elaborate. Of course, there is a new quality here, and that is to agree this Law with the Code of Origin, the unique home number of citizens is being released, where we are fortunate to have done so long ago, then probably many of the things that we have had, the inconveniences of legal nature but also political, economic and social refugees in Croatia in the last 10, 15 years, and that in a relatively simple way, we have been able to enable individuals or legal persons to make foreign property including real estate, houses and apartments resell when it comes, and sell when it comes to persons who have been exiled, avoided or displaced during the war... In fact, their true will to empower such a power of attorney. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34963	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the end of the debate on this proposal to amend and supplement the Court Register Act, which is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure, please allow me, of course, to thank you for the contribution you have made in this debate, but I would like to refer to some of the relevant remarks that have been made here. The truth is that this Law has a lot of changes and additions, even 48, which is the total of the Law represents a great... But let me remind you, this is an introductory part of this amendment is really a alignment with the existing legal texts, so those who were previously harmonised, first of all, with the basic Law that this Law was to be brought into line with, with the Law on Commercial Companies, that is, its Amendments and Supplements adopted less than a year ago, and the opportunity to comply with both the Code of Origin and the Law on Cooperatives has been used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is why there are indeed great, many amendments that are actually harmonisation and where this Law was to be brought into line with these laws. The second part of the amendment refers to, in fact, the opportunity for the Law to be made even more effective, therefore, to speed up the registration process, although I agree with those remarks that have been made here to be satisfied in the dispute with some other public registers such as the Law on Land Books when it comes to commercial societies. However, procedures go relatively quickly except for some who are really waiting for an inappropriate second but that does not justify us not doing everything to make this system as effective as possible. The most controversy, discussion and opposition has caused one provision, i.e. Article 22, erasure of the provision of Article 41a. It is true that this Law on the Court Register has been amended four times, of which two times precisely to enter, or later amend the provision of this article, first it was a regulation with legal force and later it was introduced through the text of the law. These changes were made, for example, in 98 years ago, so six years ago with a basic intensity and an intention to prevent, in order to prevent, in fact, the registration of indirect, commercially unfair entities that shut down their companies, do not meet their obligations to their creditors and society, do not pay taxes, other public taxes. And then and now, it means that its introduction into our legal system, and then its abolition has caused, quite understandablely, the intention that it is seeking to achieve great debates, and then I remember six years ago, experts said that the system in that direction, therefore, through the disabling of enrolment, the establishment of new companies to these entities that fulfil their obligations cannot be achieved by the Court Register Act. However, the provisions passed from, here they have been living in our legal system for six years, now the remarks that should still be left as said, here I will dare use other people's words "what kind of control mechanism". However, I think we should ask these few questions. The first question is, is it really a place in the court register to introduce such a control mechanism? The control mechanisms have been obtained, the court register has the purpose of enrolling the company's registration entity and that's the fact. Our system, of course, should neither be allowed by the state nor amnesty by those who meet their obligations to the state or to the believers. And of course it wasn't even intentional when we... And in the government, I have to admit there's been a lot of debate about whether that provision should be deleted or not, precisely for these reasons that were heard here today at the pay phone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the system of tax monitoring, the fulfilment of other obligations is the responsibility and tasks of other bodies. And a series of laws have been passed, systems networked, tax law, tax administration, FINU, an office to prevent money laundering that should meet that goal. That's one thing. Secondly, the question arises, even independently, if we introduce such a control mechanism, did we put it through the provision of Article 41a? Did that entity that shut down start a new society? The provision exists for 6 years, unlike the debate held in the government, today there were no objections to business operators, so those who operate to delete the provision. There's always a question of why? Because she's difficult and difficult for them. I dare say, and that was an observation six years ago that she, however well imagined, will not actually win success and we today have no control of how this provision applies. Why? Because in the court register, you have no record of the last state of shares or shares. So the Trade Court can't control it. And to him, someone, the founder of the company should contribute, allow me only because of the importance of the debate, to quote the provision of Article 41a of a valid and statement certified by the public notary that neither he or the company in which he or she has shares or shares has an outstanding obligation, as well as the confirmation of an authorised legal person performing payment operations, that neither he or the company in which he or she has shares or shares has an unsettled payment order, as well as the confirmation of the tax administration, HZMO and HZZO that neither he or the company having shares or shares has an unsettled obligation. We don't have a way to determine if he or the company that has shares or shares really has how many of these companies in which he has shares or shares and how many of them have outstanding liabilities? The trading register in this situation really depends on the honesty of the one who brings it a certificate. So in this state of affairs, he can always bring him shares or the confirmation of a society where there is no unsettled obligation. And deny these others. Do it unfairly. And so it is obvious and happening because the subjects of those who allegedly are shutting down still find ways to establish themselves because simply our system is not designed in this way and you have no way to at least through the court register, the court register therefore verify that the one who brought him all these certificates really submitted to him, for his companies in which he has shares or shares. That's one thing. Secondly, yes, we have prescribed something else by the Company Act. Something else that is now in direct conflict with this provision of Article 41a that has been discussed today. For a change in the ownership structure of the company's core capital, the situation in the book of business shares is relevant. It is only at the end of the financial year that the court provides information on this. So through this provision of the Law on Commercial Society and a series of other provisions of the Company Act, we had the urge to liberalise and make it possible. And we've introduced such a provision, and now we actually have this provision that's in collegiate with a law that's stronger than that because it's passed for the establishment of companies. These are the reasons why the applicant has indeed assessed all the reasons for and against and yet has chosen to propose to delete one such certificate because it can indeed not be clearly any control mechanism, but rather the fact that it is not really the task of the court register. The second round of objections concerned the entry of activities. Practice has shown in fact that just a hint... the classification of activities during this period of entry into trade registers is not sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are some special laws like the Law on... Communities, Energy laws that have certain specificities to be respected, and I note that even in the applicable law, and even now changed there is still a possibility when there are truly extraordinary situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are in practice rare, but they appear to be valid if something is not prescribed either by national classification of activity or by special law as requested by the registration entity. This is not really some volunteering or poetic freedom but rather a simple necessity so that all entities can be entered and, by all means, assessing both entrepreneurial freedom and the provision of diverse activities carried out in legal traffic. In the end, let me thank everyone again for the debate. Of course, the intensity and intent was to speed up the process, to bring it together on one side, and indeed the court register is reduced to what its task is. The proposer I say will consider all amendments and be obvious about them in the course of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34964	Thank you very much. We have one correction. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34965	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would like to say that it is incorrect that the public, in fact, entrepreneurship, has no objection to the amendments to this Act which deletes the provision of a certificate for those who have not paid their obligations to the State for taxes and contributions. It's just the other way around. Well, the public is upset with the possibility of such an option that those who are in debt, who have cheated, can start one, five and a hundred companies. The amendments to this Act will enable this, and the public will react because when possible 5 and more years ago, numerous court disputes have arisen, indifference has arisen and there has been an inability to collect claims from those who purposely set up such companies. If we accept the amendments to this Law, they will still come to an entrepreneurial stage and that is certainly bad. So the public is responding. The media is full of reactions and problems that arise from non-payment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34966	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34967	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 270. The debate on the text of the Law is over. I'd like a table of amendments, please. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, to be shown about the amendments to the table. Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34968	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34969	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2 to the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34970	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34971	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 3 to the HNS-PGS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34972	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the court register, which is clearly prescribed that after the court adopts a decision on registration, the registration becomes valid. When it is signed electronically by the judge in the computer-run master book while at the same time the judge is obliged to sign the print for the master book run in writing. Therefore, both signatures are required, both manually and electronically, since the party cannot obtain a registration solution until it is electronically signed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34973	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34974	The intention was to simplify the text. I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34975	Amendment withdrawn. Thank you. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34976	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34977	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 5. HNS-PGS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34978	Unfortunately, it cannot be accepted for the reason that the Law on the Court Register is prescribed that the founder, members of society and complements are entered in the register if that is prescribed by law, so that changes must be entered if the law so requires. In fact, the Company Act has made it clear that all changes are not entered in the court register but only those prescribed by the Commercial Society Act, so it is necessary to leave the proposed text as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34979	A colleague of Vuljanic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34980	The intention was to simplify the text again. It's about the law that's being talked about if the law says so. So if it's prescribed then it's prescribed. If it's not prescribed, it's not prescribed. I think it's completely unnecessary, that phrase is repeated not only in this one but in the mass of the law. Please vote on it, it's simply an unnecessary phase that sneaks through the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34981	Okay. Turn yourself in, you need to vote on Amendment 5. You can vote. The result? 33 for the amendment, 5 abstentions, 67 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 6. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34982	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34983	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 7 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34984	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34985	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 8th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34986	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34987	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Nine?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34988	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34989	The club of HNS-PGS representatives becomes an integral part of the Law. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34990	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34991	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 11th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34992	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34993	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 12th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34994	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34995	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34996	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the court register proposed to be deleted and when it was incorporated into the Court Register Act was contrary to the nature and function of the court register. Meanwhile, the installation of this provision into the law has been passed by a series of rules governing tax matter, and through them the state should be protected from tax officials, not through the Law on the Court Register. I will say one more thing, this provision is also contrary to the Law on Commercial Society, since it has prescribed that, for a change in the ownership structure of the underlying capital, it has become a relevant situation in the book of business stakes, and only the notification is delivered in the court register. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34997	Dear Representative Pacek on behalf of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34998	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you've given a very strange explanation. I don't understand how the IRS will affect that one who's in charge of the IRS can't open up a company. In this way you make it possible for everyone who cheats on the state, anyone who cheats on their business partners to start one, the other, the fifth, the tenth or the fifteenth company that would be solely in office not to pay their obligations. That is why the HSS insists on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u34999	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 13. Please engage. We can vote. The result? 32 for the amendment, 6 abstentions, 66 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35000	Yes, it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35001	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 15th representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35002	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35003	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35004	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35005	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 17th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35006	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35007	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 18. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35008	In part, this part shall be accepted for Article 27(2) of the amended Article 51. The Court Register Act replaces the words "activities" with the words "businesses from the district" for the reasons of the activities of companies or any other entity that is entered in the court register as provided for by the Commercial Society Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35009	President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35010	I agree and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35011	This second part is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35012	The amendment in the second part of the amendment of the Legislative Committee, first adopted and becomes an integral part of the Law. 19. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35013	It shall not be accepted for the reason that Article 27 of the amendment and the addition of the Law on the Court Register is in this way in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies which, as the basic law for the Court Register, prescribes what is the subject of the registration entity's business. Furthermore, in the court register, the business of entities under special laws is still more recorded than under the national classification of activities, for example, and the Law on Trade is both the Law on Hostage and other laws, therefore not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35014	Dear Representative Željko Pecek on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35015	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, by accepting this amendment as well as the previous one, you are, in full terms, changing the Law on Commercial Society and all other acts relating to it. You make it possible for those who are obliged...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35016	We welcome the students and pupils of the "Ivana Lučića" secondary school from Trogir and the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, students and students. I'm sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35017	Yeah, you just had a significant thought, and so you interrupted me. However, in this way we will not even define who will deal with it, so we allow a poetic way of determining the activity, we will be able to cover up the activity, we will be able to define ourselves in a completely general way, and we have a classification of activities that are very important among other things and because of statistics, so that we can monitor macroeconomic developments and make better development plans in Croatia. This has a direct effect, both on statistics and on all other events. I'm surprised we're leaving this system that has so far shown good experience and has been no obstacle as an administrative barrier. Please vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35018	This amendment No 19 should be voted on. Please engage. Please vote. Score. Against Amendment 67, 3 abstentions, 36 for, therefore, did not get the required majority. 20. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35019	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35020	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 21st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35021	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35022	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 22nd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35023	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35024	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 23rd of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35025	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35026	It becomes an integral part of the law. 24th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35027	It's partially accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35028	24. becomes an integral part of the Law. 25th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35029	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35030	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 26th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35031	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35032	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 27th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35033	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35034	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And 28th of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35035	The same thing is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35036	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Thank you, Minister. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Court Register Act, please join. Please vote. Score. 75 for, 4 abstentions and 28 against, counterpart Arlovic did not pass. All right, if that is the case, I would like to conclude that, with this majority, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35037	We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading of P.Z. No. 197; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of this Act. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? He does. State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior Mr Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35038	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a very short one. Just as I said for the first time that the basic purpose of the amendment of this Act is to delete exit visas from the Law of Travel, since this is a relic of some past times and since Croatia is one of the few countries that had exit visas in their laws that regulate the issue of travel documents. Since the application of this Law does not require any additional means, we believe that this Law should be adopted in order to resolve one of the few relics of some of the former times when freedom of movement of Croatian citizens is also limited in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35039	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Josip Vresk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. I didn't really mean to take your word for it because for the first time as a club, we supported this law, so that's what we're going to do now. What the problem is, it seems to me that the government has solved it in this law. Indeed, we had this relic of the past called exit visas, which is one of the illogicalities that the law should have deleted. But there's actually one, one concern that we're going to have to change the same law soon again. Because of the constant increase in terrorism and the dangers of terrorism, most European countries are now thinking about changing travel documents and that some other than those identified in them are putting into travel documents, so it is thought of being a fingerprint and so on. This has gone so far that by the end of this year some of the European countries are likely to do so. What do you do in a case like this? It is evident that we too will have to follow such a practice as they estimate to be good. We won't be able to get away from it, and it looks like we're going to have to intervene again in this law. This is the final bill, and it might be good to think about it. It's hard to do something now, of course. The law is in the process, but I suggest that the Proposer see this and see the practice of European countries and do something about us. So once again, the HSLS Club will support this bill as it did in the reading process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35041	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Maronović. She's gone. No more reports. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give a final explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35042	Just a brief answer to Mr. Vresk. The MAP has already started working on these travel documents that will include biometric protection components, which is now a practice and trend in the world. But it's a rather demanding job that requires new equipment where travel papers will be made. But I say, since we are following trends in the world, this is about then trying to make a law in which all the most modern methods of protection of travel documents for these reasons that you have said, and this is one issue and at all the meetings of the Ministers of Interior and Justice in Europe, where it is precisely required that, because of the increasing mobility of people, as much protection as possible from illegal migration and from terrorism as possible. So there's going to be a new law, there's going to be new technology other than travel documents. We are already working on studying those technologies that are currently the most powerful in the world, which provide the most optimal protection. And as soon as a decision is made on a method that is best normal in accordance with experiences and other countries, we will certainly start and think and work on introducing and protecting travel documents. By making sure that citizens are not burdened with excessive costs. But as the passports run out, new ones are issued according to these most modern trends in the protection elements around travel documents. Here's the thing. I just wanted to answer that. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35043	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. He'll decide later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35044	Secondly, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Croatian citizens, second reading, P.Z. No. 197. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 106 votes for, one abstention, the proposed law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35045	We move to the 4th point of the agenda; - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of an additional protocol with a criminal convention on corruption, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 276; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when we set the agenda, we accepted the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. The amendments can be proud until the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. Whether or not the applicant's representative wants to know. Yeah. Ms. Secretary of State Snježana Bagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me just say a few words about the bill to confirm the additional protocol in the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. This Convention was ratified by the Republic of Croatia on 8 November 2000 and entered into force on 1 July 2002 in a return to the Republic of Croatia. It is now proposed to confirm the additional protocol with the convention drawn up in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003. And it should come into force in 1.2.2005. The Republic of Croatia signed that protocol on 17 September 2030, which was signed by 28 states and 17 ratified it so far. .. The purpose of this additional protocol is estimated to be indeed necessary and therefore to confirm this additional protocol to be entered into our internal legislation. [[the speaker doesn't understand]] The more it promotes the joint fight of all countries against corruption. I have to say that in relation to the crimes that it foresees, such as the bribery of domestic arbiters, passive bribery of domestic arbitarians, bribery of foreign arbiters, and so on. This will not require in our legislation amendments to legislation. Because our legislation, our criminal law is already in line not only with the convention but also with the additional protocol. But starting from the fact that international fight against corruption is also an extremely important international co-operation, we believe that this additional protocol should be signed by a team more than the Republic of Croatia and a member of the Greco Group of States to fight corruption, which, in their work plan and in its protocol, calls for this additional protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35047	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, Mr Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The Republic of Croatia, as regards the normative part of the adoption of international conventions, is doing quite well. So we're relatively early, given the way we've been late to join these kinds of conventions. The last few years have confirmed two Council of Europe conventions. And in that sense, I think the demand for this additional protocol makes sense, so a continuation of not one positive trend. But some other things, unfortunately, show that this is not so good, I will list only a few assessments that do not comply with the fact that the Republic of Croatia so relatively quickly accepts international documents. International conventions. Because actually some other things say I'm saying it's not exactly as it could be concluded from accepting these international documents. Which, of course, does not mean that it can be against the adoption of these documents, including, of course, this international protocol. In addition to the Criminal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe. The Republic of Croatia is also in this year's perception of the country's corruption index which, on the basis of perception, is not based on any objective indicators, but probably has been done in the right way, so the methodology of an experienced organisation has fallen again on the world scale of perception, corruption. So from 3.7 as much as the Republic of Croatia was in 2003, it fell to 3.5 in 2004. And this year, according to the perception index, Croatia fell for several more places among countries where corruption perception is therefore quite high. And so that index fell to 3.4 this year. These are things that are very serious, it is not only something that is a free assessment of Transparency International but is therefore one methodology that has existed for 20 years and by which all countries are placed in the right places. And in this sense, the Republic of Croatia unfortunately has nothing to look forward to. Bulgaria, for example, was with 4.0 ahead of the Republic of Croatia in 2004. And so last year, Croatia with 59 seats in the world, so these numbers, those indices translated into a ranking list, fell to 67th place by perception and corruption. The more you do that, of course, is the state up. And this year 2005, the situation is, unfortunately, even worse. Therefore, corruption in Croatia is not a problem that could be ignored. And that this is also the case with the documents on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. So in the European Commission's opinion, corruption is mentioned as one of the more serious problems facing our country on its way to the European Union. We, however, are relative to corruption and our obligations of relations quite casually, and corruption is an evil that devours a complete system, it does not endanger only individuals, even if it were and only that would be necessary for a reaction. Corruption gnaws the entire system of one state, corruption not only affects the state of morality, citizens' trust in state authorities, according to politics, according to the state administration, but corruption also negatively affects some quite real, objective processes such as the issue of the economic life of a country. Where there is a high level of corruption, it is hard to expect that you will have a large and solid flow of foreign investment. It is therefore a very, very serious problem and I must say that I am also concerned about our relationship with it, because the Croatian Parliament is one of the few Parliaments which actually deals with the issue of corruption quite slowly and quite insufficiently, i.e. it could be said unseriously. That's what our National Anti-Corruption Programme with the Action Plan adopted on 21 March 2002 is saying. Many of what is written in that programme stands, this programme is actually very good, but what is even worse, if it is a good program to realize this programme, which action plan, which is an integral part of that programme is actually very, very problematic and very slow to implement. That's how two institutions were formed with delays. It is the Public Procurement Office and the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I've been talking about it on behalf of the club about how it's actually forming these bodies, and the fact that their budget potential is going down every year, and it's about important bodies actually talking about our relationship to it not being serious enough. In this respect, the issue of the Parliamentary Commission to monitor the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme, which was to be established by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, was therefore to be based on the provisions of the National Programme. It has been more than 3 years, the National Programme was adopted on 21 March 2002, and the Croatian Parliament has not yet established the Commission for the implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. This says that the Croatian Parliament, and of course what I was saying earlier, says that other institutions are doing it, does not take it seriously enough to make it a very important issue. As if our index of corruption was constantly falling, i.e. it was becoming more favourable and more favourable, that moment unfortunately existed in the first years of this century, so there in 2000, 2001 and 2002, but in 2003 the index of corruption was becoming more unfavorable and unfavourable and this trend continued in our country and this year. Therefore, there is no reason to treat the conclusions adopted by this Croatian Parliament in a casual and irresponsible manner. In this regard, I also personally submitted a request, i.e. a proposal that, finally after 3 years of adoption, the programme was adopted and the obligation of the Croatian Parliament to establish a Committee for the Implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Programme. So these are all unfavourable trends, we accept documents, it seems to be a virtue, we adopt conventions relatively easily, we ratify them easily, and we don't actually do much to implement these conventions and the documents that we have brought ourselves, as is this National Programme. Apparently, as far as I'm aware, the government is preparing a new National Anti-Corruption Programme, probably with some new action plan, and we haven't actually realised in many elements an existing National Programme. And I say, I repeat, all this would be understandable if the corruption index, the citizens' sense of corruption in the country were constantly growing in the last few years, and I say it is made by a very prominent organisation called Transparens International, for a number of decades and unfortunately it is to be trusted. I therefore also call on the Croatian Parliament and the relevant ministries to pay more attention to the problem of corruption. We accept, of course, this protocol additionally and this Ratification Act, but we should finally have the documents we accept, which we ratify, and the same way that we bring ourselves to the Croatian Parliament to start respecting, because corruption is a growing and larger problem in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35049	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35050	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The IDS Club certainly supports every initiative and every proposal that will contribute to reducing corruption in Croatia, but in the last few months, the government has indeed decided to refer all possible laws and conventions concerning corruption and organised crime to the parliamentary procedure. We in the IDS certainly support this and that this area of corruption is brought into order as soon as possible, but we believe that this should not only be brought into order on paper but really in reality, and that it is going towards reducing corruption so that it is not really us as Croatia that we are not a negative example of how, not only in Europe but also in the world. Well, let's just remind ourselves a little bit. At the 11th month, we discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. After that, in the second month, we received the final proposal of the same law, which had the label P.Z.E. on it. In 189 that law was also in line with European legislation. Thirdly, we also discussed the United Nations Convention against Corruption. We now have before us a proposal for a bill to confirm an additional protocol with the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. It seems to me that perhaps too many documents and too few specific solved problems on the ground itself. I think that, regardless of all these legal regulations that are passed, citizens will take their own judgment on whether corruption is reduced in Croatia or not. We've heard from the indexes that no, that it's even harder to make a situation regardless of all these laws that we're making. Our citizens are corrupt everyday, and they meet all the time, whether they go to a doctor, whether they go to a location, by building permit, by the owner's list or something. The reality is that although we have all the laws and laws are similar to those in our neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria. But Austria should be an example to us and a model where corruption in the public administration is almost gone. We also heard that we have an action plan to fight corruption, but no one even mentions it anymore. In our opinion, we really need to develop consciousness and conscience and as a state to show that we really want to solve the problem of corruption. And as an example, there should certainly be state institutions that should punish corruption with their own example, not that they should be the ones most corrupt. If you're going to watch some newspaper articles then you'll really see what can happen to one of our citizens when he needs something. He says corruption is the most widespread among the officers. Then in public procurement. Perfect corruption destroyed 200,000 jobs. Corruption is a dangerous lifestyle. I'm really interested when we get a report from USKOK which, after that law was passed, when an office was formed in a way that reduced corruption. I really support every step forward of reducing corruption but we believe in the club that only such protocols and laws will not be resolved until the real state decides to deal with corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35051	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35052	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, honorary secretary of state! In fact, the proposal for a Law on Confirming an Additional Protocol under the Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption with the Final Proposal of the Law again proves that we are indeed a paradox country because of the fact that on the one hand we have a normative number of regulations that regulate this matter relatively and quality. Now we're getting a new regulation. And it would be legal to say that this is how satisfying the situation is in part of the normative regulation. But when we look at the implementation part, we know that the rating is zero or negative. Now we'll bring it back, so we'll confirm the additional protocol, and then especially at the HSP Club, it bothers us that it's said in the reasons for the law being passed by emergency procedure. He says one of the reasons is that the Republic of Croatia has shown at international level to contribute itself to the successful fight against corruption at international level and that is why we are now fighting corruption against what it says in the reasons for the adoption of an emergency procedure at international level. A very interesting legal qualification and a very interesting reason for passing laws by emergency procedure. Well, I guess first of all, we should fight to fight corruption, first of all, in our backyard, and then help out, because first we have to stop such corruption, and we know for ourselves wherever the daily paper opens or wherever the speeches are, we always come across corruption, whether it's about preventing conflicts of interest, whether it's about public procurement, whether it's about the involvement of officials in supervisory committees or something like that. public companies, even if this is about the Croatian Parliament when we pass laws and regulations, because many laws and regulations create a fertile soil for corruption. There was one case today, and we had this morning's debate about the court register where we actually want to enable those who don't pay their commitments to the state so that they can register a new firm and no one else. And then it's said that it was supposed to be done criminally. It was supposed to work, but no one ever did criminal justice, and now we're letting him sign up. Or other situations. Supervisory board members are ministers, state secretaries and they are now all proposing laws for the inspection to be with the same ministry. On the one hand, they are headed by supervisory committees, say the Croatian Forests or other public enterprises. On the other hand, there's an inspection that he's the boss again. And therefore, what kind of messages we send and how we fight corruption. We know ourselves that many of our officials and at the level of municipalities and cities have their own godmothers who get jobs quite cheaply or get no public procurement through direct contracts, and therefore we will again get another regulation, but we will not get to this day any large capital condemned by law because of corruption. I therefore propose to the Government that it first and foremost understand the confirmation of the additional protocol not as our contribution to the fight against corruption at international level. So fight corruption at home first and then help the world and not like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35053	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go. Zeljko Pavlic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35054	Dear Mr. Vice President! Let me also briefly refer to the debate on the adoption of this law, i.e. additional protocol with the Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption. A similar debate was in the Parliament several months ago and then we also warned and today it was already warned and it says in the material itself that Croatia legally covered everything about corruption, but the data tells us that corruption is actually growing from day to day, that everything is not actually in the declarations, that everything is not in the protocols, that everything is not in the laws, but that the problem is much wider. Already today, colleagues in the debate have warned about the harmfulness of corruption, which is safe. Although there has always been corruption in the modern state it becomes a danger because it damages the performance of social affairs. It lowers the necessary level of morality in political decision-making, blocks public administration, the judiciary, makes it ineffective. There are various calculations of corruption damage. The biggest damage, however, is that it distorts priorities in political and economic decision-making and destroys public responsibility and social morality. Here various specific data were presented, so the variables on how corruption is in Croatia, so I will try to do the same bit more clearly. Anyway, all that data is worrying. Assessments on the breadth of corruption suggest that corruption is the real problem of the Republic of Croatia. The first but unfortunately unreliable data is statistics of criminal acts. The statistics show that there are very few reported, accused and convicted persons for corruption crimes. A total of 3000 316 crimes were reported between 1992 and 1997. During that period, a thousand 408 indictments were filed and 570 persons were legally convicted. Therefore, there is a kind of filtering of corruption cases during the criminal proceedings, and only 17.2% of the cases reported end. This is the most interesting and unconditional prison sentence, so when that thing ends, the unconditional sentence of prison, which is intended only for the number of 13 cases or 0,0392%. In addition to the fact that this information may rest on caution as false reports may be made, he firstly warns that there is a discrepancy between public perceptions of the spread of the phenomenon and the public change of it. The study of public change in the Republic of Croatia shows, without exception, that the perceptions and views of respondents view corruption as widespread, considered very widespread 65.8, dilated 32.9 as more than 90% of all subjects, and that it was condemned from 54% to 82%. So that's what the public thinks about perception. So there are other variables we've heard today. So, we heard the same about that according to transparency research... Croatia has receded to a scale of corruption perception index, which is why it published annually, which means it is the impression that corruption has increased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Index for Croatian Annual Research, i.e. for 2004 is 3.5 while last year's survey was 3.7. So, the backside was noticed. Croatia shares 67th place with Peru, Poland and Sri Lanka. The survey covers 146 countries, so most of the countries that exist most so far. The passing score is 5, the best 10 and the worst 0, so we got 3.5 of it all together. I don't think that's an encouraging grade. It is a slightly better assessment of EBERD, which notes with its report that corruption in the Republic of Croatia is a serious problem, but it is estimated to be lower than in other transition countries. World Bank surveys show that the Republic of Croatia belongs to a middle group of transition countries according to polls conducted at the end of 1999. Data point to a relatively low overall index, particularly administratively low corruption but high corruption at the level of political decision-making and justice. I think we can all agree that this is a very sensitive and important area. The survey also warns of weak social and political responsibility, which is in itself both a sign and a condition of corruption but the existence of strong social groups ready to halt social reforms. In addition to all the restrictions on the method of research, this is certainly a sign of the bad reputation of the Republic of Croatia and of the picture that needs to be changed. The fact that corruption in the Republic of Croatia is not precisely quantifiable, does not diminish the knowledge that it interferes with business and that the perception of its frequency is rejected by foreign investors and Croatian entrepreneurs. Moreover, any relativisation is very harmful because it creates a possible alibi for the lack of political determination and implementation of measures. In addition, whether it is inherited or created, whether it is a moral erosion or one who bears greater guilt, it is already important that it is against corruption. The success of fighting corruption depends on a greater number of factors, so it is not enough just to pass the laws of which, in my opinion, is the most important political will and determination. In the Republic of Croatia, not only in the public's view, but also as a pre-election promise and a general obligation of major political parties, movements and associations, there are assumptions of a general consensus on the need to combat corruption. There are assumptions of creating a coalition of political entities to fight corruption. The political obligation is therefore not an ordinary declaration... or should not be, it is a clear political obligation and responsibility to voters and citizens and what it should be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, political reforms are the real reason for the anti-corruption action. Changes in the political system, highly legitimate government, openness to reforms, and changes in the economic system, overcoming ethical logic, redistribution and fostering foreign investment markets. Finally, a strategic orientation towards European integration is an incentive to fight corruption, just as success in countering corruption is a prerequisite for achieving such goals. So for these reasons, I support this Law and I hope that it will at least contribute to the fight against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35055	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35056	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to begin my presentation on this confirmation of an additional protocol with the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption in one sentence. There's a saying that in a thieving state, the most respected citizens are the greatest thieves. I don't know why, but it reminds me more and more of this Homeland of mine, because public perception in the fight against corruption we know what kind of citizens think we're doing nothing in this field. And not only is the perception of the public but the index of corruption every year shows that we are getting worse and worse in that field. We adopted a civil legal convention in the fight against corruption, criminal law, today, and an additional protocol on criminal law conventions, and what did we actually do in the fight against corruption? Almost nothing! And the proof that we've done almost nothing is today that 30 non-government associations, today, is starting an anti-corruption coalition. It is founded because the system institutions are not functioning, do not do their job and believe that through non-government associations it will help to put an end to the evil called corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35057	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Agent Ante Markov, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35058	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Of course, it is very important, very important to always talk about this topic and try to publicly establish those norms in society that are important to be institutionally on solutions that exist and implement, that action plans are implemented and that the fundamental task is achieved, which is the functioning of the rule of law in its entirety. Corruption is a monster, an old monster that, of course, has not been created since today, but is located in the very beginnings of all organized societies. Or it was created as a result of the conflict and the knowledge that an individual is trying in some way to oppose the rules of the general society, that is, the law. Of course, there are a whole series of conventions, a whole series of laws that aim to establish uniform criteria in the fight against corruption, that as much as possible, that as they try to remove it from the legal framework in one society, to stop it but also to discuss the causes of these negative weeks. The causes vary from country to country, they depend on local environment, historical opportunities, administrative tradition, but also on the political development of a society. Of course, transition countries, countries to which Croatia belongs, and of course, Croatia have their own special features. It would be completely wrong not to notice that at the time of the communist regime that corruption existed, it had its other forms of action, manifested itself differently to the common interest of society but existed unquestionably. Another specificity that arises in almost all transition countries is the fact that by adopting a number of new laws, regulations, and all in some way this is an opportunity to legalize injustice, for bad laws that actually favour corruption, they encourage it and give it a legal basis. It's also one of the hardest parts. Third, privatisation and denationalisation were also an exceptional opportunity for all sorts of predators to make money and to come through legal or other frameworks to take something that did not belong to them. As a result, the fight against corruption is absolutely important, necessary and important within the Croatian rule of law, and thus by establishing such a legal order we will contribute to a wider level, at the level of the world community to fight against these monsters as high as possible, but it must always start from countries, but it must always start from countries, from society and tasks, above all, and within the framework of this Convention, as well as through all accompanying laws, sublegal acts and institutions of this society to fight corruption and all forms of threat to the legal system here in Croatia, and thus clearly that, if the positive effects and the struggles contribute to that and to the global level, those frameworks which are also proposed by this Protocol, the Convention on Corruption will be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35059	Thank you. Does the motionor's representative want to... This concludes the debate on this agenda point. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35060	Third, Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol under the Criminal Convention on Corruption, P.Z. No. 276. The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. The Minister of Justice shall accept the proposed amendment of the Committee. It becomes an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that, with 111 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed Convention was adopted, i.e. the Law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together for the Amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35061	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal for a law on the validation of amendments and additions to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 277; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure. In the adoption of this Act, you received the proposal in boxes pursuant to Article 159. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, on Internal Policy and National Security, on the Justice and Committee on the Constitution, on the Rules of Procedure and on the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Snježana Bagic, State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35062	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is another international document that is proposed to be adopted. Certainly not reducing the need and necessity of combating all forms of crime, especially organised crime and corruption, as well as terrorism in the first place on the national agenda, and then certainly on the international agenda. Because more than once this speaker has been told, and that's said in the previous debate. The fight against these modern forms of crime, such as corruption and terrorism, is something that is important to our system, both internally and internationally, and the Republic of Croatia must give the answer, and not only by adopting legislation, either by confirming international conventions or by adopting our laws and regulations, but also by successfully combating such phenomenal forms. But as far as terrorism is concerned, the Republic of Croatia ratified the Convention on Terrorism in 2003, January 15, and that convention came into force on 16 April 2003. It is now proposed to ratify the protocol on amendments and additions to the European Convention signed by the Republic of Croatia on 17 September 2003. The purpose and purpose of this Convention is, of course, to prepare the states again because this international act is a common more successful fight against terrorism which, if we can say so, is not as present in Croatia as in some other countries, however, needs to be prepared in a timely manner and prevent such emerging forms and, of course, contribute to the international fight against it. This Protocol provides for a series of acts that should either be prescribed or applied in internal legislation. In Croatia, this, as the previous Convention did not require amendments to legislation, because it is already harmonised, however, is a fact that the Republic of Croatia and the member of the Council of Europe and the member of the European Committee on Crime Problems and members of the Anti-Terrorist Coalition, which is more the reason why it is indeed ratified and this Protocol in order to in some way round this international legal framework in this area and in order for the Republic of Croatia together with other countries to contribute to this area which, in a broader sense, represents something that all countries today are really burdening and that not only on the internal agenda but also on the international agenda, they must cooperate and take measures to resist and not only punish it but also prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35063	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35064	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Terrorism is unfortunately one of the greatest security threats to the modern world. Unfortunately, we had the opportunity to see in no small tragedies in Washington, New York, Madrid and so on. All of this therefore requires as much quality and integrity as possible to organise the entire international community as possible, as well as to each country's individuality. Opposing terrorism in every respect how that political, legal, security, military, financial is one of the most important tasks, and therefore this proposal for a law confirming the amendments and additions to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism today in the Croatian Parliament deserves my attention. The Republic of Croatia is facing ratification of many international agreements in order to prevent what the popular and proactive fight against terrorism says today, i.e. a struggle to prevent terrorism in its earliest stages of occurrence. For this reason, the role of international legislation in addition to existing international organisations dedicated to this task is extremely important. The first European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism was drawn up in Strasbourg in 1977. The Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism was also drawn up in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003 since it opened for signing. The Republic of Croatia signed the protocol on 17 September 2003. To date, the protocol has been signed by forty-one, one state, and ten states have ratified it. The purpose of the Protocol is to strengthen the common capacity, but also the individual capabilities of the parties in the fight against terrorism in such a way as to amend and supplement certain aspects of the Convention by confirming the Protocol. The Protocol shall adopt certain amendments and additions to the Convention, of which the most important extension of the offences covered by the Convention, to acts under certain other specialised conventions and protocols. Expansion of the penalties of liability especially on attempt, participation, incentive. including those acts in criminal sanctions. What is seen from this prevention becomes an extremely important means in the fight against terrorism. The Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia provides for specific provisions for an attempt, in particular, to highlight the importance of attempting to commit a criminal offence by participating in criminal acts, and to encourage a criminal offence by also referring to the criminal act of international terrorism. This Regulation shall enter into Penal Code sanctioned association for committing the crime of international terrorism, preparing the crime of international terrorism and subsequent assistance to the perpetrator of the international terrorist crime. From all this to conclude, as stated here in relation to Croatian legislation, this protocol will not require the addition of the penal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in order to prevent the fight against terrorism at international level and the concrete contribution of the Republic of Croatia, we consider it necessary to ratify this Protocol. It should also be pointed out that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the Anti-Terrorist Coalition founded on the basis of a Security Council resolution. It is important for Croatia to monitor systematically all activities of the European Union and Member States in the field of combating terrorism in particular with regard to the development and creation of effective, European, criminal legislation aimed at these amendments and additions in the area of prevention. This Protocol is one of the major mechanisms for achieving effective cooperation between the European Union states in improving the fight against terrorism. It should certainly highlight certain provisions and articles in which the key words of preventive character are highlighted in relation to the existing Protocol. So here is Article 1 in particular, points out the criminal provisions apply not only to the committing of the main crimes but also to the attempt to commit any of these main crimes. It means extending the sentence of responsibility, to try and not just to do it, so to encourage it. In particular, Article 1 reiterates the attempt to further encourage other persons in Article 2 of the Convention to re-engage these amendments with the attempt to commit any of the above-mentioned offences. Participation in the initiation of any of the offences mentioned above, and so on. And this whole protocol is kind of characterized by just these prevention measures. New proactive struggles in the legal mechanisms in the fight against terrorism. It is clear from all of this that the HDZ Club will support this protocol, which should mark a contribution to a more effective fight against terrorism on a wider international stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35065	Thank you. On behalf of the club HSP, the esteemed representative Pero Kovačević.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35066	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The HSP Club will support the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the control of terrorism with the final proposal for a law. In this proposal of the law, we also support the goal. The goal is for Croatia to make its contribution at international level to combat terrorism. It is the correct conclusion of the secretary of state that terrorism and corruption go together. In the case of terrorism, however, we have a slightly better situation than with corruption, and that is why we support this goal. Because terrorism can come to us first and foremost from the international level. But in order for us to fight terrorism successfully and effectively, we must take other appropriate measures, above all, are important measures to address the situation within the Ministry of the Interior. And you have witnessed yourself in the last month, two days as all situations occur, that the number of crimes is both murder and family crime and all others are on the rise. YES, on the other hand, it's about perpetrators who are multiple returnees. That means the judiciary isn't working. You yourself could see the contributions that it was about the people of one they said had already committed 300 crimes as part of the same crimes they committed. Which speaks enough about the lack of good and effective cooperation, above all, between the Ministry of the Interior and the State's Attorney's Office. And on the other hand, about sanctioning the court. So if we don't solve it, that means the Ministry of the Interior. So the Ministry must be humane, teamed up and in a manner of expertise not similar. And it must be equipped and dressed. All these things are now pretty bad at the Home Office level. And that is why we propose to the Government that appropriate measures be taken in this section. But it's not enough just saying to team up the Home Office to equip him, train him, solve the issue of working legal status and everything else. Which is a lot of problems. It is necessary to put into office and the state's attorney's office, and the judicial system. Because that way we will contribute to the application and implementation of this Convention. And enable and arrange and operate the rule of law. Because this trend, if we keep coming into a rather awkward situation, that people will be afraid, security will be at a lower level, people will be afraid to get on the road at all. Therefore, we appeal to the government to take urgent action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35067	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the HSS Club the esteemed representative Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Gentlemen of the Proposers, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as Col. Cosic said, this is a very serious and important topic that in many ways in recent years, somehow ranks, defines, affects the overall social, economic and life of the whole world. Of course, as part of the world, Croatia has its own interests, has its strategic tasks, and has its own views and has its advantages thank God when we talk about this threat such as terrorism and it is the most extreme threat of both society and individual and human. And thanks to a good local and relatively good regional environment, Croatia is in the context of this threat in a very positive sense located. And the overall social movement, and respecting the fact that there is no internal danger of terrorism in Croatia. We must, of course, commit ourselves to protecting ourselves in that external position, so that that threat doesn't come from outside. It's either from a wider or narrow environment. Of course, what determines in some way the systems that act in the success or failure of the fight against all kinds of threats, and terrorism we have said is one of the most extreme are certain pillars of society. Those who, in the context of their legal importance, determine and put into effect the seriousness of a single society to face all kinds of patterns that violate the legal system. Of course, when we speak to Croatia, it is not good for one of these important pillars in the past few years, which is the security pillar of a society to collapse. That certain wars can, of course, be characterized as political through it or within it. But in any case, they're harmful. They're harmful to the security system. They're harmful to hardworking people who do that job. But they are harmful because ultimately they can give space to all those who want and want to act wrongly. Therefore, the most important basis of a single society is certainly that the security system must not be exposed and should be separated from each policy as soon as possible and as strongly as possible. It represents a very important component that has also been put into effect in the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism but also in all acts adopted since 1977 as a pyramid that needs to be combined with the overall legal system of a society. As a result, it is very necessary to let security services do their job that belongs to them by law and by the Constitution as soon as possible. It is clear in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law and that the fullness of their content is affirmable for this society and not that, for these or those reasons, it is constantly speculated and brought into a specific position which is neither good for the company nor for the security services. Also, the second pillar that acts more directly in terms of eliminating all illegal causes and consequences, of course, is the interior ministry's police system, primarily police. Of course, the state of the police system is not good. We have to say that people who are valuable and hard and even for relatively low wages do their very risky tasks. Very often they are left without elementary working conditions, without being able to do something timely and want to do it. Therefore, this is also an opportunity to allocate more resources to the functioning of the police in the next budget, taking into account certain projects such as community police. The important thing is that it is not just left on paper, but really to help make this system fully resuscitated and able to behave its functions. Because only the declarative adoption and validation of conventions, the indication of those institutions that are responsible for the implementation and protection of both citizens and society and state is not sufficient. I, above all, appeal on behalf of the HSS Club to the full depolitisation of these security pillars in our society that should be built, which should be given an opportunity and which should be given adequate means for their work, but only behave clearly within the framework of the Constitution and the law applicable in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35069	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35070	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representatives of the government and the distinguished gentlemen of the council. I really didn't mean to talk about this final proposal to confirm the amendments and additions to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism because it is a clean matter. However, a few discussions simply prompted me to say that this is the point I report to. It seems to me that Mr Kovacevic has claimed that terrorism in the Republic of Croatia does not come from within but from the outside. That's what he said, literally from word to word. However, I argue that this terrorism is when Croatia is there between us and it comes right from this country or from these areas. He would even dare to say that when he is in action in some way with the presiums of politics, the Ministry of Interior, some other elements of the Croatian Army, etc. who don't behave these functions today. Just look at the destruction of the gentlemen of the Partisan monuments that is happening again on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. To this day, three thousand were destroyed and no one had anything to do with it. It's a classic form of terrorism. Yesterday it happened on Murter. A little while ago, Mr. Marco told me that three Partisan monuments had been torn down in the area of his county in the last two, three months. Four, five months ago, around Christmas, it happened in Kumrovec. Two years ago, a tomb of folk heroes was destroyed. By the end of 99, as many as 3,000 such monuments were destroyed. And no one can convince me that on Wednesdays when it happens, it's not the system. As it has also been silently tolerated since then's official policy in the early 1990s when this misdemeanor took place. I think it's very good that the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader, has agreed to speak 14. 4, so next month in Jasenovac. But what is it that this behavior, better said by the destruction of these Partisan monuments, is being achieved? Apparently, he wants to destabilise the country from the inside. What's different than the classic form of terrorism when there's the destruction of the Murter monument in a few hours shows on its impact pages between the other and the CCN. The question then arises whether it helps our economy, whether such behaviour pleases our tourism. Certainly not. And that's why in this country, gentlemen, someone has to react and the boot needs to stand by the neck of those who thus play with our not only safety but also the economic future of this country. In Croatia, you will probably all agree with me, so far only one thing could have been done unhindered. It's to tear down partisan monuments. You could have knocked them down as much as you wanted, nothing happened to anyone until today. It is suspected that anyone will be found out about this act in Murter, the one in Kumrovec, as until today no one has been discovered or sanctioned for the destruction of the tomb of folk heroes in Zagreb. I think the perpetrators of such behavior somehow send us all who are in the structures of the government in the right sense of that word, I won't say war, but they're sending a clear message and I think it's time to react to it. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been in place, on this point, doing nothing, and I'm afraid that unless there is one reorganization of the same, that simply such behaviours will in the future be only more certainly no less. What is certainly good for Croatia to lead one right, I would say politics towards Arab countries mainly when war is on Wednesday. I don't think the Arabs are terrorists that we understand each other right away, we lead a good policy to our neighbours, and above all I mean Bosnia and Herzegovina, I mean Serbia and some other countries. But what is now 100% necessary, we need security. Without certainty, anarchy, chaos, then economic breakdown itself, and I believe that this country does not need it. One more time, I'm gonna touch what I already said. The Ministry of the Interior at this time is unfortunately not at the level of the task. Did all these shifts that were happening in their ranks, the non-professionals who led him to it today contribute to it among other things, in some other debate, but the fact is that this situation is frightening and needs to be adequately answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35071	Thank you. Mr. Cain, it's not good to associate terrorism with certain ministries. I have to react to this, as if the Prime Minister had agreed, as if someone had forced him to speak in Jasenovac. I would like to remind you that both the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister have honored the victims of the Jasenovac. Nor is it, unsolved cases related only to the monuments of the People's Liberation War. Let's think of 12 broken cypresses in Bor's village. Also, no investigation has been completed, nor has the perpetrator been found, as well as a mine in the discovery of monuments to Croatian defenders in Vukovar-Srijem County. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35072	Yes, Mr. Vice President and I will join those who are correcting the wrong allegations, and it is quite incorrect that the police did not establish anything in the destruction of the monuments, so it is publicly announced and known that the monument to the Partisans of Mirogoje destroyed foreign intelligence services with helpers in Croatia who wanted to destabilise Croatia again and prove what Croatia did not. So it's not genocide, it's not xenophobic, it's not anti-fascist, it's quite the opposite. So you know exactly who and why he destroyed the Partisan monuments at least in Mirogoje in the middle of Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35073	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The word has a distinguished representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35074	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are now whether or not we have two points on the agenda, one after the other with two major problems and issues facing the modern world is corruption and terrorism. So far, many have said, so I will mention, that terrorism is, in fact, one of the greatest dangers of the modern world. Many agree with both individuals and experts, including the authorities themselves, etc. The countries and governments of the countries concerned are often said to target terrorists and terrorists, then they are often in agreement to fight terrorism effectively. However, when it comes to identifying the causes leading to terrorism, there are often disagreements and considerations. This point today, which we are discussing, means the proposal for a bill to confirm the amendments and additions to the European Convention on the Prevention of Terrors, means another actual document which Croatia will hope to adopt, and thus once again swear to a more effective fight against terrorism. As a member of the anti-terrorist coalition, Croatia has long accepted these obligations and in its legislation from day to day, so we are installing some new obligations, but the problem is all of us that these obligations that have been translated into legal regulations, how to translate them into practice, how to effectively oppose the evil that surrounds us. Furthermore, the main reason why Croatia should actually be, when we are on the inside plan to fight terrorism and the call of terrorism that could arise in some way on our territory, and what this Convention offers us is actually one rule of play here, to determine how if terrorism spills over to our territory, or from our transition to another area of another country, we actually accept our obligations in its effective prevention. As terrorists and various terrorist organisations connect cross-borderly, it is normal for countries to connect with each other and make a defence plan against terrorism itself. The terrorism I said at the beginning, is saying one of the contemporary evils. But I'd like to see him briefly in the community with corruption. Corruption and terrorism are two evils of the modern world that often go hand in hand together. Corruption and terrorism often support and support each other. Corruption promotes terrorism, and terrorism protects, defends, and develops corruption as a specific social relationship, almost in all spheres, especially where it is necessary that terrorism can come into action to create in some way a soft ground on which it will easily descend and act. For example, societies and states that are thick with corruption are often the target and victim of terrorism itself, so we also need to lead these discussions in the Croatian Parliament, so we also need to send these messages to the Croatian public because we are all invited as citizens to fight corruption and against terrorism. He mentioned a sentence here just before, with which I did not have a stick up in time, so let me apply to the correction of the incorrect quote, but he mentioned Croatia in some way let's suggest that Croatia would be one kind, one state, one thieving state. I agree with that finding, or with some of his intentions that he wanted to say, I disagree. In Croatia, there are indeed thieves, there are thieves who supported authorities and people with tolerance. They made it possible for thieves to co-exist in our community, in our society. Many have also been able to become prominent citizens, but it does not reduce our obligation to fight against all these evils effectively. Here's the end, here's my colleague Caine mentioned what happened in Murter. We in Croatia unfortunately have two acts for the two greatest Christian holidays, for two Christian holidays. At Christmas we had a ritual dynamite cut off the head of Augustinčić's monument in Kumrovec and now we have a ritual memory, a cutoff for Easter legs to the monument of antifascists in Murter. I am that we all have to have fun over this and why this is happening at the time of Christian holidays. I think that these and those people who organised it are neither Christians nor patriots nor peacemakers nor Democrats, and that is why it is necessary and when we are discussing and supporting this kind of convention in some way do a kind of examination of our own personal and social conscience to see where we are. We will strengthen credibility that these elements that are being built into Croatian legislation on the fight against corruption, will in practice be confirmed effectively if we solve such cases in our midst and therefore the Ministry and Home Affairs and all the competent state authorities are obliged to really shed light on it, to see who is clouding our Easter and Christmas holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35075	Thank you. This concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35076	Fourthly, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the European Convention on the control of terrorism, P.Z. No. 277. The debate on the text is over. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that it is unanimous with 113 votes for the passed Act on the confirmation of the proposed Protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35077	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, with a final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 281 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the Rules of Procedure, an emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary, Professor Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35078	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs. I will give brief clarifications on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. The basic reason why we have approached the amendments and additions of this law is the fact that participants in the process of privatisation of land and generally available through leases and concessions, here above all I think of units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities, their councils and their chieftainships, have not in many cases taken responsibility for the implementation of this process, so the responsibility that the law has been assigned and we hold that it has seriously merged, and in some areas and has completely stopped the processes of agricultural land from being available with all the consequences. The availability of agricultural land unfortunately has become largely the narrow throat of the development of agriculture. The most ambitious operational projects of this government, from the operational programme of raising permanent plantation, from the operational programme of developing bovine production, pigmeat production, the irrigation project, therefore, which plays an important role in changing the structure of agricultural production, also play an important role in increasing the production of those products in which we are not self-sufficient and which record the long-term deficit of external trade. Therefore, all these operational programmes, if no change of law would occur, would be questioned. Some municipalities and cities did not take advantage of the opportunity to be co-creators of agricultural policy in accordance with the law. Unfortunately, the good intention of the 2001 law to decentralise agricultural land and to take responsibility for the process mostly for local self-government. So that level of government that knows best the situation on the ground, which best knows its manufacturers, simply in implementing the machine, and we keep it partly due to the incompetence of individual local authorities to prepare the programmes and prepare the documentation. But on the other hand, and because of the intentional obstruction of individual participants. To this end, the availability of agricultural land has started to be used for daily policy purposes, day-to-day policy accounts. We have a situation where some commissioners even replaced the Institute of Public Competition by drawing names from hats, etc. I'd like to back that up. From 540 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, 340 municipalities and cities have submitted programmes to the agricultural land of the Ministry of Agriculture for consent. 64 provided evidence that they had no agricultural land owned by the state and 136 municipalities and cities had not delivered the programme at all. Of the 340 programmes submitted to the ministry, the consent was given to 267, so somewhere for cca 500 thousand hectares, and 73 remaining municipalities and the city did not get the consent because their programmes do not contain all the necessary documentation or do not comply with the country-owned agricultural land available strategy. Therefore, it is clear that these data indicate the necessity of amending the law. The main goal we want to achieve in this law is to ensure its flow, therefore, to speed up privatisation, i.e. the sale of agricultural land. To speed up other forms of availability, therefore, lease and concession because it is also an interest of our agricultural producers, as well as of our agricultural policies as a whole. I will not specifically elaborate on which strategic and national importance it is that agricultural land should be purchased by our producers, that our producers should enter the system and concessions and leases, therefore, long-term forms of availability. And we kept an account of it and in the Law itself to create assumptions that those who are now in possession or in possession of it, therefore, in this system of availability, that even in the next competitions, therefore, which will be conducted in 10, 20, 30, 40 years, they will have a priority again. It's also not just this law but all those activities that need to be initiated and that we're going to do with our soil office. They include changing other sublegal regulations because we must protect the land, agricultural land as a natural treasure. In the Republic of Croatia, it is fortunately still neither polluted nor destroyed, nor exhausted as it is in most countries, the most advanced countries of the European Union. As far as the procedure itself is concerned, this bill has been brought into line with all the associations of producers, so we discussed it thoroughly, thoroughly aligned. Also, at the request of the Committee on Agriculture and before this standard procedure, we discussed the draft law on the Committee on Agriculture itself and agreed. As for the alterations and additions themselves, I'll make a more detailed point. If, within 2 months of the entry into force of this Act, the municipal or city council does not adopt a programme or does not call for a lease, or sell the programme on which the Ministry has given its consent, the programme will adopt, or the competition will be carried out by the County’s County Headship on a proposal from the Committee appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. It is also prescribed that municipalities and cities can limit the maximum area to be leased to natural or legal persons, which we hold to enable better distribution. Furthermore, if the highest price offered in the lease or concession tender exceeds the double amount of the initial price established by the Tax Administration, such an offer will be considered invalid. We also felt that it was necessary to define and regulate more precisely that in the order of the championship the family farms that are listed in the Register of Income Taxes and those family economies whose agriculture is a basic activity. And that's where we evened out the agricultural crafts. Also, if more persons are in the same order of the right of the championship, additional criteria are provided, and here we want to stress intensive agricultural production. Therefore, additional criteria include livestock production, the rise of multi-annual plantations, vegetable production. The lease also provides for the economic programme to form an integral part of the contract and, if that economic programme is not implemented, the contract is terminated. Furthermore, additional criteria for obtaining a concession have been established. In fact, we had a lot of problems in the field because simply because of the non-limiting of the maximum price, and the lack of clear criteria for selecting bidders we had a situation that literally paratroopers with high prices that had nothing to do with economic logic had to do with such competitions. And we have also built into the Law that if the land together with the existing farm and with the existing production makes it a technological whole, that such a potential, therefore, the bidder has an advantage over the others. A concession for fisheries is also proposed which has not been on time from 20 to 40 years, primarily on demand and on the basis of data from the field of our freshwater fishing producers. And in the end, I just want to do it again. So this Law intends to ensure its flow, its speedy implementation, therefore, faster privatisation, faster availability, leases and concessions. And also minimise that obstruction that occurred in the implementation of this Law because we consider this Law on Land and that its implementation is a fundamental assumption for the development of agriculture, especially those of high income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35079	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Željko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35080	Thank you very much. I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that municipalities and cities are obstructing the implementation of the program, because here we actually see that 340 municipalities and cities have brought the program. However, there is another problem. YES, those municipalities that have brought in the program cannot open tenders or that some cannot obtain the consent of the Ministry. So the problem is completely on the other side, of them 340 and 5% failed to achieve the programme so that the vast majority of municipalities just want to implement the programme, however, the problem is somewhere else, so I recommend the Ministry of Agriculture that it also "does not obstruct" those who in time brought the programme and applied for the opening of competitions and the documentation was fully delivered to the Ministry but there is no agreement for months.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35081	Thank you. Will you be on behalf of the Club or the Committee? On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35082	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land at its 20th session on 29 March. That draft law was discussed by the Committee in the capacity of the home working body and held a discussion on the subject at the the thematic session held on 8 March 2005. Following the opening statement by the applicant's representative, the Committee supported by a majority of votes the proposal from the applicant to adopt that law by an urgent procedure. The members of the Committee are familiar with the opinion delivered by the Croatian Chamber of crafts on the proposed law. In the overall debate in which representatives of professional associations also participated, the Committee assessed that the amendments and additions to that Law should be made for a more effective purpose of making agricultural land available in the possession of the State. However, the opinion that the proposed Law only partially solves this problem was also given and a new full Agricultural Land Act should be adopted. It was also warned that the biggest problem at stake in agricultural land is the unsettled situation in Gruntovnica and Catastra. The debate noted that special attention should be paid to making it impossible to sell agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons through shares in companies and combinations. It is proposed to value the quality of economic programmes that must be attached by legal and natural persons in determining the primary right of purchase and lease. The question has been raised about the justification for municipalities and cities to limit their programmes to agricultural land owned by the state. It is also proposed that, for the purpose of encouraging the development of family agricultural holdings in the Law, it would be good to allow for a kind of automation for the same, that they do not have to enter again after the lease. Some members of the Committee hold questionable opportunities and professional training of the administrative authorities of some municipalities in carrying out the professional operations of agricultural land sales procedures, and the setting up of land deployment committees. Further discussion supports the provision for the award of concessions for aquaculture, but it has been warned that the time at which the concession is given must be brought into line with the provisions of the Water Act. Some members of the Committee have warned that the functioning of the rule of law provides for mechanisms for the implementation of judicial judgments, judicial decisions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and therefore there is no need in this law to express what is stated in the added provision of Article 54c. Since agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia has its special protection proposed to submit well to the Croatian Assembly for the purpose of meeting representatives an annual report on the state of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. ...with that proposal and agreed. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament voted by a majority of 8 votes in favour, 1 vote against it decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35083	Thank you. You can continue on behalf of the club. On behalf of the Club, distinguished representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35084	Thank you very much again, so let me say a few sentences on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Perhaps, in the introduction, remind me of some information that I think is extremely important for this overall debate of ours. The Republic of Croatia with 0.65 hectares of agricultural land, i.e. 0.45 hectares of farm land per capita enters that group of countries that are relatively rich in agricultural land. The total area of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is 3 million 155,000 and 690 hectares. State-owned data from 2001 that we now have data that have changed in a certain way amounted to a million 66,000 and 437 hectares, and of which there were 310 thousand hectares of farmland. Which is why I say the data is different now. So for this reason, when this Law was passed in 2000, data was processed somewhere in the possession of the state that will be processed, which will be given in concessions, leases or sales of around 350 thousand hectares. I have to say now the secretary of state here mentioned that in 2005, this information is somewhere, the circus, according to the latest data from all these 340 municipalities and cities, but those who still need to deliver their programs, we can freely say that it will be over 500 thousand hectares. Anyway, it says it's basic law, because that's what I want to say a few sentences that were passed for 2,000 years, and I'd say one way to go. Not to repeat myself then, which is set out in this law, I must stress that unfortunately I have listened to myself in the last year and a half and especially before the last elections of the great criticism of this Law, as a law that has not done what it should have done. However, the law as a law as it is written, evidently, and according to what we have heard here today in this proposal of amendments that are not going in some significant strategic improvements. We stayed and determined what was found in 2000, which is in any case to decentralisation the decision to give towards municipalities and cities, to give priority to family farms, to define certain things that I think are and then defined in that part. What's the problem? The problem is implementation, and here in these proposals it is going to improve this implementation, which is the basic goal of perhaps re-emphasizing the law itself, the strategy itself was in 2000. I believe that it has remained until today. The main objective is to change the current agricultural structure with the ownership model of agricultural economies, first I would say depreciated. We know when we talk about agricultural production, when we talk about land, we come up with the most basic problem, and that's our farmed economy. They've been tarnished for reasons I'd say the distant past, but in today's competition in today's market, they're extremely difficult to exist and have extremely big problems. When we did a certain analysis of all those agricultural holdings that are in the register, we came up with some better data that says that of them there are 139 thousand that are in the register somewhere an average size of about 5 hectares. We know that these 5 hectares still do not satisfy and that by the time we enter the European Union, I would say to the total globalisation that we must increase these family economies, this was the purpose and purpose of the law, and in many places it is very clear, decidently put in order to give priority to family farms in the leases. I still have to mention here for those who forgot that by 2000 this matter of agricultural land was regulated by nearly 5.6 laws. The Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Defence, the Law on Islands and in various places has been fundamental, I would say land policy policy in the agrarian from which it all goes, I think we hit the groundwork in 2000 to change these things. What must be ensured by land policy with this Law? In any case, it is necessary to secure the market for agricultural land. I think the main goal is to make that market work. We had here and we have in this proposal to make certain changes in a certain area, relative to a certain part when we have free to say a certain stalemate at the level of municipalities and cities, when we have problems to solve these problems is approached in a way that after 60 days when a programme of availability at the level of municipalities and cities takes over the county. I think that's to say hello and that, in any case, if we don't speed up the resolution of the county taking over that part of the job, then, in any case, in those municipalities and cities, where there has been no such criterion, they will certainly help make it a certain acceleration. But in order to create another market, I don't think this is just enough. We need to know that in Croatia other than these million and cca 200 thousand hectares of state agricultural land, we have almost a million and 800 thousand hectares of private agricultural land. We need to think that we need to speed up the market here and that if we are to achieve that ultimate goal, which is to round up the family holding that we will not be able to just do so with state agricultural land, but this second part must be included. But in order for all of this to work out, we're starting with the most basic problem, I've emphasized it many times before. The biggest problem in the overall consolidation of land policy is the safe resolution of property-legal relations on land. And it's primarily granite and cadastre. In order to achieve this common policy, it is necessary to establish an integrated system, cadastrian notes and land books to clarify ownership and ownership relations. It is necessary to establish a central register in the register of these notifications and to improve the efficiency of the agricultural land management and procedures. It's all a prerequisite for the functioning of the market. That's what more work is needed to do than it's ever been done. For example, I will just point out that in the last two, three years, all of these are witnesses, done in the catastrophe and grantovna almost as it is in the back of 10, 15 or 20 years. The municipalities and cities are fast and fast, although I will side with municipalities and cities, with insufficient resources, because we need to know that some of the measurements in some municipalities are also several million kunas, and they are a prerequisite to bring the agricultural land management programme to work out, in some ways they are in charge, calculating that if they have enough state-owned agricultural land to get that part of the money from the sale, but in any case, to sort out their land books and grants on them. However, when we talk about this overall problem, we cannot mention that without certain financial infrastructure it is possible to make a more important step. The financial infrastructure I primarily think is to solve and improve this market that I'm talking about is necessary. We know in what state our family’s peasant economies are, primarily, what kind of economic and financial aid they are. And if we don't meet them to improve that financial situation in that area when it comes to land, they'll certainly have a hard time buying and fulfilling the goal we've predicted, which is rounding up such economies. That's why it's necessary, not only to talk about it, because it's already 5, 6 and more years about the existence of an Agro Bank, about the existence of financial institutions that will stand behind our family economies. I think it is important here around this law to highlight certain objections given by the Committee, especially in that section relating to that article 54c. I won't, I'm not a legal expert to stress it, but in any case, the duty of every municipality and city to enforce decisions, laws, etc. which were prescribed, and was also proposed on the Committee to take this Article 54c. A change in a certain way, where a certain deadline will be defined, not to assign the municipality and the city to enforce the law. She owes it to herself and I don't think there's any need to be in that part of the debt for something. It is not good, I think it has already been pointed out that because of certain things it stood and that it stands especially when it comes to things where the programmes available to the agricultural land of certain municipalities and cities are complete and that any pressures or anything stop these programmes. I think they need to be dealt with by road and that this means that we need to contribute to the overall resolution of this problem. I don't think we have much time. I think it is extremely important that this problem of agricultural land be resolved particularly by the state to all those processes that await us, and the processes that await us are related to the accession of the European Union. Therefore, this process should be accelerated. He needs better dynamics. I think the basic law as I said at the beginning is good, only in its conduct in those parts where we kind of stop it needs to be rushed to make it more effective and to achieve the basic goal. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, we will certainly support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35085	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35086	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP club supports the government's intention to start resolving the issue of agriculture and through this law. What is the situation in the area of agriculture and we know for ourselves, worse and worse. We can feed 20 million people on one side according to the potential. On the other hand, we import food and agricultural products. The very fact that in 2003 we imported over a billion and 200 million dollars worth of food and agricultural products tells us enough about it. But unfortunately for the past year, the data is a billion and 400 million dollars, so there has been an increase in imports in this area. The current trends in this area for this year are saying that this year will still overcome it. So this is all saying that the situation is more than alarming. Yes, indeed, instead of becoming an exporting country for agricultural products, and we have potential, we have the possibility, unfortunately, to continue importing agricultural products. For example, for the former authorities, the bumblebees were imported, at the price of one bumblebee 13.5 kuna. Today's the day the bumblebees are imported, but the price is higher, 2 euros. 2 euros, the price is higher. And you know for a fact that bumblebees are used to pollinate tomatoes, it means in greenhouses. It is interesting that no one in Croatia can deal with this area. Shadows are still imported, one ball of 15 and a half kuna imported. And we have areas of Croatia where there is no grass cut at all, and nothing is collected. The imports of straw continue to be imported, both bone and water. All this says that it is necessary to make one full reform in the area of agriculture, in order for this reform to be made. The situation is even worse than Mr Pankretic said in 2000 about which he spoke. First of all, there must be one full balance of agricultural products for the state level, to know first and foremost that it consists of Croatia, how much it takes for Croatia, in what quantities. On the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce and all others must be relevant, which means that the diplomatic service should be involved in solving this problem and after that, when we get the balance, when we know how much we can produce, then it should be possible for our farmers to rely on such production. To know what they'll be able to produce, what quantities and who they'll sell it to. In order to do so, it is necessary to have a state bank, whether it will be agro bank or another state bank that will finance such projects as is important for that project one stop shop. We cannot expect the banks of the current that they will finance Croatian farmers, that they will finance production in Croatia's agriculture, that they will enable new jobs because we ourselves are aware of the circumstances of what kind of loans citizens get far more unfavourable and in both agricultural and any other area than they give in their home countries from which they come. And if we don't have that solution, we'll still have a situation where, let's say, 75% of VAT will be charged on customs because banks are encouraging means just lending to imports like I say, and last year we had imports of agricultural products worth over $1.4 billion and that trend continues today. We ourselves know the situation in the area of encouragement. During the past, it was always those who received the incentive and the countries did not have it. Such a situation continues. There are still various auctions. And we know ourselves the situation that happens, let's just say with an example of payouts and drought damages. For example, the example here can point out from the fertile valley of Neretva that many who did not even have land were compensated, these are concrete data. For example, Boris and Ivan Talajic openly state the situation. Such a situation is present everywhere in Croatia. Therefore, what Mr Pankretic said was neither great nor wonderful now, but if the situation continues in agriculture this way, it will be worse and worse. Therefore, without this programme commitment by the Croatian Party to balance with the existence of a bank of a domestic credit agro bank that will encourage our peasants, we know what kind of situation it is to try to open one, expand in the area of agriculture or, say, livestock production is impossible because you are standing in front of a barrier whether it is to get a location permit, whether it is a building permit, whether it is to get credits that will follow, and we know the conditions and what kind of situation agriculture and farmers will come into if we do something while we have time because this accelerated and agreeing to all kinds of blackmails will lead to the fact that the Croatian peasant, already on a beggar stick, there is no vision and there is no way out of such a situation. Here on behalf of the HSP Club, we must warn of one possibility even though it is not explicit criminal in this law, which is that this law introduces the possibility of selling agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons who participate in trade societies and combinations, I say although it is not explicit criminally there but knowing how our legal practice is going to happen to us, even though buying real estate requires the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration and the Ministry of Agriculture, but we know that through legal persons, so through our companies they have found the party modus and they have come to the agricultural land. That's the kind of danger there is in this part. Therefore, we must be aware that this is only the first step to do something in the area of agriculture because the fact that we have three million hectares of agricultural land, that it is a million and 200 thousand hectares of state, that in this way it will be possible to give a concession or rent something up to 500 thousand hectares says that a whole agricultural programme must be designed to welcome our peasant tomorrow, the day after tomorrow to enter the European Union ready and to help the country stand on its feet so that he can play a normal marketing game and to prevent all these negative trends related to imports and the situation in Croatian agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35087	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35088	Thank you very much. Well, just one false quote from Mr. Kovacevic Pera. I must say, he said that for the former authorities, the incentive was given to those who have no land. It would have turned out to be someone's intention to give someone an incentive without them having agricultural surfaces. It's true that such cases have happened but it's a crime and that's why we have inspection services that determine it in that part. And unfortunately, it will always happen. However, no one deliberately did so in that part of the ministry and should prevent such phenomena from happening as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35089	On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35090	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, I agree that without giving agricultural land to farmers of agriculture in Croatia, it simply cannot be revived. Why? Because of the average property of 2.8 hectares, you simply can't live. It's in Europe if I'm not mistaken for an average of 19 acres. In Croatia I said 2.8 hectares and the gross means our farmers have less than 2.8 hectares. We can mean by policy of these incentives the entire budget in some way translate to be plastic in agriculture but while the average of 2.8 hectares of it simply won't be bread, benefits and we all know that. As we also all know, of these cultures of wheat, the corn of these monocultures as it is already called agriculture can't go any further. These are cultures where there are clear least jobs but from that I said no agriculture will go forward. And we all know that, but because of social peace, there's already ten, fifteen, twenty, maybe thirty years, everything stays the same. So, they're probably gonna have to talk about that too, right? Secondly, the IDS Club is absolutely to get the country to the peasants. Now, whether to sell them the same as the factory to the workers but in the end, what turned out to be there in the early 1990s we know for ourselves. Or it means that they are given land to peasants or given it to them in these long-term leases. First, where the peasants are like in Istria, let's say the land of the day is leased, that famous article 13, I think it was still there in 1993, these people must first of all have a priority on buying if the state decides to sell. In Istria, about 5,000 hectares were given in the three - year leases there in 1993, 1994. It's mostly a country owned by young people. Often they returned from work in Italy, and thanks to this very famous article 13, family heads of which many I dare say, not to say, but it is simply how they live today better than ministers. They work hard, but they live well. They were given about 2,000 hectares of vineyards from the failed PICs which would otherwise have failed and many today are great winemakers, farmers, etc., have created their names, their products are recognized. Many of them are extremely well - placed today, and this should be clearly welcomed. However, there is one big problem when Istria is Wednesday and that is the value of that country and it no longer matters where it is, whether it is near the sea or whether it is in Gračisu, whether it is in Oprlje, whether it is in Motovun if the same gentlemen can be urbanized. I'll say it one more time. The IDS Club absolutely advocates that the country belongs to farmers but that urbanisation should be taken into account. If the country is urbanized and now it doesn't matter if in five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five or fifty years she has to belong to the state again. Why? Because someone's gonna make an amazing profit. So I am to sell it to farmers. For example, in one Cepic where we shared almost a thousand hectares there in 1995-1996 means in that field, but in the case of urbanisation, it is returned to the state, which is then clearly under the same conditions under which it was bought from that peasant, it is necessary for those peasants to pay that contracted or contracted price. Otherwise, gentlemen, someone will make an enormous profit, but the sales process will result in the riching of individuals at the expense of the community. For example. I'm the first to sell to our farmers in Umag in those tomatoes fields, but in the event of urbanization, they need to give in to the state. They agree with that logic because I often talked to them about it. It means that they sell, that farmers can organize, that they can start to deal with that agriculture, that they can also bet in some way and that country, but absolutely against mixing. The land by the cities, especially in Istria, could be a real, real treasure tomorrow. We have been fighting against the strongest economic operators in the Republic of Croatia for 10 years, so to speak. tourism land by the sea that did not enter the core capital of these privatised companies. We managed to challenge thousands of acres of such in Istria, under allegations of "tourism land". We have fought against that booklet of Agrolaguna on almost a thousand hectares of agricultural land in Vrsar and it would not be good to find ourselves in a situation where our citizens start to fight those who would come to the opportunity to crush huge money in this way. We all obviously want our peasant to be rich. The village is the source of our identity, but I'll say one more thing. Istria is also in some way specific, not only because agriculture there is organised only 4% or 4% in the Republic of Croatia, it is better to deal with as little as possible and have as much as possible. I said in Croatia as many as 25% of the population are already because it is after II. World War II, after being hit by a large number of inhabitants of that peninsula, at this time of 30, 40, in some environments such as in the area of Bujština and 50% of state-owned agricultural land, while if I am not mistaken in the Republic of Croatia, state-owned is somewhere around 8% of agricultural land. It was likely that there was a nationalisation and so on throughout Croatia. Among other things, the scale of this war exodus when Istria leaves about 120 thousand people, then Croatia's space of about 196,000 people ex-Yugoslavija around 220 to 230 thousand people. It's mostly that country, and that's what we should say along the western coast of Istria, so from Umag, via Novigrad, Poreč, Vrsar, Rovinj, down to Pula, Medulin. So it's not an example for a Buzet where people are often more burdened than benefits, but this country down there is gentlemen's real capital, it's simply wealth. So, once again, I'm going to say, we're going to do this job, but if this country is urbanized for one reason or another, whether for roads, or for factories, or for industrial zones, or for kindergartens, or for playgrounds, or for some tourist complexes, then let it return to Croatia under the same conditions. That would be the point of IDS' proposal, and I think that's fair. I think it's fair to these farmers, and it's certainly that way, it's also responsible for the state itself. We have to give the land, not to give it to the peasants, well, that steam, that's before they told me it was in force back in the '40s, the '50s, but then the villagers from the village flocked to the cities and after 4 o' 50 years it didn't feel to the village it almost fell apart. Not only in Croatia has it collapsed in almost all socialist countries. Today is our biggest problem, I would even say importing, one, the other, than the village simply leaves us with no children, so it's precisely these children that we round up the property and create the basis that the peasant can again be a benevolent, that he can be rich. One interesting maybe detail. Do you know what category of Croatian citizens has been most neglected in the last 15 years? They're not even defenders, they're not even workers, provided they get paid, they're not even peasants, right after this Act, and they're not chosen by the former authorities who have acquired factories. In one word, they're little craftsmen. The peasants see that now they'll get the land, we welcome it, that's good. The workers who got the so-called social housing, if they were lucky to have them, came in a position to buy them relatively favourably, some, which is not good and will happen again to us with agricultural land something similar, later these apartments were sold for incomparably higher prices, which is also some kind of hanging gentlemen. Directors from the 1990s, I don't know, the elected authorities were given the opportunity to buy them through the form of conversion, privatisation, etc., to the hotel houses factory, craftsmen who own state premises, to buy them out, only craftsmen in local self-government remain the most deficient category in this country to make it impossible. We clearly don't talk about those who didn't even get so-called. So they have to buy it out on the market because these people are, in the right sense, "unhappi." But to return to this law, he must liven up, too bad he hasn't existed for many years, but once again I will say, he must not turn into his other extreme. Many are to praise this Article 54a, for me this article is absurd, it says that if the municipal or city council within two months of the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Agricultural Land does not bring a programme of agricultural land owned by the State, the programme will bring county headship of the county in whose territory is the seat of the municipality or city. Now, when will this law that's in emergency procedures come into force? To assume that we'll vote him on Friday, that he'll come into effect, I don't know now in eight or 15 days, anyway. That's about 15. 4. In the meantime, the councils will disband the municipalities, the elections will go ahead, then the elections will be repeated in some areas, the deadline for the council to draw up a proposal I don't know, the Government, the county there will fit somewhere with 15. Six to one. 7th after that is summer, going holidays, coming new teams that have to take over municipalities, cities, counties, absolutely this deadline is not real. That's why that deadline has to be at least 12 months. I want to believe that only the Ministry in that spirit will correct that very famous article. I agree that foreigners should not, should not be able to come through companies that form here to come into possession, I don't know, these agricultural complexes, especially in one of the first cycles of such sales, and what the County of Istria will certainly come up with a loan programme, the purchase of that land, the state land with interest rates of 1% to 2%. As far as imports are concerned, God forbid that this trend will change, but I doubt it because while the visit is 2.8 hectares, none of it will be, and it would also warmly support the formation of some agro-bank but let the gentlemen save these remaining banks that are in the dominant ownership of the state, such as the Post Office Bank, not to sell it, even through the form of someone asking for a debt refund to the pensioners. If that happens, I am absolutely that the debt to the pensioners is returned through bonds, but not that this debt begins to return through the total sale of state property and those most valuable systems that are, if any, still remain. And to welcome the formation of this agro-bank that could come and lend to our peasants and for the purchase of that state land we absolutely, absolutely support.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35091	Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35092	Dear Mr. Vice President, I believe a very good colleague accidentally pronounced that the peasants are getting this bill. No peasants get this bill. They can only exercise their rights in one way or another; lease, concession or purchase. And yet another, there are no 25% peasants and there are no 25% peasants in Croatia. That's incorrect. And thirdly, it's bullshit who mentions 2.8 or 3 size properties. It's some kind of administrative trick that we can only call ourselves, really, it's a very different situation. But here's the problem that needs to be dealt with, not just the authority to mention and speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35093	Thank you. We finished this morning's session. Continuing is at 3:00 p.m., and it is up to the Honorable Vice-President of the House Mato Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Party at 13.32 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35094	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on agricultural land. It is up to SDP's respected vice president, Mato Arlovic, on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35095	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the debate on amendments and additions to the agricultural land law could not actually be implemented without opening several more issues in that segment. Among them, one constitutional law would say with a principle issue. In fact, we are constantly being led by the debate on agricultural land as if it were exclusively land owned by the state. That's not true. Agricultural land with ownership of the legal regime is located in different forms of ownership rights. And in this context, it is not enough to carry out a discussion from the point of view of the lease of concession, or the sale of state agricultural land. The second is to warn or better to remind the fact that land is the first limited resource, agricultural land. Second, it's also a basic means of working that it's a natural treasure. But that's also the object of working in agrarian, of course, fruit growing, livestock farming. Vegetables and so on. And that, in this context, it is necessary to discuss, in fact, the constitutional legal provision of Article 52 that, among other things, the land as well of interest for the Republic of Croatia deserves its "special" or special protection. And the whole problem with our law in agricultural land is that it speaks about who and how it will make decisions. How to privatise can be directly or indirectly agricultural land. How to ensure that he has certain burdens or ownership legal powers from leases through concessions to ownership rights. And in fact, what is the basic constitutional postulate to be realized is not yet regulated by law. This is the protection itself and the regime itself of exploiting the management and availability of agricultural land with the aim of achieving the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia and of good interest to the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, neither this amendment nor the addition of the law to that question answers. The second thing to warn about is the fact and why we started discussing our observations in principle. It is that if the debate is not covered by the aspect of the agricultural land legal regime in a broader sense. Not only in the ownership sense of that word, then we come to a situation where we surprise ourselves with individual solutions and also half the nature that we offer in amendments and additions to the law and this. For example, we are now ready to say how well it is possible to achieve concessions and fisheries. 20 to 40 years as provided for in Article 14. However, it should be recalled that Article 2 of the applicable law also mentions this. And to list that ponds are farmland. And they belong to the structure of agricultural land. Now, if they can establish concessions when it comes to state-owned fishermen. Then it would have to be debated so that the law could be established of course. But also that the right to privatise that part can be established. By opening up a serious question, it is possible for something to be in a double and more professional legal regime. For example, if the pond is in agricultural activity, fisheries of agricultural activity, agricultural land, then it is possible to still pay, in addition to the rent or concession fee, water-based fees which are all harmonised or prescribed by a specific law such as the water law and so on. It is obvious that this is in fact the activity of the area of agriculture of the food system that we are additionally burdening and, in such a situation, it is certain that this issue should be further discussed and assessed what to do about such a situation. Of course, in this context, further amendments should also be discussed, other than this one, which we have raised along the way as one of the principle issues that confirms in fact a pardon, the principle issue concerning the agricultural land regime. The second question is that ownership powers can again be restricted by law only in accordance with the Constitution in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We have limited the maximum amount of agricultural land that can go to privatisation, rent and so on or concession by law on the applicable Agricultural Land Act. And now by law we predict that units of local self-government could actually limit the maximum lease area that can be given or requested in the lease. It wouldn't be right. Such a right could not be granted originally to units of local self-government. That's more like land that's once again owned by the state. Therefore, if it is trying to look for some line not only of justice but also of economics, on which areas certain activities of agriculture can be established, to be economical, efficient and effective. Then the minimum that should actually be ensured is to write down these criteria and other, that it still has to give consent to the owner. Otherwise we'll put ourselves in a position to rule out the owner. In this way is practically available in the full of its contents would practically transfer on this segment... either on a local self-government unit which is not possible inexplicable or better said, it would turn out as if the state had a sense of burden to manage its own property called agricultural land and which is of course of good national interest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another problem that, the third problem that arises in this context, is a question that is equally interesting. That agricultural land owned by a state can be sold by direct contract and this is the first case I've heard of where the owner is willing to agree that whoever buys it prove to him that it's in his interest. That he's selling it. Because here the law says that one who buys such a sale in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and that part. Look, it's something I've never seen before. That's amazing. It is a total non-response against the ownership of the legal authority which, under the Constitution, the state authorities own, this segment of ownership in relation to that part. So we prescribe whoever wants to buy it to explain to us what the public interest of the Republic of Croatia is. Look, he can't do that. Even if we wanted to pass it on to him, we could not, because by law we must determine the interests of the Republic of Croatia in order to sell it. Look at Article 9, then you'll see that that's what it says as I just said before. The fourth part of which is interesting and which should certainly be discussed is the situation in which professional jobs in Article 10 are now transferred from the county offices that were so equipped with expert teams to local self-government units as they will carry out professional jobs in the lease of agricultural land owned by the state are entrusted by the authorities of the municipality, the city and so on. On the one hand, it seems this way that we are ready to carry out this decentralisation and at the same time we are aware that more than 30% of our municipalities and cities simply cannot do this job. He just can't do it. Because there's no means to do that. It is said that 50&% of which of the leases or concessions or the sale of land belongs to local self-government units will finance it. But look at how many new changes and, new law on territorial demarcation of municipalities, cities of counties in our country, we create new municipalities that make up a populated place that simply doesn't have one. So we know well that we have municipalities that have under a thousand inhabitants and that certainly these kinds of jobs will not be done and these are more because they are professional businesses where they should both have geodetics and lawyers and agronomists, etc. And if it's about renting again and concessions that are related to I don't know, fruit growing, vegetables, then additional specialist activities, etc. In this context, therefore, the fifth case should be taken into account on the one hand. If, however, municipalities do not bring in a programme for agricultural land related to, with the agreement of course of the ministry, with the opening of tenders for sale, etc., etc. Now we say, you see that decision will be made by the county. And why didn't we say, and what would happen if the professional jobs for the reason there's no money, no Cards, etc. Some municipalities can't do that, and who's gonna do those jobs. Or we'll stop the job in that area. Why didn't we say so, let the county offices or public administration offices do it, which I think would be the most normal and simplest thing for a simple reason because they would then professionally guarantee that they would respect the particular interest of the state in the management of agricultural land as good of particular interest. The fifth thing that is also quite interesting and that is certainly and certainly to be taken into account is the question of what about the issue of headquarters, residence. A citizen, I'm sorry, everyone has only one residence, the place can have more. But here, all of a sudden, we say he has a place of residence, in article 11 or seat. And that's where he can file for it. And what if the territory or area of agriculture is located, and as a rule it is when it comes to the lease of higher areas in the area of several units of local self-government. Well, he can't have a home at the same time on multiple units of local self-government. It should then, however, be more precise to arrange that at least there is a residence or if it is a legal person's seat, on one of the units of local self-government which includes the area of agricultural which is leased, concessioned or not known to go for sale, etc. Otherwise we'll get into a situation that he'll practically have to lease so much on one of the municipalities, then he'd have to go to another, third, etc. In practice, we're going to cut agricultural areas on the principle of municipal borders, but at that point, we're not even aware that it might not be an accident. We have returned to a form of localism and closure in local forms of ownership, i.e. municipal borders, etc. It is very interesting and that is what the testimony is about, is also the fact that it is also seen from the article, for example 54c, where the following is said. I have to quote it for a simple reason because I draw a specific conclusion from it. "The units of local self-government are obliged to amend the country-owned agricultural land distribution programmes for their own territory on the basis of established judicial decisions," see wonders, "judicial judgments, judicial administrative solutions and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." Let me have a little dipression on behalf of our club. I haven't been in these 15 years since I've read more criticism and self-critics in the current government so far. This is the first time Mrs. Authority has publicly admitted that units of local self-government or better said, those she controls and oversees and conducts administrative supervision for the implementation of the Law on Agricultural Land do not respect court rulings, and disrespecting and non-compliance with the judgment is a criminal act. So what does it actually mean to write it here now? Or I don't know about administrative solutions, powerful administrative solutions, decisions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, etc. It seems either that it's a serious awkwardness or that it's actually a total failure compared to those over 340 units of local self-government, municipalities and cities that didn't actually do their job, so you don't know what to do. But in such a situation, it is certainly not good for the rule of law state, nor for the very idea of the rule of law to remain this way. And we at our club are thinking of proposing a possible solution to the Proposer to look for some sort of solution in this direction, not to put it this way that the obligation of the disposal programme is to change on the basis of a court ruling, etc. So this is what is meant, but to set a time limit in which they are obliged to do so. So it can be said that the units of local self-government are required within, I don't know, 60 days, 90 days to amend the programme of availability of agricultural land on the basis of a valid judicial verdict, administrative solution and so on, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia decisions if the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision is simply not resolved otherwise. Of course, other issues such as this issue of Article 54a must also be taken into account here. If the municipal or city council does not adopt a land-owned programme within 2 months of the entry into force of the Law amending the law on agricultural land, the programme will adopt the county headship. And now an additional question is being raised. Please, the entire Agricultural Land Act is focused on how citizens, i.e. their elected representatives in representative bodies and units of local and regional self-government, decide on it. And suddenly, instead of the municipal and city councils, we now pass it on not to the municipal and city councils, but to the executive, or to the headship of the county assembly, or regional self-government. It just couldn't go. Something that still belongs to those who respond to direct elections before citizens to be transferred to those who have been indirectly elected would be wrong and in this respect not only would the interest of the Republic of Croatia be respected but it would actually be obstructed. And, of course, the matter of the Ministry's inspection and inspection remains. It's all right here that they're supposed to work, but if they have to do all that, then Article 54c is, in my opinion, way too much. It does not need to be as an instructional norm, it should be converted into a transitional provision saying that, if, in the implementation of court decisions, at least deadlines relating to administrative action must be respected, which is that within 60 days, there must be a change in the course of such a situation when it is settled. And the last thing we have to comment on, it's a matter of limiting the price of the concession, i.e. the lease if it's above the double amount. Well, you see, that's why we stopped market relations, and that's not good. It is necessary to resolve the question in which the conditions will not be respected in order to protect some other interests related to the development of certain activities in which the Republic of Croatia is disabled in relation to, for example, the European Union, etc., so that priority will be given, but in no way should be limited to the market activity in paying the rent or concession or the market price of agricultural areas for a simple reason, because it is recognised that the owner is losing on the market. And this does not protect the particular interest of the Republic of Croatia which, in whose possession this agricultural land is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35096	Thank you very much. One notice. The Vice-President of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr. Josip Leko, called a meeting of the Committee today at 4 p.m. in the Chamber of Mr. Josip Jelačić, with the agenda of the motions on the agenda of this session, and in particular of this law which we are now discussing and the next law to come, and then I would like the representatives of the Government to be on the Committee at 4 p.m. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Željko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35097	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments to this law should be achieved in order to speed up other open procedures for the adoption of a programme for agricultural land owned by units of local self-government, with the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, as well as the sale, lease and concession of agricultural land owned by the State in accordance with the Law on Agricultural Land which is bound by the European Union, we propose amendments and additions to that law. If, within two months of the entry into force of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, the municipal head office of the county is the seat of the municipality and of the city, the municipal council and the municipal council shall adopt a programme. I think these changes will achieve this goal, with a reference to the Committee on Agriculture, we have had some concrete remarks, such as my remark, that we will protect agricultural land from buying foreigners. I was told that Article 1 is the protection of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, and I will also read to you Article 1. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, has its special protection. Agricultural land is used and protected and made available by law. The rightholders of ownership on the land referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may not be foreign legal or natural persons unless the international contract provides otherwise. However, colleagues and colleagues, sister companies, i.e. the owners of foreign companies in the Republic of Croatia are not exempt from this and I warn of this problem with the right not to be surprised in a few years as it happened to us with the Croatian banks. We did not turn around and no Croatian bank is in Croatian hands. I am also afraid, and for a reason again and again, that this article is not enough to protect agricultural land and I will insist on it. Mr. Minister told me that in the Croatian party they are not interested in buying agricultural land. I assure you gentlemen if they discover they have a hole in the law, they will buy all Croatian agricultural land at the small door. Therefore, these amendments and additions to this Law on Agricultural Land are good, there are bad things that we have warned on the board, but globally they can be supported and the Croatian People's Party and the PGS will support this bill, with Mr. Secretary of State asking to take into account and respect our comments that we have and regarding municipalities that are not able and have no professional services, they have no finances to handle themselves in areas where they are helping them and to be in the well-being of all both the ministries and the state and Croatian farmers in their protection. However, some colleagues said that we had taken a sour apple. We haven't even picked a sour apple yet. In order for Croatian agriculture to function and move at all, this law, these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, concern only state-owned agricultural land. I have to warn here that the private-owned agricultural land and what is waiting for us in it, I think that the secretary of state and the people of the ministry are very aware of it and that the sour apple is just coming for us. I want to contribute to that, so I'll try to give my vision of it in short lines. Gentlemen in history have taught us things of kings, countess, great owners. Only one of the oldest sons could inherit the land. Why? Well, that's so it doesn't get wet. Today in Croatia, it is a deforested land that simply a tractor on some fields cannot even come, let alone plow or do something else. So we're waiting for the rounding of Croatian land. The irrigation system. Law on the inheritance of Croatian land. I don't think that without these things, Croatian agriculture can take a single step. What can happen to us? And this land, which is now large, which we are about to sell, is going to give concessions to agricultural families, crafts, if we don't encourage changes on the heritage of Croatian land, it could just happen to us that in a decade and this land that is now largely happened to be depreciated and not be suitable for agricultural production. So compared to these amendments and the additions to the laws, I think it's of general interest that the sooner I repeat it, we bite the acid apple, and we decide to present it to the Parliament and that we parliamentarians solve the Law on Inheritance in the agricultural land, the rounding of land and irrigation. Without it, Croatian agriculture, believe me, will not be, and Europe will one day come to see if it will be in five or ten years, believe me as such will not respect us and we will not be a significant factor in Europe. I think we can support this law, that these changes aren't bad, that they're going to get better. But, gentlemen of the ministry, I think there's still a long way to go to success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35098	Thank you. I'm reporting that it's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing at 15.25. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Mato Stimac. Here you go. ... What? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no application. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And did you sign up? Let me see. Yeah, he was just down there. Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35099	Mr. President, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Agricultural Land Act, and we would like to say that these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act will allow for the continuation of the management of agricultural land, which is currently or currently in force in 2001, almost stopped. The reason was several, but one of the main ones was that the municipalities did not have a satisfactory infrastructure, primarily human resources, to implement the obligations given to them, and the administration offices that needed to help them solve these problems were largely not involved in those tasks, and there were examples that certain municipalities and cities were not engaged in these jobs for political reasons. Nearly 200 municipalities and cities still have no programme of management for state agricultural land. The current law allows units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities to manage state agricultural land on the basis of a programme which was intended to provide for state agricultural land through the purposes of sales, leases, concessions, return and urban development. The municipalities and cities shall, in accordance with the law, have a sale and lease in their jurisdiction while the concession is in the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The current law of municipalities and cities has lost the possibility of making available and managing abandoned private-owned agricultural land, which it has in significant areas especially on the coast and on the islands, and there are absurd situations. On the one hand, the states are making great efforts to bring in the culture of unprocessed forest land to raise permanent plantation, and on the other hand thousands of hectares of private-owned agricultural land are abandoned and not processed. Furthermore, the majority of the municipality's land and cities have foreseen their programmes for sale. Since the state agricultural land is almost in the territory of the whole of Croatia catastrianally not in line with the real state of land, book, property and legal status unresolved, it was therefore not possible to offer through public tenders for sale but only in lease. Since the current Law does not provide for restrictions in the area that individual competitors can even bid a price limit that can be offered, family farms that are priority first only theoretically had this right to be truly and respected. The practice showed that natural and legal persons who were underprivileged had bid significant areas and with financial amounts where the initial price was mainly at 300 kuna level, and the final prices often ranged from 2 thousand to 3 thousand kuna and more. Therefore, it turns out that no agricultural culture that would be sown on such surfaces could satisfy either the lease itself, let alone any profit. In other words, they were entitled to the lease, but in reality they were largely unable to consume it. This is one of the main reasons why municipalities and cities that have brought programmes and obtained agreement from the ministry did not then open leases but maintained an existing situation in which land is in the unauthorized possession of family farms that no one is in favour of. Farmers have no certainty that this land will continue to be processed and cannot plan or develop in the long term. Neither the unit of local administrations nor the state receive adequate rent from land, which would increase budgets continue to invest it in the development of agriculture in their areas. There were also no number of cases where the authorities of municipal and city authorities had published tenders outside the legal conditions for which they did not receive the consent of the ministries or that the selection of the most favourable bidders had been chosen by the criteria themselves, which could also not have been obtained by the ministry or by a state lawyer who was obliged to determine whether the procedure was done in accordance with the legal provisions. Furthermore, Article 67 of the current Act, which allows legal entities and their legal heirs who have bought agricultural land in due time and can prove this, to obtain the same direct contract in a priority concession. Which part of the municipalities and cities in the design of their programmes did not respect the state agricultural land at all, and it created chaos, chaos and uncertainty on the ground. All these are more than enough reasons for these shortcomings of the current law to be resolved in order to continue the management of state agricultural land in the interest of agricultural producers and our agrarians in general. With these changes and additions the intention is precisely this open question to be resolved. Thus, these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act will require municipalities and cities to submit within 60 days their programmes to state agricultural land and, after obtaining agreement from the ministry, to open a tender for lease and sale. Furthermore, it is prescribed that, after agreement has been given to call tenders by the ministry, the City Council must make decisions on selecting the most favourable bidders. If they fail to comply with the envisaged procedure at any stage of those operations, they shall be entrusted to the counties. These changes will significantly speed up the long-term state land availability process and put the agricultural production into a more long-term position as well. Which will give safety to the farmers. The criteria of the land sales programme shall be transferred to the lease programme and shall also allow the municipal and urban programmes to limit areas per competitor. The price is limited to a maximum of double the initial amount. This change will give the family's farms a real chance to consume the form of leases. Furthermore, in accordance with strategic commitments in the development of our agriculture for the determination of advantages in the right of the championship, whether it is a sale, lease or concession, they will have agricultural entities offering programmes from livestock, permanent crops and vegetables. The amendments and additions to the proposed Law could be said at a public debate both with the associations of agricultural producers and in most parts of the proposal was agreed and given the green light for adoption. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club is also unreservedly, once again, supporting these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35100	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable representative Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35101	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So the current Agricultural Land Act has shown in practice that there are many shortcomings and shortcomings that have been manifested through the difficult and slow processes of availability to state agricultural land whether it is a sale, lease or concession. One of the main reasons for slowing these processes is insufficient and inadequate infrastructure in municipalities and cities that could professionally and competently carry out these tasks. First of all, it's about the people that the municipalities don't have. Therefore, the well-intentioned idea that municipalities and cities as the closest and most directly related to this problem were also the most called for to solve it has fallen into the water. A large number of municipalities and cities have not yet brought their own programmes to state agricultural land for the aforementioned, but also some other reasons. The problem then expressed is the inability to call for land sales tenders according to the programmes due to the unresolved land and property situation of state land, e.g. cadastre and grantovnica, which in the field is causing great dissatisfaction among potential land buyers. The lease, the second type of availability to state agricultural land, is also accompanied by a number of problems. The most pronounced is that in the criteria for the realization of leases there are no limits to the area which a competitor in the competition can bid or have limits on the prices that can be offered the most as set out in the criteria for the purchase of land. Practice has shown that family farms at the top of the championship rights cannot achieve that right. Namely, the tenders showed that the legal and natural persons of the lower rank of the championship competed for significant areas in competitions and offered the amounts of rents that the most frequent production in the family farms could hardly bear, and such conditions were largely not acceptable to the family holding and were left without land. This was the reason that municipalities and cities did not go to tendering after obtaining the ministry's consent. Furthermore, the price as the sole criterion of choice among agricultural producers is assessed as inappropriate and unacceptable because it does not respect the development guidelines and needs of our agriculture. All of these shortcomings in the current Law were the grounds that one part of the municipalities and cities had opened a tender according to their own conditions and criteria, and that the same way had determined the choice of the most favourable bidders for which they could not obtain the consent of the Ministry or of the State's attorney and that even the streets had been transferred to solve such problems. The current Law did not give the possibility to give agricultural areas for concessions for fisheries purposes, and most of the ponds were formed on agricultural land areas and this is an area of law and undefined. In addition to what counterpart Arlovic said, in Article 2 of the existing Law, where only the taxicabs were listed. These amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act seek to regulate and speed up the agricultural land supply process. The procedures of the implementing bodies and the deadlines of the tender procedure and the selection of the most favourable bidder, the introduction into possession and residence in cases of termination of the contract have been prescribed, as has not been the case so far. Thus, those municipalities and cities that are unable to determine the required obligations in the scheduled deadlines lose those rights and are transferred to the counties. The lease of agricultural land on these changes and additions through the establishment of a maximum area per single competitor... of price limits to a double amount of the initial allow for the fact that family farms can be consumed in practice. The economic programme becomes one of the criteria for obtaining the lease and becomes an integral part of the contract and, if no contract is implemented, the contract is terminated. A redefined advantage in the lease and sale if more persons are in the same right of the championship in such a way as to have the advantage of those engaged or intended to deal with livestock, permanent crops and vegetable production, which is in line with the strategic definitions of the development of agriculture, thus meeting the requirements of most of the associations of agricultural producers. Similarly, the advantage of the concession championship rights has been redefined, which is also in line with the strategic definitions of the development of our agriculture. A concession for fisheries is being arranged for 20 to 40 years, which has been a legal gap so far. The proposed changes should significantly speed up the availability processes for agricultural land and put the agricultural production into a more rapid position that will allow agricultural operators to plan and invest in their own development in the long term. What is not foreseen by these amendments and I believe that the availability of farmland should be available whether it is private-owned land whether it is owned by the Republic of Croatia if it is not processed in the previous vegetative period, therefore my colleague Fiolic and I have submitted an amendment that we believe the Ministry may accept or in practice only my municipality has over 1500 hectares of land now in the weeds and vegetation and the existing Law in Article 2 says that in the maintenance of agricultural land referred to in paragraph 3 of this article, it is considered to be a prevention of its hardening and breeding by several years of growth. Also, Article 10, which states how to manage, we believe, would make this addition an article 10. The Ministry could've accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35102	Thank you. Replicated representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. One brief replica given that we are in this amendment I would say was in the original proposal to amend and supplement this Law and very much discussed it and I think that the intention is not bad and I think that each of us here who understands the agricultural and especially in land policy will say that it is certainly inadmissible to have unprocessable agricultural land. However, touching private property, this is about private ownership is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I think the proposer was right when he didn't put it in his original proposal to it, we have the possibility and that the possibility is that municipalities and cities can prescribe punishment and should prescribe a penalty for every square metre or for every hectare of unprocessed agricultural land. We can't solve this problem this way, we can solve it in a way that the municipalities and cities write down that provision that they are allowed by already existing laws both in this way and in private, and I would say to the state that there will be no unprocessed agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35104	Thank you. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague, I've said in the existing law things that limit, so Article 2, Article 10. If we look at the constitutional law then Article 52(2) says that it is not affected by ownership, that the owner has an obligation not only to have the right and no one is intruding with the right that someone will take away that property from him only if the agricultural land is of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it just means that in this case the municipality or city will continue to care for him who did not do so. So it's not taking away property that creates only the possibility that it can be done through..., that it's carried out by municipalities and cities without taking away a man that the state benefits from it, means not to take away rights but only to take away under Article 52(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution, and under this existing Law, paragraphs 2 and 10, means Articles 2 and 10 where this is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35106	Thank you. Dear Representative Stjepan Fiolić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35107	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. I personally support the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land with the final proposal for a law to be adopted by an urgent procedure for making the law more effective and faster to be implemented. First, municipalities and cities will be able to regulate the lease and sale of land, moreover, if some municipal and city councils do not call for any political reason, it will be possible to do so by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and within 2 months of the agreement given to the Ministry on a decision to call a tender or to sell tender decisions for the most favourable bidder. He brings the county headship of the county to the competition on a proposal from the commission appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Furthermore, the larger producers welcome the decision to consider the price offered for the lease and concession by the bidders meeting the conditions not exceeding the double price because otherwise such an offer will be considered invalid. We also find it particularly important to sell agricultural land to our producers who are engaged in the production of meat, milk and cereals, and not to foreigners who cannot be competitive under this law cannot become the owners of the country. By buying the country, our producers will be able to plan on producing grains, producing milk and meat for a long time. Raising new orchards to build farms and obtain land processing equipment. With this Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Water Economy protects our producers and farms from having the advantage in the order of several bidders and puts first owners and tenants of the farm which, with the land given in the concession, constitute a technological whole. It will not happen that as in neighbouring Hungary, where farmers lost land and later sold for invaluable goods. This Law also regulates where smaller producers of vegetables, fruit will be able to report to the competition and increase production by direct contract so far and buy round their family economies. With this approach, we will allow far greater production of vegetables, fruits, and cereals for meat production that we know to be too much imports today but someone must cut it in favour of Croatian production and this way thanks to the Croatian Government and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the water economy which have proposed this Law by an urgent procedure which I am personally supporting and I will vote for it. With such a decision I assure you all of you in this Croatian House of Experience, we are avoiding a black trade that is too big and painful for our country. We will get satisfied manufacturers but also soon the meat exporters towards Italy who today buys everything found and offers even though these quantities are ridiculously small. In the end, you shouldn't be afraid of rich peasants and producers, God forbid there's as many of them as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35108	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I only have one correction, although I agree with this last beautiful quote with Mr. Fioliæ, but the correction refers to what he said that this law regulates that foreigners cannot buy agricultural land. These amendments and additions do not touch this article and that is not true, that is set out in Article 1. The laws and they now do not change that foreigners cannot, natural and legal persons cannot buy agricultural land and acquire property but, in the follow-up to this article, it is also written if it is not otherwise settled by international contract, which is our big job in future negotiations in international contracts to resolve it in a different way. Therefore, not with these amendments and additions, but with the Law of 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35110	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Rebic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35111	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. It is good that we got on the benches of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land and because of the ambition to put as much agricultural land as possible before entering the European Union and make the best use of this time. Obviously, the practice has shown that the 2001 Agricultural Land Act simply does not produce results, creates obstacles that slow down the process of availability, sales, leases and concessions of agricultural land owned by the state. If we remember that Croatian forests in war years, all forests and pastures, all agricultural but almost all building land, were registered to a country in whose name they ruled. You can imagine how many units of local self-government have become helpless to influence the development of agriculture or economy in their area, for each project in order to get land in its area should have been allowed by the Croatian forests, and this has been many times inexplicable, and so the good projects have often failed and what is most important is that in some environments so almost impossible every development of agriculture. I will give an example of how an interpretation of the state's attorneyship of the existing Forest Law has affected the development of entrepreneurship zones. In fact, the Law has been interpreted so that since 9 months 2003 units of local self-government cannot be the ultimate users but Croatian forests. By interpreting the Law all the good done by the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship, everything was completely stopped and it took a full year for the new authority to correct itself. In the past year in the Split-Dalmatia County thanks to the new climate that is the government of the Ministry of Agriculture but also more than good incentives are planted on dozens of hectares of new plantations mainly vineyards and olive trees and other fruits. This proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land will certainly improve the situation for the first time but also give a chance for units of local self-government to have a significant impact on development. Amendments to the laws imposing deadlines on municipalities and cities are a good solution to the existing law because they speed up the process of adoption and implementation of the programme as well as the competition itself. This should certainly lead to the acceleration of privatisation and the post of state agricultural land. So far, practice has shown that the programme and availability can also stand and remain in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the water economy for a year without any evidence. Thus, a provision should also be introduced into the Law under which the programme or competition with automation would be agreed if the Ministry did not respond within 30 days. In this way, it would be avoided if programmes and tenders were long in the ministry, which would also speed up the privatisation process of state agricultural land, this could also be resolved by amendment if the Ministry did not show its consent to the programme or tender within 30 days of delivery. Article 55a speaks of renting agricultural land for three years by municipalities and cities. In fact, such a possibility has existed so far even though it has been arranged by other laws but in practice it has hardly been implemented anywhere. In particular, it has been questioned for three years, it can be interesting for vegetable and war cultures and only for the production for which it is sought larger, more investment on a period of only three years. The specific question is what about areas that are vineyards or fruit plants or surfaces that are plastics or greenhouses. In addition, it is necessary to define the meaning of the concept processed in order not to make a difference in interpretation. Article 55c speaks of paying taxes on unprocessed agricultural land. This article is strong, and it is not visible how it will be implemented. In particular, it is not visible at which time this special regulation must be adopted, if the article remains this way, then a deadline should be set within which it must be regulated by the regulation. It will certainly be very difficult to determine who owns the parcels that are unprocessed for books, etc., land books. I think we should turn everything around in another way here, and introduce a tax on all land and then release the tax payments of those who process it, in this way we will motivate manufacturers to report what and on which surfaces of products and everything else will be considered untreated and will come under tax pressure. The only question remains that needs to be discussed in detail whether the tax is charged to owners or owners and one and the other makes sense, but should be seen in accordance with our condition and further development, which is easier to implement. I personally believe that this is one of the better laws that the Assembly will pass and will certainly improve the development of agriculture in order to make it more ready and with the greater working surfaces into the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35112	Thank you very much. There's one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35113	Very brief, Vice President. An esteemed colleague made an incorrect claim, given that there was no climatic disturbance here in our neighborhoods is still the same climate in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry which confirms this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35114	I mean, it's not like it's the air-conditioning or anything, but it's good. Let's move on. He has the word Mr. Representative Marko Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35115	... And fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] In practice, the application of the Law on Agricultural Land has shown that there are many obstacles that slow down the process of subsistence of land leases and concessions owned by the State. Long-term procedures for the adoption of a programme on the availability of agricultural land in municipalities and city councils are obstacles to the placing of state agricultural land in office. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Water Economy on the availability of state agricultural land over the past years of 476 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia, which have agricultural land, only 340 programmes have been submitted to the Ministry, and 136 municipalities and cities have not supplied such programmes. The ministry has so far agreed on 267 programmes, for a total area of 481 thousand hectares and 73 programmes have been restored to complement and comply with the agricultural land management strategy in our country. Municipalities and cities and after obtaining consent to the programme have not opened a tender for the sale and lease or concession of state agricultural land. So far, the basis of the tender has been leased 25 thousand hectares, sold 17 thousand 700, given a concession of 14 thousand 350. According to these data, only 12% of the country's agricultural land for which programmes have been approved was given. With such availability, we cannot be satisfied with the state land. By simplifying and speeding up the process for the adoption of a programme for the availability of state agricultural land, it is possible to encourage municipalities and cities to place significant areas of agricultural land in place. For this reason, the Proposer has proposed amendments and additions to the law that I absolutely support in the most part and I think it is a good solution. The proposer proposes that the following issues be settled. In the first place, the Agricultural Land Act is in line with the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministries and State Administrative Organizations on the Control of Ministrys and County Offices. Professional jobs related to the sale and lease of state agricultural land are entrusted to the administrative body of the municipality and the city, i.e. the city of Zagreb responsible for agriculture. I think it's a very good provision, because in any case our municipalities and cities are, and they have to be most interested in the fate of the state agricultural land, and yet they make significant funds out of it. The proposer also proposes to regulate the primary right of purchase of land in the tender and to have it on the condition that it is entered in the register of agricultural holdings with residence or headquarters in the unit of local self-government in the following order. The title is given to the family holding registered in the register of income taxpayers. And the family farm. So that's one very important priority, and only behind that come all those interested. There was a need to prescribe additional conditions in the conduct of the competition. So if there are multiple participants in the competition in the same order of the purchase right, the advantage will be determined according to the following criteria. The current tenant, owner of neighbouring land, Croatian defender from the Homeland War and members of the family of the deceased, deceased or missing defender if they are engaged in agricultural activity. Owner of a built production facility, i.e. persons engaged or intending to deal with livestock production. All this is provided that the tendering participant accepts the highest price offered and contributes to the economic programme of land use. One important question relating to the purchase price bill is now being passed on to cities and municipalities and of course to the county when they conduct the sale process. This law also introduces the sale of state agricultural land by direct contract, as it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. One newspaper is introduced in the lease, although the conditions for the rental championship are as good as those for the sale. One newspaper is introduced that in the event that the offer for the purchase of leases is higher than twice the initial price, that offer is not considered valid. And that's one very, very high-quality solution, because in this way, it's going to prevent the manipulation of the purchase of leases that has so far been very interesting, because one comes up with a high price and then quits, and the one behind it that offered some kind of minimum price then gets the lease, gets the right to rent, and thus creates serious problems in the local self-government unit. In the case of concessions, one newspaper has been offered that land can be given in a concession for fishing production over a period of 20 to 40 years. I would simply warn that the proposer is keeping an eye on the sublaw issue of water use that is needed for that fishery area, and these issues are covered by the Water Economy Act. And this is actually the previous issue of giving concessions to agricultural land for fish production. It is also included in the concession, it is included in the priority of the family agricultural economy and agricultural crafts. Although only fully agreed that when awarding concessions, the rights of large economies, i.e. legal and natural persons engaged in agricultural production, have an advantage. And there were additional conditions to be installed, so the legislator did, so the priority is to own or rent a farm that, with the land given in the concession, makes it a technological whole. And there's a cap on the lease price at a double price, a double starting price. Furthermore, I can finally say that I welcome the setting of deadlines and the limitation of the time limits within which municipalities and cities should bring their programmes to agricultural land, conduct tenders, or conclude contracts with those participants of competitions that have succeeded, because it is in fact the only way to place significant areas of agricultural land in office. And if they don't, then it'll be done by the county authorities. Finally, I would point out that the law also regulated the issue of structure and work of inspection as well as administrative supervision in the ministry in an appropriate manner, as this ministry has already taken over inspections from state inspection, of course those concerning the issue of agriculture. And in the end, in order to correct sentences and other things in the law itself, I have serious objections to some expressions. However, Mr. Vice President, I will make an amendment to which I will submit to the President of the Croatian Parliament. In the end, I would conclude that I support the adoption of this Law, because I consider it a quality solution that addresses most of the issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35116	Thank you very much. We've got a replica of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35117	Well, here's from my colleague Shirtz's exposure, including some other colleagues before that. In fact, an impression could be created that since local communities, local units were not on time or were not able to tolerate the land's programme at all, it could not have been used more adequately. And that it will be improved by the very changes to this law. I'd like to warn you it's not that simple. That the biggest obstacle is actually how to privatise state agricultural land, because it is precisely why all those who want to deal seriously with agriculture are interested, so they are not interested in some short-term lease, or perhaps in a long-term concession, but precisely in buying land because it is then a long-term solution to production not only of the existing economy but also in the future of their successors. The biggest problem is that they are not solved, which is that property-legal relations is not clean in land books. No one's gonna buy land that's not granted. When the law was passed in 1991, so for 14 years it was in force, by passing laws and by supporting the so-called social agricultural land, it was not possible to implement automation to translate social agricultural land into land books into state land. That is why I think it takes one coordinated action of the ministries or the state and local communities to raise funds from the leases, from concessions, and from some sales where it is possible to use precisely for this purpose to sort out land books. Only then will we be able to actually get the real use and privatisation of state agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35118	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Marko Shirac. Here you go. Mr. President, I think my colleague Zgrebec pointed out some things, but it's not really a replica that she didn't bring up. I hope no one in this House can be satisfied with the state that we have only 12% of the land in state property today in office officially. So there are other programs that are being implemented in this country as regards the arrangements for ownership rights. The State Geodetic Administration and through its activities is helping municipalities to manage ownership. I know a lot of municipalities that have solved the issue with my colleagues at the State Geodetic Authority because they have taken professional people and, or institutions that have come to the scene, have found that this is state land and have initiated a process of ownership resolution. If this is not going to work, I assure you that we will never get into a situation in the Republic of Croatia that we have an orderly state of catastra, land books and what is on the ground. I also note that it is not a simple process and that it will take a long time but where municipalities are interested they can also solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35120	The concept of replica is very wide, so... It was all within normality because just let it be related to the subject being discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. It's Madam Representative Ruža Lelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues! Well, here I really support and welcome these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land because it has proved, however, that this law, which has been insufficiently effective since 2001, has shown a number of obstacles to the availability of agricultural land in terms of both concessions and leases, and sales. So here I am, and that's how I'm just going to show examples from the Vukovar-Srijem County that about 150 thousand acres as much agricultural land as 64 thousand hectares of state property means that was available to these all processes that I've listed and only of those 64 thousand just five thousand hectares is now required consent to sell. So, for only five thousand, there was no agreement for sale and four thousand and 400 hectares of evidence were filed by local self-government units and they submitted a request for approval for the competition. And if we now see how small that is in relation to the total surface, then we can't even assume if this process could end. So I really welcome these amendments to the laws which set the deadline until when units of local self-government are obliged to make programmes, to seek consent to the competition but also to choose the most favourable offer and, if that is the case, do not do so then that the county will do so for them. We've seen here in debates that remember that some municipalities do it because of the deficit in the frame and they're not able to do it. Normally, again, when we count two months, two months, and the ministry's consent, we see that this process will last again, but in this whole thing, it must be all of the units of local self-government that I think are most interested and can be most effective because they have the best insight into the need for agricultural land and their population, and then the county and certainly the ministry. I also think of good people as being able to limit municipal councils and city councils to the maximum area that will be leased to natural and legal persons because I really remember with us some situations where individuals received hundreds of acres of rent and then under-employed or employed on black and small produce and in fact many of them used this lease to get incentives and there was no extreme impact. Then, surely, it is good that this highest acceptable price is twice as high because those who offer a higher price obviously have no good intentions and threaten the local population in this regard. I also well estimate that the advantage is given to agricultural economies that are listed in the register as well as the agricultural holding, meaning family farms that are listed in the taxpayers' register so that they do not actually buy land or hire those who do not have a basic activity. It is certainly to point out that if they meet these previous conditions, those dealing with livestock will have the advantage of raising years of plantations and vegetables and with incentives that need to follow but I would also say advisory services or our farmers need it, it is extremely necessary here but inspection services are needed. I think that we will improve the situation in food production as our own, and then there will be a more favourable situation around imports and exports, and as our colleague Lončar would often say that we are importing garbage, I would say that we are importing a lot of non-quality food and indeed all these measures that now and these amendments of the law should certainly contribute to more production and we know that our food is safer than what we import. I would just refer here to Article 7 which says that the right to purchase has a natural and legal person and then are all listed as family and agricultural economies still. And now additional criteria are that the previous tenant is the owner, bordering the land for sale and in the last place and lastly they are the owners of built production facilities such as meat, milk, eggs and as well as persons involved or intending to deal with livestock. I would certainly put them in one of the higher priorities than they are in this article. I would also refer to Article 15, where it is said that the concession within the jurisdiction of the State that the championships have persons who have so far had a contract or were owned by that land I am of the opinion that this should not in any way be unconditionally a right but that there really should be one real programme that guarantees one quality production as well as what was done in the previous period. But what I find very important in this is that the owners, means the owner or the tenant of a farm that, with the land that is given in the concession, makes the technological whole of it your advantage because it really happened in practice that people make farms or something after that can't get land. And so there are and their activity becomes very questionable. And I would also refer to Article 9 which in one part certainly is good where it says that if the application is submitted by an educational institution for the purposes of its work in the field of agriculture that it can be a free contract, but there is also another part that can be sold by direct contract if the applicant offers and adds proof that such sales is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I think that maybe more specifically, it should be arranged, and all in all I support the amendments to the law and I consider it as one important contribution to improving agricultural production, harmonising imports and exports and all other things that are related to agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35122	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ivica Clem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35123	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, for those of us who come from rural areas, this law is of particular importance, and any improvement of the Law on Agricultural Land by citizens who deal with agriculture, the peasants living in the countryside will welcome it anyway. Here, colleagues and colleagues have pointed out on several occasions that there are many more unsettled and unsettled things to be done, and above all, I am referring to the return of land under the Law of Denationalisation, which is a great burden for each unit of local self-government. We are in the plan and the programme of availability, all units of local self-government have reserved those areas, and it is not possible to define the return of land to those who were taken from the same land during the Yugoslav rule. Of course, we absolutely support any improvement in the Law and, among other things, deadlines that are binding on local self-government units. In this section, it is also important to take care of specific areas, areas covered by the war because, unfortunately, we still have a good part of the agricultural area that has not yet been demined, and a good part of these areas is being processed but units of local self-government cannot consider it a demining area until they have obtained a demining certificate. These deadlines will speed up the country-owned agricultural land settlement process, which I am absolutely sure of, and will contribute to the harmonisation of a cadastre and grantovnica within as soon as possible or as soon as possible, because a good part of the land, agricultural land, is not yet in line between the cadastre and the grantovnica, and there are rarely any different data that we receive from one or another institution. When it comes to concessions as binding deadlines for units of local self-government, I think it would be very correct for the Ministry of Agriculture to solve the land or the competitions for that land that the units of local self-government had foreseen as available through the concession. It is precisely because large agricultural companies or companies or stronger family farms that have their own economic programmes and projects need some assurance that they will be able to be users of that agricultural land for a certain period of time. In many municipalities in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County, Vukovar-Srijem County has opened a tender of two-year-olds, ten years of leases and one part of local self-government units has implemented a plan and a programme of agricultural land availability and solved this part of the problem. But there are still those units of local self-government that weren't in a position to solve the problem of land that they predicted for, through their plan and programme of availability, through the model concessions. I believe that the ministry should also have one binding deadline in which time should be called, a decision should be taken and contracts signed with the best bidders. Finally, these amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land will help local self-government units, and some will also encourage those who have not designed to develop their own plan and programme for the availability of agricultural land because I believe that local self-government units are the most interested in mastering the space that is in their territory. I support these amendments and amendments to the law, and I hope that in the near future we will have the opportunity to discuss the new Agricultural Land Act again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35124	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35125	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here it is pleasant to be in the hall today when changes and, in fact, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land actually encounters a general agreement and there is no speaker who would have any major objection to the proposed changes clearly, and in most areas where the law is not actually being touched or spoken. I would just remind how difficult it was at that time when we started preparing for such a law to even think about privatization or better about selling a state country that became state in 1991 in one way or another because we called in every possible ugly way that it was a new commission, confiscation and so on, however, we justified that in the general seizing of conversion and agricultural land in the same way do not alienate, that yet the state was succesfully beginning to dispose of it and we agreed, in fact it was such a law that it was actually implemented by the decentralised of our local self-governments and here finally the obstacles are here before us. We saw the need to change, but the announcements were that in fact this Law did not go in the right sense and criticise me, some of whom we represented this goal that, in fact, the fundamental determination of this country was the privatisation of agricultural land, the family agricultural household, and thus set it up to be an integral part of the European Union today as well as across the border. We were saying that it was a small pebble to adapt our agriculture and that we had to adapt that segment too. Of course we didn't have the illusion that it was easy to do and the obvious and the pronoun, and this ministry saw that there were actually a lot of obstacles ahead, a lot of obstacles to be overcome on this road. We were aware that the local community was not equipped in the way it should be done, but we thought it was most natural for it to be available because it was given to her on the ground and she already knows both the spirit and any way to put that agricultural land into operation. Which is why we didn't train the service at that first moment, which is why we didn't go into measurements, and that's the state measure that sometimes Empress Teresa didn't know what year it did to us that it was the state measure that the catastrophe and the garland were about the same. I'm talking about that Austro-Hungarian system. Because after that, there was no change. Which is why the state didn't take over as the owner of that land. I'm now wondering why everyone's bile on each other now who hasn't done it and why he hasn't done it. The owner hasn't done anything with his land for 14 years now and now under duress we force him to make a part of the program within a month. And that if he doesn't make it go higher instance to run that process. It is unacceptable that natural resources such as land agricultural land are not a function. And it's a sin and we all have to agree to it. I am personally and now expressing one reserve that even now it will not only help us with such provisions of the law and certain services that would do so in that time, because I think it is too short-term. And I don't think we've made one more commitment to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry where I claim it's a rock of interference and a rock of stumbling. Because mostly the programs local communities make if they're not in line with the great powers on the ground don't pass in the ministry. Because it's still a string of big ex-chips with the current administration. No, I'm not. But I know there's still a problem with that. And it would be good if the unit of the local administration made a programme by law that the ministry should also, within an appropriate time frame, be written to inform them of the acceptance and non-acceptation of the programme, of changing or supplementing, and not that nothing in the programme is actually done after four, six months. And then it can now be called the obstruction of our highest body that hasn't done its part of the job. And that's why it would be good for the local self-government to commit the ministry to do its part of the job in the day-to-day. If the family household is the cornerstone of agricultural production and our strategy speaks of it then there is no dilemma for changing or supplementing rather than only strengthening such households in terms of obtaining leases, concessions, or sales. It is illusory to expect a large area of large land complexes to be sold within this short period of time, as this land is only followed by the construction of cadastrian and grant books. It is easy to detect the owner, but the owner is not easily disfellowshipped, he needs legal proceedings to make the land available to him or her. And that the other owner would have acquired that property. In the HSS, I specifically insisted on that part of the lease when one means a tenant enters into the property to carry out all those obligations, detecting particles, it should be allowed to fix and grant books and become the owner of that land. If the local community does not have funds and has such local communities, it would not rent or purchase grant books and become the owner of that land. And which of his programs agreed if it's of interest to produce meat, milk or I don't already know which culture. So a farm was built. Because we have experience that people have rented short-term leases and that after a certain amount of time and spent their own resources to clear the land for the excavation of the canals, and a hundred other things on the roads. Made them run out of rent. Because so far it's been a valid decision that the most offered price is the one that dictates the tenant. It's being fixed and it needs to be welcomed absolutely in this law. And that's the intensity of actually not being able to put one price past economic logic. That someone who has funds independent of the program or I don't know what he owns and then dictates the availability of that land and use at the expense of the native population. Or agricultural producers that are of interest to us. I personally must say that as I listen to the debates that I am pleased to have this debate that we have all actually accepted both the programme and the strategy for the development of agriculture in a way that the family household is the foundation. To rely on it all production, we have agricultural production primary that we miss and especially these secondary meanings, the processing industry that needs to be trained. And that we are finally thinking that this move, too, is actually made clear that we are not turning Croatian agriculture to some left, right, or I don't know which leads. It's actually that the fundamentally determined that property must have a tenant is also a provision in this law that only improves the way to acquire time and so on. So I say, despite all the reflections that an individual of the sea has to have, we must agree that this time the law is a fundamental law that we are actually discussing on the right track. That he must give the results in the long term positive results in this regard and if I clearly have no illusions and do not think that he solves the situation in agriculture completely or that he would give answers to all of our concerns. Here in this sense I join the absolute support of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Agricultural Land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35126	Thank you very much. It's the MP's turn. And we have one correction to Mr. Mato Stimac's incorrect quote here.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that the ministry is what brake it is in the opening of the competition. First of all, I just fixed one thing. So the Ministry has been sending rushes to local self-government units, out of 144 sent 98, they haven't responded at all. Only 8 delivered new programs. And when it comes to the decision to call the competition, what you said the Ministry of Brake acts as the local powers say. Since 122 decisions, the Ministry has positively solved 89 by 8.3. 28 contests in the paper and only 5 were rejected. Cause of lack of documentation. Which means it's not the Ministry that's holding back. 89 solved, 28 in progress, and only five rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35128	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Ivana Sucec the Trakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a coincidence that I'm right above Mr. Kolar. We come from Koprivnica Križevci County where I suppose the situation is a little different than it is in another part of the country. Because we have a large population per square metre in general. And a large number of producers on a small number of agricultural land practically war for the country and on the ground. And we had regrettably that the media also transmitted physical conflicts for a number of reasons. So also because of the wrong work of the former ministry and because of the indetermination of the law, so it happened to us that I am going to go a little historically to explain the same conditions that we are in right now, and that is why I welcome especially these provisions that will therefore improve land availability. It happened to us that in a good part of the municipalities, programmes were adopted in which Article 67 of the existing law was not respected, therefore, not reserved areas for concessions for large ones. And based on that, such programmes should not have been approved by the ministry, they were agreed. The land was divided, therefore, by new tenants and they were not taken into possession. For reasons I don't talk to you now because I don't have time in 10 minutes to explain it all. The former Mr. Secretary knows exactly what this is about. So, based on knowledge from the field because as head of the municipality and few of us here today spoke here, Mr. Kolar is the same I also see a little problem differently. So, apart from the fact that some municipalities may be pummeling most of them have made a good programme and passed it to the ministry but the ministry twice wastes the whole process, because first you have to send the Ministry consent to the program, second time you have to send the tender back to consent so you can sign contracts with the tenants. So I personally advocate that every plot where ownership relations are solved is not leased but sold to future owners because only when someone owns it has reason to invest in land and achieve maximum yields, which is once again the general social well-being and shared profit. I would just remind us all together that no matter how good the law this will be, of course, the same excellent, we are inventive both as a people and as individuals within that law find the maximum opportunities to make for ourselves the best, not for the community. And respecting only the form I ask myself, so I expect the ministry to also through implementing regulations and also through an inspection that will be set up to see what it is possible to do to make this detail, which, I agree with Mr. Kolar formal, because you have a situation that legal category, and is not a legal entity, means a family agricultural economy, it is not a legal entity, it is one descriptive category, assumes that it consists of family members. Unfortunately, you have a situation in the same agricultural holding that you have five householders enrolled, so in one household you have five OPGs and then you come to the equality of the natural person = the agricultural economy. The other thing is the possibility of maneuvering with a residence, with a residence and with a seat. Who and how will control what is now happening, I'm talking about a war for every square meter of land, that someone is reporting a stay in the area of 8 municipalities in one county, for example. how will you control whether he resides there or not. It's possible to do it physically through electricity bills, through the payment of communal fees, but we don't have qualified services, we don't have the possibility of that control, and it happens to us, and then there's a war between those I'm about to say, they think they have a right because they live through five generations in the area where they're now selling a country that was taken from them 60 years ago, so now they've been working it out, and someone who's got money smuggling, I'm going to be very open, or buying cattle in Romania and reselling it for 8 months. Because we had the situation that recently the same stimulation for the Romanian and Croatian calf was born in the Croatian stable is equal, which is out of mind, and yet this minister is slightly different to edit it. So you had this situation that on one truck Romanian calves could earn a little Punto, it didn't buy Punto money he put aside and now can buy land. And we have a situation in our county that are numbered now five times the initial price, and by limiting the price to a double price you will again get that price as a constant and single price. So twice the price, I assure you will be the only price at which you will be trafficked, speaking for our county, country. Why? Because no one will dare give a kuna a higher price than twice as much because it will not be offered, at that risk no one will go to you, but no one will give a fair price less than a double price because they will all strive, so that will be the price at which they will be traffic. So we don't have that price scale, but we'll have one prescribed and set price. This is kind of my contribution to implementing this law that I welcome, and I'm going to vote for it. Of course, I agree with all my colleagues, but I'm just pointing out what's going on in our practice today. And I'm going to remind us of all the provisions that we've made in all the Parliaments that people have perverted. From the fact that when we brought in that no one in the tax administration should have, in the family of the wider accounting firm, people broke up and formally continued living together in the same household, I'm not going to talk about buying apartments and everything else. And I repeat today we need to find a mechanism in which there, this relationship between the family economy, the household member, the natural person and the register to find a balance and the real state to agree with the formal one. Because everyone can apply to one hectare as a household and use all those benefits which is not good, nor statistical, because then the data distorts the image that is real, and it's not good or economic. So things happen that aren't right. I would be very pleased, therefore, if all the tenders were to last as long as those decisions were to be made, since even now we have a series of those who are waiting in the ministry, I hope they will get the consent these days, because the seed of corn begins. With 1.5. all tenders should be completed, up to 1.5. because this is the last time you need to shine, right, corn fields and all that goes. So with you all together, I expect further control of the implementing rules and additional incentive to introduce order, such as flour stamps and everything else. And I see this one way of introducing order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35130	Thank you very much. We have one correction and one replica. Correction Mr. Ivan Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35131	Well, here's just a fellow comforter. If there was a problem with getting consent from the old ministry, I've asked this Mr. Secretary and his team ten times the question of getting an answer, but six months apart from oral persuasion nothing was done. So let this be an incentive to the Ministry to solve this case and I'll be pleased. Just one item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35132	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Bozidar Pankeretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35133	Thank you very much. So maybe from the discussion of colleague Ivana that I've known for a long time and we're sharing these problems that have been made it would be possible to conclude that in any way, I haven't even spoken yet don't replicate, you don't know what I'm going to say, no, wait, so I'm going to say maybe there's going to be something for the replica. ... Well, I wouldn't want to get involved in these relationships that are especially in St. John's and the relationships that, perhaps, are within party relations in that part and especially not those of others, but in any case, I'll always stand for it, and I think we've implemented it maximumly. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it is also very clear in this law that a certain technology must have a certain advantage in agricultural land. Unfortunately I will never take it personally if a farm is built, and that farm is one specific capacity, whether it is social, whether it is private in it is invested some Croatian money. And now that farm of two thousand or I don't know how many thousand pieces of cattle to leave without a single square metre of agricultural land I think it's very questionable. This is something that is still being modified by this law, and in the future, it must certainly be taken into account that our cattlemen, who are also stressed here, get the advantage because only by this added value will we be able to be competitive and the farmers will be able to survive on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivana Sucec-Thrakostane's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35135	We're going to disappoint our dear friend and sit well, Mr Pancretic, because I'm going to surprise him very much. All three parties holding power at the General Council of St John's Frog and SDP and the HSS and HDZ unanimously made a decision on the selection of the best tenants of the future, sent to the ministry and I also expect confirmation from the ministry. So there's no party problem here. So I was talking about the general rural problems that we all need to solve together, and I think this is above party, all party and crucial issue of agriculture development in total. So I repeat, throughout our county, I'm not talking about party problems, I'm talking about non-compliance with article 67 of the existing Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35136	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35137	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. As I said about the GMO law, I can also say now about this law that these two laws will in many ways determine Croatia's future. As with that law, there was one great consensus I'd like to have here. This is not about ideology, any ideological contradictions, but really something concrete and something I said will determine Croatia's future. Agricultural land is the basis of agricultural production, i.e. food production. This agricultural land is getting smaller in Croatia and in the world each year, the production area is getting smaller and the population is growing. Unfortunately, we're not, but we're also reducing production surfaces. In Croatia, there are slightly less than 3 million and 200 thousand hectares of agricultural land is slightly less than a million and 100 thousand hectares of state land. It's exactly the state land that's the biggest problem in our country. A little less than 1400 acres of that land is, it's enjoyed by various combinations. Let's remember here in 1991 when this Croatian Parliament passed by consensus a unanimous law to be former so-called. social land turns into state land, it was one of the biggest, perhaps one of the greatest decisions this Parliament has made or rather it belongs to several decisions that were capital for our country and for our people. I would be happy to do so now, that all those who have something to say, that everyone who understands this problem and especially science and profession to say that we can do as well as we can solve this problem better. To be honest, it should also be said that the existing law, which was passed on 11 May 2001, was a major shift from the previous period and from the present situation despite this unfortunate and clumsy article 67. We've dealt with this problem with several laws by then, but then we put it in one place. As time goes on here, we have also come to see that this law needs, that it too needs certain changes and additions. It's my opinion that this is just a temporary solution and that at the most recent time in a year, a year and a half to a maximum of two years, we're going to have to pass a whole new law because it's going to make us a set of circumstances. The truth of these amendments and additions to the law does not significantly change the philosophy of the existing law but corrects certain injustices and illogicalities. You see, a little while ago, I said there's a little less than 400,000 acres of land in the combinations. We started selling those combinations now. We know that these combinations were made when unfortunately they were created because they were some strange times there from 48th and beyond, that these combinations were created at the robbery. That land was robbed by someone, and those combineds kept it and held it to the day of today. Again for the truth, one part of that country that is now enjoyed by these combineds, they bought from nursing homes, one part of the country has been brought into culture, but most of that country is a robbed country, and we need to sort it out. Here we have our country for 15 years, but the property legal relations on this issue have not been resolved and it will be one big rock of interference and a stumbling block in the future and, as I said before, we will soon have to pass a whole new law that will regulate the problem of agricultural land. We have a big problem with unprocessed land. I also told the Parliament's last meeting, so I'm going to do it here for a second and I'm going to do it again. The country is everywhere in the world of national and state interest of paramount importance. As I see it, I don't have much time, of course, but I have an almost elaborate complete scheme, how to solve the problem of unprocessed land in Croatia and the problem of rounding the land. We know that there are more than 18 million plots in Croatia. The average area is below 2.9 is now down somewhere and maybe 2.7 hectares. So unprocessed land because it is in the state and national interest, all those people who have this state must offer to buy that land at market price, not as much as we had in history, but at market price. If people don't, those who own that land, if they don't sell that land for any reason, then the next law is passed every year that would impose a higher tax on those people who don't agree to it than those people who process their country and who are ready to round up. Why? It's an American model. This was done by the Austrians, by the Germans after World War II, because it was a state and national interest. And this is how our biggest problem is that we have this raw land and then this is what happens. In order to speak of this law even better, we must finally define a family economy different from the region to the region. We're talking about the family economy, and we still don't know what it is. For example, in wartime production, whether it's a property of 50, 150, 200 or more hectares. What's that in fruit growing? Is that 5, 10, 15 or 20 acres? In vineyard production, etc. etc. When we define the family economy, then we will also set certain deadlines in the existing law. As for the sale of land here I would be very sharp and very subtle because the country is a national treasure. The country, regardless of what the existing law says about it, but many things have been left behind for negotiations with the European Commission, would simply prohibit the sale of land to foreigners. Totally forbid it. And when it comes to concessions, both foreigners and domestic natural and legal persons would limit time. It's limited here, but we have one range of 20 to 40 years. I would limit this to 15 years maximum in ratareous production, and in the case of multi-annual pestilences, for example vineyards, orchards and other multi-annual cultures for a maximum of 25 years. Why? Today, technology in agricultural production as usual has gone so far as to deplete simple land. Here's the last 20, 25 years in America we have so-called. Preserving land because it is being destroyed by extremely advanced agrotechnology, too much is being introduced into mineral fertilisers and all kinds of pesticides, and of course there is one pollution. The only way that this land can be preserved for ten years. We now have 150 acres in Slavonia, I would reduce it to 100 acres. The western part, for example Zagreb County is 100 hectares, I would at 60 hectares. Why? Today we have people who have money and if he has money he will buy land, personally if I had money I would invest in the country, because the value of the country in Croatia will come because Croatia is extremely pedologically looking fertile, and in addition to other countries in Europe and in the world Croatian country, the agricultural country I speak of it, is completely ecologically clean and of course whoever has money can happen to buy a few, we have 150 hectares we know that it was used in times of communism and then the father has 10 hectares because he was 10 hectares of land maximum, so the older son, so the other son, so one sister-in-law, so another sister-in-law, so the wife, etc. There was always something wrong, and here we may find that one who has a country buys a lot of these countries, so it may happen to us, to be picturesque, to have farmers and feudals again in our Croatia. That can't happen, and this is exactly what's connected to it. And again, I underline, we finally need to define what a family economy is, in which production is what size it is, and how profitable this family economy can be in a particular production. I would personally resolve everything by this Law, regardless of what anyone will say, it is a directive of the European Union, etc., etc. I would absolutely leave absolutely nothing for negotiations with the European Commission or anything to regulate, as there are now certain regulations and sublaws, here is just one more sentence, but I would now sort it out. Why, I have already said it several times, because it is still one of the greatest Croatian treasures, Croatian agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35138	Thank you very much. We've got corrections. First Mr. Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35139	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague, Lonchar, who said that a consensus has been reached on the final proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. Consensus not reached. Namely, only 3 clubs, the HDZ Club, the SDP Club and the national minorities were for this final proposal while the other clubs were against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35140	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic, also a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague, Lonchar, cited an incorrect assumption. I might have complemented it in that part when he said there are no restrictions on those counties that have according to our standards and criteria that amount to 150 hectares in Slavonia or 100 hectares here. We have, fortunately, one possibility for municipalities and cities to get below, that's the maximum, but they can also determine 60 hectares and give consent to that. Therefore, that possibility was left if the municipalities and cities estimated that there was a great demand for agricultural land and that it was not in the area, then the municipalities and cities were obliged to do so in that part, so I think it was a complementary correction in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35142	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government and colleagues and fellow MPs. Following the adoption of the Agriculture Act, the Agricultural Land Act adopted this House in 2001, which outlined guidelines and principles of agrarian policy. The Agriculture Act defines the family economy as the holder of primary agricultural production. It becomes a basic production form, but also a burden bearer to achieve the objectives of the outlined agrarian policy. And the objectives are: to produce enough food for the needs of the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, to produce an extra for the ino market at competitive prices, and to achieve high-ranking targets in view of the current situation, it is not possible to achieve with a family economy whose average property at that time was 2.5 hectares of agricultural land. The basic assumption of training to achieve the objective is to create a larger economy, which assumes significantly larger agricultural areas. As about 400,000 farmland was in state ownership at the time, the Agricultural Land Act regulated a way of transforming ownership from state to new acquirer of ownership rights. The law provides for three forms of availability. It's a sale, a lease and a concession. In the long term, the most desirable form is sales because the family economy is permanently guaranteed by a fundamental resource without which there is no development and no vision of the future. The legislator's intention was to pass a law that would rest on the principle of social justice and the principle of domicileness. For the purpose of protection, the two principles cited in 29.1.2002 this Assembly adopted criteria and conditions for the implementation of the privatisation of agricultural land. The measures are limited areas that one family economy, one farmer and one agricultural legal person can buy from the country. In this way it is possible for individuals, it is impossible for individuals to become absolute masters of the entire region, and the host population should probably be superiors to them. According to these standards, municipalities and cities themselves were able to further reduce the surface maximum by their decisions, if they consider it useful and necessary for citizens of local self-government units. And these are good solutions, although they are cast out by the fierce criticism of those who have been disturbed by this restriction, of course for selfish reasons. The criteria have further protected the principle of domicileness, as the priority criterion is the prescribed residence of the customer, and this regulation has come under heavy criticism, but I am glad that these basic provisions have been accepted and now, in the form of amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, we are now offered to apply these restrictions and to the rental institute. I think that's good, and that's what we wanted to do with the standard. In the original proposal, the same criteria were to apply to both sales and leases, but during the debate and after the amendments submitted from the final text, the lease was missing, which was not good. Furthermore, the criteria were intended to protect itself from speculant offers and therefore it is prescribed that if the highest price offered exceeds the double amount of the initial price, such an offer is considered invalid. And this provision is transposed into the Agricultural Land Act and applied to both leases and concessions, and that's good. As a representative in the second term, I am pleased that today we are getting confirmation from today's worst critics that the concept was good for us and that it was in the function of achieving the common good. As early as 2001, I said in my debate that we were opening a process by law that could not be completed in 2.3 years. We were expecting difficulties, we were expecting resistance, but everything that has happened since 2001 was not in the interest of people but was a political stubbornness, no matter how socially harmful. But in the end, there was a confession that it would probably cease to be a political spite that was identical to that of our shock, and our shock is intruding, and now I won't do it the way I want it to be. We gave the right to decide and make available to state land to municipalities and cities because we felt that this would be the least abuse because in small areas everyone knows everything. This is a very responsible job, and this burden of responsibility must be borne by those who are interested in the proper and fair process. Unfortunately, some municipalities did not have the strength to deal with the problems that arise. Some did not want to take that burden because it is easier to listen to the minister often mention Mommy. Better a minister than a chief and community councilman. Part of the community didn't do anything, believing in the promises of the type "when we come to power, we'll share the land with the peasants". And now, of all these expectations, nothing, even on the contrary, is the recognition of a good concept that was severely criticised until yesterday. A part of the municipalities accepted responsible work, completed it, and today there are family economies that, with smart agricultural policy, can achieve the objectives set out in the Agriculture Act. Of course, I can't forget those municipalities that put forth a lot of effort and resources, did everything they had to do, but the process was stopped because they've been waiting for the Ministry of Agriculture's consent for months. Now, that's inadmissible. Does this mean that the Ministry of Agriculture has no or no vision of directing Croatian agriculture? I allow that there may be certain shortcomings that the municipalities need to remove but this is not resolved by the Ministry's silence, so make your contribution to the rapid transformation of the ownership of agricultural land, as this is the assumption of agricultural development in Croatia. No small problem is the unsettled land books and the discrepancies of books with real condition. This is a serious problem that needs to be solved by the state. I am aware that 26m euros have been committed in time to address this situation, but the problem still exists and further funding is needed. I think it is not good that Article 25 is changed in a way that the professional business in relation to the sale process is entrusted to the administrative department, the administrative body of the municipality or the city responsible for agriculture. This change is acceptable only to the city, large and strong municipalities. My colleagues, we have municipalities with the chief and possibly two employees. Such municipalities are not able to carry out the professional and complex tasks arising from the procedure. That is why the current law places it in the jurisdiction of the county office for the economy. I don't think it's a good thing that the county's headship is now authorized to bring in a disposal program for a municipality that didn't do it on its own. The possibility of abuse and malfeasance is opened, I repeat, no one can act more rightly and justly than the municipalities themselves who know the situation. And finally, let's not expect this law to end all the difficulties and problems that have been shown in the implementation, they remain and they are stronger which is the weaker political will to implement. After these amendments, there will be no longer a completely unsustainable objection to the non-implementability of the existing Law, and in the absence of an excuse, there remains only a responsibility that quickly turns into guilt. If there had been political will, there should have been no delay in the process of transformation of ownership. Since criteria and conditions for the implementation of privatisation of agricultural land are not regulated in transitional provisions to suspend certain provisions from application, I think we should intervene to the standards because we will be in a situation where we will have parallelisation, on the one hand, of a law governing certain matter in a different way, we will come into a dilemma as to how and what we apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35144	Thank you very much. There's one correction, Mr. Mato Stimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the alleged distinguished colleagues as well as my colleague Kolar, where it's said that the Ministry is holding back consent. I suppose you were thinking about the Brod-Posavia County from which you come and where you say the requested Cernik one got, Davor one got, the Lower Adriatics got one, the upper willows got one, only Sibinj requested did not get for the reason he was on the part of the land schools. So what is requested in Brodia is the Ministry's approval, with the exception of Sibinj where it is located in the area of the school's land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35146	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Damir Spanish, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief, given that this is the end of the debate, very briefly I'm going to look back normally on what area I come from, these are zones of special state interest. I could talk about previous problems of obtaining consent for a long time because my city waited two and a half years to gain consent a few years ago. NO, when certain changes occurred in Zagreb, the programme was accepted within a few months. I come from the county where they've been accepted by all units of local self-government, so all 10 programs that I especially enjoy and most importantly that people use farm areas. What makes me particularly happy in this new law is especially that part of the lease where the lease is part of the contract, the economic programme forms an integral part of the contract, and if the contract is not implemented, the Ministry has taken care to control the implementation of the programme based on which the land was leased. The same applies to concessions and my personal commendation to the Ministry for those parts of the law. And now what I would particularly like to talk about is abandoned land, in areas of special state care, I hope soon and interest, where the town of Pakrac, Lipik and a whole series of local administration units are in 9 Croatian counties. I will certainly support the amendment of my fellow parliamentary representatives Mr. Štimec and Mr. Fiolic, to Article 10, which is a good amendment because it concerns the problems of the terrain. Much of the agricultural land is abandoned, not processed, we know that we even have the Law on removing ambrosia, so you can edit one agricultural land and besides you have 100 hectares of abandoned land and you are practically in vain trying to edit your agricultural land. And not to talk about the spread of diseases on plants, etc. Another big problem is that this agricultural land has passed for years as we say in Slavonia, so agricultural land passes into forest land. When someone is three years after the decision of the city council based on the local authorities' tender, we will no longer have an increase in forest land or so on. Sikara than we'll have quality farmland. I'm not going to bring up a whole series of good examples in the area where I come from. And eventually, in the amendment itself, that is 10.b of funds will be used on the dedicated context of the city budget, so I propose that it be for lending subsidies, incentives, especially for the scholarship of young experts from the field of agriculture, so these are our agronomies, because the units of local self-government cry out for such experts in areas where I come from and certainly commend the proposed Law and certainly will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35148	Thank you very much. Finally, State Secretary Mr Dragan Kovacevic, at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35149	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs. In fact, we listened carefully to the debate there were also proposals for certain amendments to be considered but on the basis of those arguments, etc., I believe and accept, however, I remained obliged after that replica, following the opening presentation, as regards the honourable representative of Pecek, who said that certain municipalities should not be accused, etc. It was thus clearly stated that some municipalities did not accept the responsibility assigned to them by law and did not act in accordance with those obligations of the Law and that this caused us great problems in the implementation of the Law. And in that situation, we're the only ones who've been handling our impressions, not just our numbers. So, only by numbers. If more than a hundred municipalities have not proposed land-based programmes, then we have a problem. And that's the problem we've identified, and we're trying to solve it with this law. Whether or not we're going to solve it completely, I don't know, but in any case, the law is going to gain flow and these farming processes are going to speed up. As far as the new Agricultural Land Act is concerned, we are aware that we will have to go to a new law in which we will not only have this definition to speed up the availability of how to speed up privatisation, but also with a great emphasis on how to protect agricultural land as a national treasure and to preserve it as such. I say we consider these amendments. We listened carefully to the debate and showed ourselves to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35150	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35151	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. The 281st debate on the text of the law is over. We have a number of amendments, I would like Secretary of State Dragan Kovacevic to show himself about certain amendments to the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35152	Mr. President, honourable MPs. First amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35153	We'll take our order, Mr. Secretary. Amendment number one. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35154	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35155	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment 2. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35156	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35157	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. 3. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35158	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35159	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. 4th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35160	4. is not accepted because the proposal is intended to enable these other institutions that we have defined, so the purchase of agricultural land by contract but on their own request not by offer.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35161	The chairman of the Florian Boras Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35162	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think the rapporteur on this point under the proposal of this law is the Honorable Vice President Leko, so I'd like to ask him to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35163	Mr. Easy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35164	Thank you very much. We will withdraw this amendment if members of the HDZ do not object, because they are the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35165	You have authority as rapporteur and as vice president, in accordance with...
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35166	I don't have the authority of the president. I'm gonna have to consult.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35167	You are now in office as president.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35168	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35169	Amendment 4 withdrawn. Thank you very much. 5. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35170	The Legislative Committee, it is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35171	It becomes an integral part of the law. 6th representative of Mate Štimec and Stjepan Fioliæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35172	This amendment is accepted but in the amended form, as the amendment applies to Article 2 and not to Article 10a, and in Article 10a, the word "owner" is replaced by the word "owner" and in paragraph 2 "agricultural" is replaced by the word "agricultural" and also the word "agricultural" is replaced by the word "borrower".
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35173	Proposer of the amendment, consensual with such a change? Thank you. In this amended form, the amendments become an integral part of the Law. 7th Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35174	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35175	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 8. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35176	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35177	It's an integral part of the law. Nine. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35178	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35179	It becomes an integral part of the law. 10th Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35180	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35181	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 11th Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35182	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35183	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 12th Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35184	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35185	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 13. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35186	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35187	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35188	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35189	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 15th of the same Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35190	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35191	Thank you, it's becoming an integral part of the law. The 16th representative of Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35192	16 refers to the same as the adoption of the Legislative Committee, so we ask Mr. Shirtz to.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35193	Amendment number 16. It's an amendment. What? Dear Representative Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35194	If I may, Mr. President, only, does it have to end with the amendments because I'd like to say a few sentences with regard to it?
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35195	When we're done, you will. 17. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35196	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35197	It's the same decision of the Committee, and then this amendment is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35198	Thank you very much, so in this modified form, the amendment has been accepted. 18. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35199	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35200	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 19. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35201	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35202	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And the 20th Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35203	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35204	Thank you for becoming an integral part of the law. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since the government has accepted amendment number seven of MPs Josip Djakic, since he significantly changes the whole meaning of this law on behalf of the HSS Club, I am asking for a break 15 minutes before the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35206	Here you go, pal Cain. Stanku too. These two clubs are looking for a break, a break of 15 minutes. It's 3:25 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. On behalf of the HSS Club, I'd like an honorary representative, Ivan Kolar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35208	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So here's how much it takes for a representative or a representative and what work this should be awake in voting and... him and every amendment, and especially for the whole law, because it's possible for procedures to steal a mistake and that the purpose of the whole job and actually the effort we've put in place, and we agreed that we're on the right track to get the law in question into operation as soon as possible, as close as possible to the family household itself, and I think it's good that we intervened, I believe that the Secretary of State has an explanation for this. And for those of you who think we're wrong, I'd just remind you that the law in question means a law on agricultural land or a better way of saying three kinds of land available to the state in terms of and increasing the family household that it gives the championship to the domicile population, the possibility of rounding up property, renting, selling concessions, and I think at this stage, while it's so hot to make mistakes that we're being robbed and the possibility of possibly mixing in one way or another would be fatal. So here's the HSS Club asking the Secretary of State to make this mistake if it's possible now to correct himself at this session, if not to let the government become manifest after, so that this law is really decided in the right way and that it is in a function that he has and the philosophy that he represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35209	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Cain was looking for a break on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35210	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, I am absolutely to sell land to peasants. However, I will also say that I will vote against this law. Why? Because the principle of domicileness is abolished on the basis of the amendment adopted. And what does that mean? That in Istria or not now, someone from Koprivnica will buy in the Primorje-Gorski County, Varazdin does not matter Dubrovnik, etc., and then it is not fair. Once again, the native population will be the population of Mr. Tomcic second row. So it's been in those rooms for 40 years, so it's going to be now. Tragedy is something else in this bill. That agricultural land, that there is no fence, that agricultural land must not be sold in one I don't know what appropriate time... It's an even bigger tragedy if the zones so-called. urbanized land, which someone will be able to sell later. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] On that land, gentlemen, someone's gonna get rich. It's now bought for 1.5 kuna, and the next day it'll be sold for 100 maybe 200 euros. And is it now that our cities, our municipalities, our state, are being put into a situation that if someone wants to in some area the next day doesn't matter where they are now in the Primorje-Goran County or Dubrovnik, Istria or some third country building the road, they'll have to buy what they're now "someone" under commercial conditions? If we're building an industrial zone, we're going to have to expropriate that land so we can build a few plants there, I don't know, or a kindergarten or something. Once again, gentlemen, we're going to be in a situation where something that we're going to give someone for one and a half kuna tomorrow is simply going to have to be bought for an enormous asset that this community simply doesn't have. No one's in this country against a rich peasant, I guess that's normal. But we're all going to turn one of these laws into a mechanism of mixing agricultural land. This Law can indeed be a perfidious blow to the so - called so - called Law. coastal counties. I'm not going to apostrophe Istria here, but among other things, Istria. So let's sell the land to the peasants. But if the next day needs a state, a local community, our municipalities, let those peasants who have acquired it in such a privileged way regain it under the same conditions as the state or local community. If someone there plantes a culture, an olive vine or a vineyard, then it's clear that they should pay for it. This is going to turn gentlemen into an extra decomposition in our society. Some in this country get, some just don't get through their whole lives, and that's not fair. If the average holding of farmers in the Republic of Croatia is 2.8 hectares, it is clear if we want to compete in the world that we will have to group this property because the average property in the European Union is 19 or more hectares. However, let us not simply do this in such a perfidious way. On the other hand, I also want to say that Istra is specific from 47 to 54 when there was an option that 120,000 people moved out of these areas, from 30 to 50% of the agricultural land is now owned by the state. So do you know what the surfaces are and what the next day with that land can happen? What move is all this about? It is located from Buje, Umag, Novigrad, Poreč, Rovinj, down to Pula and Medulin. So let's sell this land, but let's not make it the same. And I assure you that in a year's time in this country, it's going to happen and someone's going to be banging their heads off what he's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35211	Thank you very much. As a representative of the club, I was obliged to give you a break from the Rules of Procedure, but you simply used this after a break for discussion, and the debate on the text of the law is over. But good. I would like the Secretary of State of State, Dr Kovacevic, to point out that this proposal has been accepted by mistake that there has been an error in the amendment of the 7th Honored Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35212	We thank you for the intervention of representatives Božo Pankretić. In fact, we've now discussed and agreed. This is not about losing rights, so possible leases from other municipalities, it's about the order of priorities. And there's been a confusion about that, and we don't accept that amendment, so the spirit of the law will remain absolutely preserved.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35213	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, the applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35214	It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35215	Thank you. The amendment has been withdrawn. So, then Amendment 7 is no longer in play to say so. It's human to sin and it's human to correct a mistake. I am now voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. What's the score? I find that with 100 votes for, 13 abstentions and 3 against the proposed law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is in charge of delivering a report on the state of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament each year for the purpose of meeting the representatives." Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 114 votes for and 1 abstention, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35216	We move to the 7th item of the agenda _ Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 282. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Economy, Mr Dragan Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Just a brief introduction on the draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act. Namely, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law primarily create legal assumptions for the establishment of a fishing inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Namely, the Law on the establishment and operation of the central authorities of the State Administration requires the Ministry of Agriculture to take over from the State Inspectorate of inspection tasks relating to marine fisheries. In addition, the Internal Order Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture created a framework for the establishment of inspection supervision and would join the coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the control and protection of the Adriatic Sea, which therefore stem from the declaration of a protected ecological fishing zone. This is about harmonisations, gradual alignment with the European Union's fisheries gains. Consistent with the common fisheries policy, but we say gradually, because we hold that full harmonisation and full acceptance of these standards takes time to do so. It is a very complex problem, which will have social and political consequences with it. These amendments allow for more effective management of the biological wealth of the sea. The implementation of the international commitments undertaken. As well as improving the statistical monitoring of fishing effort. There is also a legal basis for regulating the transport of fish and other marine organisms. Furthermore, the proposal addresses in a more appropriate way the issue of the protection of various development stages of fish and other marine organisms by redefining the concept of specific habitats. The law also separates sports from recreational fishing, and creates assumptions for the gradual rerouting of the small category towards economic, or recreational fishing. In accordance with the practice of the Member States of the European Union, the law also lays down the adoption of a fisheries development programme by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which will apply for a period of 6 years. The funds collected on the basis of fees for fishing would also be directed through this programme to monitor the state of biological wealth of the sea and to improve fisheries. All according to the national programme for increasing fish production and consumption in the Republic of Croatia. They are components of the restoration and modernisation of the fishing fleet, as well as the construction of the infrastructure needed to establish the system, transport of fish and other marine organisms. Other marine organisms, so fishing ports, major markets and the like. What we consider to be important, therefore, and why it is proposed in an emergency procedure, is primarily to facilitate the work of a fishing inspection set up in the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35218	Thank you very much. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, president, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35219	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 20th session of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, with the Final Proposal. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Maritime Fisheries Act has been discussed by the Committee as a parent body. Following the opening statement of the proposal's representative, the Committee voted in favour of the proposal by a majority of votes to adopt that law by an urgent procedure. The members of the Committee are familiar with the opinion delivered by the Croatian Treaty on sports fishing at sea on that proposal of the law. In a comprehensive debate involving members of the Committee and representatives of professional associations and trade unions, most members supported the adoption of that law, primarily because it would allow better monitoring of the state of biological wealth of the sea and improve marine fisheries. At the beginning of the debate, the opinion and the proposal were made that this law should comply with the provisions of Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall conduct a preliminary hearing or at least not support the urgency of its adoption. It is proposed for the reason that the proposed law is incompatible with the Law on freshwater fisheries and the Law of the Sea and has a large number of irregularities. One of them is a vague definition of the fishing sea. However, that proposal was not accepted. In further discussion, it is stated that the same regime applicable to sports and recreational fishermen as regards the obligation to mark caught fish should be applied to small fish, as fish from such catches should not be placed on the market. It has also been pointed out that the law does not need to worry about fishing with an underwater rifle, since underwater fishermen are thus designated as the main devastationists of the fish fund. It is indicated that, in accordance with the law on sport and sport and recreation, activities carried out are considered to be organised for sport, improving health or recreation. Accordingly, recreational fishing permits should also be sold as part of a national sports alliance that organises fishing either as a sport or as a recreation. In the debate, the need for adequate normative regulation of the inheritance of the advantage has been indicated, as fishing vessels remain unused in the event of the death of the holder of the advantage. It is stated that the use of alacture species of fish is prohibited, but at the same time allows for the cultivation of alacture species of fish, and this is considered to be a sort of contradiction in the debate. It has been warned that better protection of the fish fund will be achieved through more effective inspection than by increasing penalties. Although it is in the debate to welcome the ban on fingertips and for the purpose of protecting their habitats, it is nevertheless proposed to consider the idea of making 10% of the coast on which the fingertips are located, in a concession with strictly prescribed conditions of carrying out such an activity. In the debate, he is concerned and concerned that the amendments and additions of this law are not sufficiently protected by the interest of Croatian fishermen, professionals and their families. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of this law five votes in favour and two abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35220	Thank you very much. Legislative Committee, rapporteurs vice president, respected representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vlad's representatives! The Croatian Parliament's Legislatives Committee discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries with the final draft law and submitted the following report after the debate. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal for an urgent procedure. On the very text of the final draft law, the Committee shall submit the following amendments. In Article 21 of the Law, the Committee proposes that it be deleted. In other words, the Committee proposes to delete Articles 51a and 51b of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act. Explanatory - the content of the additional articles does not constitute the matter to be prescribed by this law, especially as it lists transactions that are part of the business of the department of the competent state authorities. Namely, the introduction of an unspecified concept or form of co-financing of these activities is envisaged. Certain activities in the area of agriculture have the right to encourage and support but, in accordance with specific law, the same as the specific law, the regulated issues of associations and economic and interest associations. This Regulation shall enter into The Legislative Committee gives an amendment, proposes that paragraph 3 of the bill be deleted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The question has been settled when foreign citizens are able to fish sport fishing, so buy daily, multi-day or annual permits. In addition to those amendments, the Legislative Committee proposes and points to the need for further clarification and completion of certain provisions by proposing that the Proposer removes its amendments to the shortcomings that are indicated in these examples. Article 6 In relation to Articles 10 and 10, it is proposed to further consider the conditions and methods of small sport and recreational fishing. Namely, for all three types of fisheries, it is common that persons are required to be authorised and which can be caught at most five kilograms of fish per day. But the differences are significant, so for the caught fish more than one day small fishermen commit a violation for which a fine of 5 to 10 thousand kuna was prevented while the penalty for sports and recreational fishermen was prevented from thousands to 5 thousand kuna. It is also prescribed for small fishermen that fish can only be fished for personal purposes while such and similar provisions for sports and recreational fishermen are not available. Another difference is that this law frees people over 65 who have a residence on islands and islands, Peljesac Peninsula until this applies to persons who are engaged in small and sport fishing. Similarly, for small fishermen, zones where they can fish are established until it is not determined for recreational and sports fishermen. With regard to the marking of fish caught in sports and recreational fisheries, there is a provision to identify that fish in the event of its placing on the market. For fish caught in small fishing, however, there is no such provision, although those caught fish must not be placed on the market. As regards Article 11, it is indicated that the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 33 of the principled nature and that such prohibition should be contained in the general provisions of this Act, i.e. in Chapter I of the Law. In relation to Articles 11, 12, 18 and 20, it is necessary to harmonise the existing sublegal rules or to adopt new regulations in accordance with the amendments and amendments contained in those provisions of this proposal. Therefore, it is indicated that the text of the final draft law does not contain a provision which would oblige the competent minister to lay down rules for the adoption of which those provisions are authorised. Finally, in the opinion of the Legislative Committee, it is also necessary to develop an expression because different concepts and concepts are used for the same meaning. As an example, I quote fish traffic and fish traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35222	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. A SDP representative club, respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35223	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, we at the SDP Club believe that these amendments and additions to the Marine Fisheries Act should be discussed in the first reading. There is no reason to discuss this law by emergency procedure because the basic reason to establish an inspection that will carry out inspection of fishing inspections is actually somewhat accurate. By far, that part of the work has been carried out in accordance with Articles 3 and 12. The State Inspectorate Act. The State Inspectorate and these inspection operations are practically carried out. The only thing that would happen now is that these jobs would go to the authority to be carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry. For that reason, we feel that it would be far better for this law to conduct the debate in two readings because this reason is falling away. Secondly, when we have opened this issue, the question arises as to how opportune and acceptable it is to relocate inspection tasks from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, given the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry at the same time is a resolute ministry that monitors the implementation of the entire law. Therefore, the inspection work itself regarding law enforcement will actually be carried out by the ministry to examine whether certain parts of the ministry are working in accordance with what the law prescribes. The third reason why we should make the debate quite clear is that this law is not sufficiently socially sensitive. This law, respected colleagues and colleagues, tightens the penalties for marine fisheries offences and, at first sight, is somewhat and acceptable in view of the possible endangered species of fish in the Adriatic Sea or the disturbance of the ecological system or sea pollution but would like to remind us that such a range of penalties compared to those we have so far had if they have been too mild can be corrected in some ways. However, to increase the minimum in Article 74 by 5 times, the highest of 10 times, in Article 75 to increase the lowest by, by 15 times, the maximum of 30 times the penalty, in Article 76 to increase the lowest of 5 times and the highest of 10 times, then to increase the penalties, for example, in Article 77. Two and a half times and so on and so forth. The question arises first, in fact, what does it want to achieve. For example, if you take into account the fact that 10 times the penalty will also increase for those who place fish and other marine organisms which do not originate in economic fisheries, farming or imports, and if they do not comply with the prescribed conditions of Article 5 of this Act. You know which fish doesn't satisfy farming or import and for which, and for which a fine of 30 to 300 thousand kuna is prescribed for such physical and legal purposes, so you know about that little fisherman, sports and recreational fisherman. You know what it really means to prescribe such a punishment for a possible islander, and so, for an islander who will have in that part that it is not the only punishment but should be kept in mind that it is also a cumulative punishment because, with that punishment, the criminal, monetary penalty provides for Article 37, which amends Article 81, that the infringements of these provisions are, and also in Article 74 of that which I have quoted earlier, point 1. takes away the caught fish and other marine organisms, take away the tools, the fishing gear that has been committed, regardless of who the owner is. That means both that belt and the boats and everything else will be taken away. Well, you know, if someone wants to make a war with the population on our islands and on the coasts, then he's well prescribed these provisions on the one hand, or on the other hand he's made provisions that won't be implemented. Some of those two, the third one's gone. I personally think this is completely unrealistic, that this doesn't make sense, that for these reasons, it's really right to the SDP counsel club when it warns of the fact that these provisions are infringing completely social and so on. Of course, if you look at it in the context of total changes then you'll actually see that the criteria for small fishing, sports and recreational fishing are very tightened, and at the same time it is actually in a certain way, so to speak, it seems like a compromise has been made with economic fishing and fishing. I have to say, at the SDP Representatives Club, it's just not acceptable. First, the question arises as to how it is possible that a fisherman must always have a fishing licence at sea, whether he performs it as a sports fisherman, a small or an economic fisherman. If, at the same time, there is an eyewitness and a register of fishermen, or all those who are, those who have issued the licence. I personally think there's still a little bit of that issue to solve. Secondly, Article 32 of our Constitution appears to be unconstitutional because here it is said that the right to purchase day, day or yearly licenses for sports fishing is owned by citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are members of the National Sports Fisheries Union at the sea of the Republic of Croatia. And what if they're not members? If it's about tourists who came down recreationally? Why can't they buy a license with a course of guidance that species and species can fish. I don't get it. In addition to how you plan to carry out this permit that all tourists who will appear during the summer, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9, 10th month on the Adriatic, yes, and which, whose children will come on a leash or along the waterfront and throw the hook away, how will you implement it? And the measures I've been predicting have been mentioned, rising from tens of thousands of kunas and beyond. That doesn't make any sense. It simply doesn't make sense and it won't be possible to implement it because it will cause a huge dissatisfaction on one side or if, if so, then the situation will happen that it will practically not, will not be implemented. Now, with that, that's the first thing. That's real. Secondly, we now have an additional difficulty. Exceptionally from the provision of paragraph 2, this Article of the daily and multiannual fishing authorisation at sea may also be sold to foreign nationals who have a membership card of the National Sports Fisheries Union at the sea of the Republic of Croatia of another country. Now, if you'll excuse me, that stranger who came on, on vacation and who, for recreational reasons, wants to deal with acting at sea, and doesn't want to keep any fish because he doesn't need to catch, comes back, but he's recreating, and he can't get a license if he's not, unless he's a member of the National Union of Someone, a country from which he came or our National Union. Well, I think there's a little bit of an exaggeration in all of this, and in such a situation, it's certainly necessary, things need to be a little bit different and of course we should ask a question in such a situation, in fact, what about the passed fishing test in the first place. And the question here is that you can't get any permission that you don't have a fishing exam that another man could understand that you're looking for anyone who wants to rejuvenate, either recreationally, whether they need to know really certain types of fish, their measures, lengths, when they reproduce and so on, how they protect themselves, after all, and that I protect myself from some fish that can be dangerously attached to the hot poisons that they can keep in their barbeds. If they take them off in such a order, I can understand it, but I can't understand it this way. This team says more extremely only a stranger can, and by our Constitution in fact anyone can get it who is legally and legitimate in the Republic of Croatia. There is an even bigger problem with Article 33, which is, in fact, limited by underwater rifle, and it is quite fine that it can only be limited during daylight. It cannot be carried out at midnight, but it is not clear to me why the threat of certain fish species in the fishing area would have to be prohibited or prohibited only by underwater rifles, and not by sport, recreational and any other form of use of fishing gear. Simply if it is to protect good fishing or other marine micro-organisms, then it is really necessary to ban everything and not just the use of rifles and rifles, of course, especially sanction the use of rifles if it exceeds the necessary measures and the necessary species of fish that can be allowed. An additional problem arises when it is said that the licenses for recreational fishing are sold in the departmental units of the ministry and in legal and physical persons for which it is authorised by the minister. Now imagine the islanders in the area, in the department's units, are usually the district units in the county headquarters. And now the counties that cover our islands, of course in Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, Sibenik, Rijeka, and the one from Suska will have to cross hundreds of kilometers of air lines, I don't know how to convert it to miles in order to get a daily license for recreational fishing in the Ministry's field unit, is it also in the case of legal persons if, of course, the minister didn't authorise a fishing company in Susca on condition that it even exists for recreational fishing in Susca such an association and so on. Well, I think we really didn't take care of some things, and in that context, we should actually set it up. At the end of the line, there is also a view model such as in freshwater fishing that sport and fishing alliances and their regional units can be granted public authority so that they can issue licences, of course, provided that there is a passed fishing test. But there's no mention of sports-recreation, I don't know, and for fishing that there has to be a passed exam. The second question, or I don't know which one in a row that suggests that this should be discussed more seriously, this whole bill in the first reading, is a question of fish marking. It is said that, in the case of catches of sport and recreational fisheries, they must be directly marked after catches or marked. Why, for example, should they not be marked for small fishing because these fish also do not go and cannot be put into legal traffic. That's number one. I mean, you can't trade with them. Number 2, if marked, they want to cut their fins, they want to cut, or some other form of marking will have to be prescribed as well. At the same time, it is not said who will be different than the minister will prescribe how it will be marked. Why would the minister have to be in a situation where he has to prescribe things like this? We must also say that the concession tender for the marine good, for the purpose of raising fish, cannot be granted without the consent of the ministry. This will be said by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water and Fisheries, of course, it will decide whether to award concessions at all or not to grant concessions for fish farming. And other microorganisms. Because if they don't have their consent, you can't make a decision. Since it will be the issue of the Ministry of the Sea and Tourism in general. So it is obvious that these issues should be resolved more clearly and more precisely. Of course, Article 51 is also interesting for the needs of responsible and sustainable fisheries management, legal and natural persons can now carry out the following activities, except that they are not listed to perform fishing, fish protection, micro-organisms and other fruits of the sea and eco-systems in order to reproduce the economic rational development of the fish fund. Now it is not clear, but this to advise, to help organise the activities of professional associations to consult in the field of regulations, and so on and so forth, it is all of course present. Of course, the interesting question is how to predict in fact inspections, and controls. For example, as seen here, inspectors are obliged to carry out inspection of documents and business records of legal and natural persons carrying out fishing, breeding and transport of fish and other marine organisms. It monitors the performance of fisheries in accordance with the provisions of this law and the regulations adopted on the basis of it. Control of fish traffic and so on. Well, now who can be the inspector? The inspector may be the one who has passed the expert exam for the fishing inspector, 7 degree plus one, and it may be that the veterinarian is a biological or agronomic direction but cannot possibly be a lawyer. And two-thirds of the jobs are related to the implementation of laws and regulations under this control law. How these people will work at all or why this guy couldn't be a lawyer again. Also a very interesting solution, which says inspectors have a special ID card and a form of official card and a sign and uniform of inspectors is prescribed by the minister. And that's what the minister writes in a little letter. Now the question is which minister, which ministry. Because when it comes to a little letter, then it refers to all the ministers, and when it comes to the big letter, it refers to the resolution ministry and so on. Unfortunately, time's up, so we can't go any further. But all these examples of an individual nature actually suggest that this law should be discussed in two readings. And try to eventually find some solution that will have both the social and economic and the ecological components that will be in the protection of interest and this natural wealth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35224	Thank you very much. HSP's respected representative, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35225	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored gentlemen from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy without Fisheries. At first, before I move on to an analysis of the law itself, I short-circuited that some things might not be unclear to those who first heard it. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Law of the Sea speaks of the right of safe passage. This is because no fishing is considered to be considered harmless in the safe passage of Article 19. So fishing for foreign fishing vessels in the territorial sea of our country is not considered harmless. Therefore, Article 19 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, exclusively prohibits fishing for foreign fishermen in a foreign territorial sea. So is ours. I am saying this because we have an agreement on border traffic and cooperation that provides for it in our article 47 and also has an article 71. The sea fishing law which does not touch these changes, which also provides that foreigners can continue to fish in the Croatian territorial sea, which I repeat is contrary to the Convention and the Law of the Sea. Secondly, Croatia has its protected ecological fishing belt, although it is not a full economic belt, but it acts as an economic belt. And it is good that it is predicted in the existing sea fishing law, and in these changes. However, what is startling is that Article 4 which discusses the zoning of the Croatian fishing sea does not provide for a separate zone of the Croatian protected ecological fishing band. So for those who do not know that, the fishing privileges of Croatian fishermen are listed fishing zones in the Croatian territorial sea, but no fishing zones are included in the economic belt or in the protected ecological fishing band. Because no one's just done it. No one has ever zoned the Croatian ecological fishing belt and we expect it to be done. Because then fishing can also be controlled and benefits can be given to him. But what is crucial is that in a protected ecological fishing belt, foreign fishermen can fish. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Law of the Sea is clear there, he says, that the country that declares the economic belt prescribes the maximum amount of catches in its economic belt. In accordance with Article 62, the country declaring the economic zone by agreement with its neighbours shall establish any quotas for their fishing in its economic band, however, it shall make sure that Article 77 is taken into account. The Convention on the Law of the Sea speaks of special rights of a state that has its own epicontinental belt and you know we have our epicontinental belt since 68th and that moment when it is demarcated with Italy. This Regulation shall enter The Convention on the Law of the Sea says that the natural resources that cover the epi-continental belt cover all beings belonging to the species from the bottom. Therefore, all animal species living on the seabed and the second paragraph of the same Article of the Convention on Law must say that no one, without the permission of a state that has an epicontinental belt, can access the research or exploitation of the resources at sea. Which basically means that no one but ourselves or those we allow can fish species from the bottom to the surface of our economic belt. Or species that live on the seabed in an epi-continental belt. So all negotiations that will be held with the European Union, and with Italy and Slovenia on fishing in the economic belt, do not apply to bottom species. So the species that live on the seabed. It's only those who swim above it. Why am I telling you this? Because Croatia is constantly undermining the thesis that Croatia will have to agree to fishing in its economic belt, we say it is true it will agree, but only as regards the economic belt and only regarding the fish that swims in it and not those living on the seabed. On the other hand, Croatia does not really need to agree to fishing in its territorial sea. It also underlines the thesis in the Croatian public that Croatia will have to allow fishing for other fishing vessels in its territorial sea after entering the Union. Which is also incorrect. The Council of Ministers’ Regulation No 2371 of 2002 clearly states in Article 11 that fishing vessels from the European Union countries have free access to all waters within the territorial seas of the European Union except in one case provided for in paragraph 2 of that same article, which states that Member States have been authorised to limit fishing by foreign fishing vessels in their territorial waters only to those who have traditionally fished in those waters and have come from neighbouring shores. This practically means that if we allow someone to fish in our territorial sea today, they will be able to fish tomorrow when we join the European Union. Not anyone else. It is therefore very important that Articles 3, Article 1 relating to Article 3, that Article 5, which, existing law, is to be given to Article 4, should Article 29 in particular Article 29, which regulates Article 71 on foreign fishing in the territorial sea be brought into line with those facts. So we agree with the ministry's gentlemen to introduce into our fishing sea a protected eco-fishing belt. And that's right. However, Article 71 of the existing Maritime Fisheries Act must exclude the possibility of foreign fishing in the territorial sea and leave only the possibility of foreign fishing on the basis of international contracts in the economic belt and only on species other than the bottom. So much for these extremely important things about fishing. As far as privilege is concerned. Appropriations, which is regulated here by Article 7 which is changed to Article 11, the benefit cannot be subject to audit until the fisherman shuts down the crafts. She's tied to the craftsman. In the Republic of Croatia, the more interesting it is under Article 11 of the existing economic fishing law is also related to the ship. Which means that if a man changes his ship, he has to change his privileges. Which is completely pointless. It must be connected to the fishing gear. In Italy it is connected to fishing gear, a fisherman can get a new boat, he can sell his privilege to another craftsman along with the boat, and he can even sell it to the state, it's so-called. Buying the privilege. Now, as far as the possibility for foreigners to get the benefit from us and foreign fishing companies to hunt with us, some of the agreements that Croatia has ratified should also be reminded of. And that's Article 49. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which in paragraph 5(b) clearly states that foreign companies can register their branch, their daughter in Croatia, but that these foreign companies should not use agricultural land, forests and forest land, public goods and natural resources. Article 52 is replaced by the The Constitution clearly defines under natural wealth is also the Croatian sea. It is therefore unacceptable to have a foreign company in Croatia or its branch registered for fishing in the Croatian territorial sea. So we were against the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but now that it's in force as legalists we'll stick to each of its items to the score and point and implement it. In the end, what is here is very unusually related to the whole issue of small recreational and sport fishing. We are fully aware in the HSP Club that all fishing in Croatia should be limited, i.e. that they should be brought into the frameworks of ecological sustainable development. We are aware of the fact that with thousands of kilometers of networks in Croatia there is simply no room for normal development of fish species and that we need to go to one reasonable limit. But we do not understand what is actually being achieved by dividing this fishing industry into small fishing, sport fishing and recreational fishing. I've been desperately trying to figure out what it's like to distinguish sports and recreational fishing. The only difference is age. Article 35 states that fishing is recreational if it is carried out by a bodule and is over 65 years old. Which means that if you have a Zagreber under 65 he is definitely engaged in sports fishing rather than recreational fishing. Now I'm interested in what status I am, so I'm a bodule living in Zagreb, I'm under 65 years old. I'm probably a sports fisherman, and when I move to Hvar retired, then I'll be a recreational fisherman. So these are the things that are badly defined here. These three fishing, therefore small, sporting and recreational, should also differ by tool, and until this leaves the possibility of a lot of complications about this. So it's not even a bad five-pound formula. But you'll forgive who's going to check it out. In which way you will be able to prove that the day has been caught and since the day actually starts, since midnight. So the man goes fishing, he has to catch five kilos of fish by midnight, and then from midnight, another five kilos of fish. Who's up to it? Where are the scales? Well, our inspections often don't fit their boots much, let alone the scales. It's just as vague as that whole underwater fishing story. Look, it's here, it's not forbidden to fish at night with an underwater rifle, but from sunset to sunrise, like under Sharia law. So it's not about night fishing, it's about fishing from sunset to sunrise. It is clear that fishing is limited to breath, not that it is not allowed to fish with an underwater rifle with bottles. But then the fines of the ladies and gentlemen as to fishing with an underwater rifle with bottles must be more severe. Not only must they be contained in fines but they must indeed be in the prey of what is found. If a bottle of oxygen is found on the ship and an underwater rifle follows the seizure. Equally so great is the problem here and the interference of jurisdiction. When we proposed the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea in our time, we counted on the fact that for Croatia, the worst thing to do is to interfere with the jurisdiction of who is responsible for what. Therefore, Article 49 mentions the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in Article 50. The Ministry of Nature's Protection repeats this Law on Law Amendments. So a little of that applies to the Ministry of the Sea, a little of that applies to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, a little of that applies to the Ministry of Culture that covers us with the protection of nature. So we have also insisted on the establishment of the Ministry must be controlled together by the Ministry of the Sea and that marine fisheries be in the Ministry of the Sea and then know exactly who is responsible for what. One jurisdiction, one ministry. One problem, one law, one responsible person. This is how it's all coming off. In the end, we also hold that respected ladies and gentlemen should think very much about whether it makes sense in Croatia to allow for the cultivation of alochton species, so whether it makes sense in terms of protecting the Adriatic and what we want to do with the Adriatic, which is that it is the cleanest sea in the Mediterranean, had in Croatia the sense to further allow cultivation of species that are not indigenous. This should also be amended accordingly. For all these reasons, unfortunately, we're going to think a lot about whether or not we're going to vote for a law like this. It depends on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35226	Thank you. Next up on behalf of the HSS club Mr. Ante Markov. Here's a colleague of Markov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35227	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, honourable representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by using a natural debate on this bill, I say that during the last current hour I pointed to the problem of two fishermen who unfortunately ended up unhappily, of which it is clear to one as well as the human victims, so the minister unequivocally said that they would help these families because they were left without everything that could be left to you when such a thing happened to you both without the lives of people and without the means to work, and therefore without the means to live. And so, first of all, I remind the secretary of state to transfer the minister to be very valuable and very much of attention, but we feel like some of us have shown that as soon as we help these people try to live out of their own hands again. To go back to the draft bill itself. I think that in some way, the opportunity to amend and supplement the Law on Marine Fisheries that has the final proposal, to complete all the shortcomings and all the reasons that existed when we passed the Law on Marine Fisheries recently in this House, above all to respect those facts that clearly appeared or proved to be perfectly correct and which we warned about when we passed this law. Namely, by prohibiting fishing in certain parts protected under the Nature Protection Act, and then we suggested that it would be good to define exactly what parts these are, which is the part that can be stated in accordance with the Nature Protection Act to say that these are national parks and nature parks and that the way is a fully clearly underlined line, which is where the prohibition of fishing should be a commitment. This wide interpretation can result in two new inconveniences, which is that fishermen do not know exactly where the zones that are banned or other are, that there are too many of these zones, and that there are not enough reasons. Secondly, that provision that spoke of paying the economic fisheries fee is known in our ministry, in most Mediterranean countries it does not exist as an obligation. The third thing that we unfortunately didn't take this opportunity to remove then is benefits. The benefits discussed in different ways from different aspects but it is clear that we at the HSS Club first hold that they should be transferable exclusively to the first succession order. In some ways, for reasons to create an institute to protect these benefits, but also to address the overall situation with regard to benefits because there are probably many inactive ones, and thus to establish a certain value that these benefits represent. Unfortunately, we have heard that in Italy, those worth some 200-300 thousand euros are worth, and unfortunately, because of the regimes that they have no value, it is also clear that the position of those people who use and have the opportunity to have these benefits is quite different from that of some other fishermen in some other countries. Furthermore, this famous fishing or finger traffic that is imposed as an almost 0,0 alcohol in the blood during the ride that receives certain contexts that simply do not suit a serious tourist country. Because to say in Croatia that the strictest and most rigorous ban will be on any toes traffic, while TV cameras walk through restaurants, and they all make a very responsible statement that they will get it on another market without trying to find a reasonable form of wear with the consumption of these fingers. We think that this is also on the trail of a proposal that could be heard during the debate on the Committee, which is to allow 10% of the area to be defined, to establish hunting criteria, and simply to make one thing clear, clean and not to constantly extract on Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have imported these huge fingers or I don't know where we are from. So we protect certain zones, let's say that 10% is allowed, let's say in which time dynamics these zones are going to change, control them, and consult the profession that stands at the point of view that this approach would be one reasonable act that could reconcile the market, consumption, tourism and the profit of those who have the right to live on it. The issue of allowing foreign citizens to hunt in our territorial waters is something that, of course, needs to be completely removed. It is also necessary to remove the specificities of our Adriatic Sea for the reason that we are not trained to compete in terms of equipment, in terms of property and if you want and knowledge, we are dealing with those who are ahead of us and of course our fishing fleet would remain completely minor because it would be a game of first leaguers and a third-party, so we think it's simply not normal. Therefore, at this point there is no reason to leave at all the possibility of contracting with foreign countries regarding fishing on our territorial sea. We think that there is no reason nor any framework that makes us in terms of some practice that is out there in some other countries at this point will make us do something like that. It is clear that the application of the zone that we have brought to the fishing-environment belt is something that would harmonize the totality of our legal action at sea. The thing that we think is worth reviewing under this bill is certainly criminal provisions that you really do if you read them and if you go to do a little bit of them are the majority of these changes and additions, but they're in themselves so terrible that since our fishermen don't really read it, I'm sorry that they don't even want to read this because to read this, they'd deserve more punishment than to run over a car on the street. That's the kind of punishment if you happen to get caught without a credit card. Therefore, we think that such a way and restrictions on criminal provisions will not achieve that goal. I think more effective surveillance should try to come up with a real and optimal solution that will contribute to respecting existing laws. And the figures shown in thousands of kunas that need to be paid by a man who doesn't have a pension, social, and otherwise, according to some 30% of them don't pay either pension or social. They probably don't pay for reasons because they don't have any money. I guess no one does it out of a lizard or because it seemed like a good example to him. They probably don't have enough money. So their going out to the sea during the time when they should not go out to the sea is also talking about the force that forces them to come out so that they may live the next month. All this says is that it is really one sensitive subject and we will agree all together, the legislation in its procedures is going towards the goal of making it easier for those fishermen who do their jobs, to make the market more organised, to create ports of fishing, to organise the fish market, to form major markets that should contribute not only to better production, so to speak, fish but also to better fish consumption. Because fish consumption is also very questionable in the Republic of Croatia as well as in the culture of fish consumption and to be created, and I think that legislation is going in that direction. We can't say that it goes against the interests of the people of the fishermen. However, the measures that are important to them are crucial in weather dynamics, but also in one sense interpretation. Or about the simplicity in which you can consume the law. You must know, when you prescribe something for the structure of people like this, for which we are now prescribing, that it must be clear, that it must be understandable and that above all it must be operationally possible to do so. Because if a sports license, for example, that a stranger would want to participate in sports fishing, and in summer, don't give God on an island that's far away or has no bridge, then we're all in trouble together. Especially if there's no sports society that could cover the interests of covering it. Therefore, we do not have the same relationship in the freshwater fishing law. We don't have a shared recreational and sporting, we only have one. So the question is whether it's in line with the Sport Act. What are we doing here? Therefore, a whole series of reasons make it worth thinking about, regardless of the possible justification for the separation of sports fishermen from recreationals, although it is difficult to understand, but let's just say that we want to understand. And then there's always the polemics of little fishermen, as we call them. In the nature of intensity and what was going on, I believe this government and that former government and the government behind the former was that you, as we call them in the law, or supplements. It is, in nature, about the island population, about a population who simply has a traditional way of life, something that has deep-rooted and cultural and sociological aspects learned to live like that. And to try to make their lives easier in one way that for that part of the fish that they catch, they catch it in one decent way and they can't put it clearly on the market. Or if they want to put on, they should be allowed to use a particular craft during the hunting season of a particular fish species. Therefore, all of this can be solved in a very simple way, but this should definitely be resolved, and should not be constantly taken as an example of why the Croatian market is not regulated, they say, because there are many of these small fishermen. Well, you know, they make a whole shaman on the market, probably the devices, one part is the culprits, but of course, they can't be called guilty because there's no organised market. We know in which way and how this market is organised and what are the preconditions for this market to be effective and quality. There are still a whole series of doubts relating to these changes. One of them, although the legislator does not say it, is the introduction of an inspection that should be made by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy as one measure that should probably contribute more effectively to quality control. But I suggest that those measures in terms of criminal policy, especially those huge amounts that are increasing tenfold, I don't think it's going to be a worthwhile measure and that it's not going to give a result that we all stand for together. Because unfortunately, our fishermen, of them 2 and a half thousand today, sail on usually worn out, old and outdated ships whose program should be quickly activated, which is the construction of the Croatian fishing fleet. But I have to tell you this, let's stand up for the wooden shipbuilding and the wooden fishing fleet. It's part of our culture, our tradition, it's part of what we have and what we can offer the world. It's part of what we know, and let's not let another Turkish who doesn't even know how to make a boat out of real oak beat us to lose one battle here. And at this point, believe me, Croatia still has these strengths, knowledge and opportunities to cope with wooden shipbuilding with everyone in the world and examples are very common. That a large number of wooden ships are ordered, more than 30 meters of ships are built, you know, in Croatia, for those of the United States, and we ourselves declare that this wooden shipbuilding is not effective, that we do not know it and that it is obsolete and that it is de modern. De-model are the heads that say that, but I believe those heads don't sit in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35228	I thank my colleague Markov. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Rade Ivas. Here you go, colleague Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35229	Madam Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Before I speak of the bill itself, allow me a few principles. Maritime fishing is a complex economic activity that is not only subject to the influence of different factors that condition its development and direct its development but also takes care of technological, technical economic, legal and all other aspects that have a decisive impact on its development in order to properly manage and protect the renewed wealth. Fish and other marine organisms are the renewable wealth of the sea, which unfortunately is irresponsiblely exploited, especially by overfishing it can be very quickly orphaned. The current state of our fishing can be characterized by several lines. It is done on the territory of 34 thousand square kilometers and we still have in the protected ecological and fishing zone 25 thousand and 207 square kilometers. Over three and a half thousand fishermen are engaged in economic fishing, but the catch of small fish is very low. He's only 8% of the estimated biomass. Fishing is concentrated on the inland fishing sea, for the purely reason that the fleet, the fishing fleet, is numerous but is very poor characteristics, small vessels. These are mostly small vessels with small construction, low construction and clearly do not allow such characteristics to be fished in the outside fishing sea. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, so the legislator did not go with the new Fisheries Act, and that is good because I think that to adopt a new Fisheries Act requires a broad design, and according to information from the Ministry, the new Act will be developed through the Card Programme, this programme will look at the circumstances related to Croatia's accession to the European Union, and this will be the basis for the adoption of the new Maritime Fisheries Act. The proposed amendments and additions to the Marine Fisheries Act are primarily intended to create assumptions for the establishment of inspections in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and the water economy. Namely, the Law on the establishment and operation of the central authorities of the state administration stipulates that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy will carry out inspection tasks relating to marine fisheries. Namely, during the formation of the State Inspectorate, a specialised fishing inspection was abolished, i.e. then the fishing inspectors moved into the State Inspectorate and gained the status of an economic inspector, practically no fishing inspection since then, and almost all major fishing gatherings have repeatedly highlighted the need for specialised fishing inspections. The inspection must be effective, more efficient, because that way it will be better and the protection of the fish fund will make the team far more effective in protecting the fish fund, far greater than to prescribe an increase in fines. Furthermore, in order to enable more efficient economic biomanagement of marine biological wealth, the implementation of international commitments and the improvement of statistical monitoring of fishing effort, the additions to the Law will allow the adoption of the legal basis necessary for the creation of the control system, and the monitoring of fishing vessels, as well as the obligation to develop a fisheries development programme for the longer term. By adopting a legal basis for the regulation of the transport of fish and other marine organisms. In addition to these amendments and amendments, the problem of sports and recreational fishing is arranged in a way that is more appropriate to our terms, the adoption of this Act in Croatia will have four types of fishing for economic, small, sports and recreational fisheries. According to current legislation, we had an economic small, and sports-recreation fishing as a unique category. As we see these changes and additions, little fishing is not abolished, although we know that in a united Europe little fishing is not known, there is no, and it will certainly need to be fitted or directed by a small economy in the final proposal for a law according to economic and recreational fisheries. Perhaps here a note or suggestion according to the promoter to make its own amendments a little better or better quality way to distinguish between small, sports and recreational fishing because from these changes and additions that are ahead of us it is very difficult to make that difference. Furthermore, these changes and additions will also take place in keeping the eyewitnesses, documents that were very disturbing to fishermen who were introduced in their own time in order to finally obtain a credible catch record and exploitation of certain areas. It is now prescribed that an eyewitness must be kept in vessels that are more than 10 metres long while fishermen working with smaller vessels should submit a report on the catch of fish below 10 metres. However, here I will also mention that for the development of Croatian fisheries, two new provisions are important, namely better regulated, in Article 51 which speaks of the fisheries development programme and Article 49 which speaks of the possibility of limiting fishing and catching, in certain areas in order to rationally manage biological stocks of the sea. According to the proposal for a law, the fisheries development programme will be adopted for a period of 6 years and will include an assessment of the current state of marine fisheries and fisheries wealth, strategy and objective of achieving a lasting exploitation of fisheries wealth. Development of the fish market and fish products, promotion and modernisation of the fishing fleet, etc. In order to achieve the rational management of biological stocks of the sea, the Minister under this proposal will be authorised to prescribe certain restrictions, will prescribe the number and size of fishing vessels, the type and quantity of gears and equipment authorised to fish in a particular fishing zone. Limitation of fishing time in a specific fishing zone, allowable quantity of catches, etc. Some of this has also been prescribed in the current Fisheries Act, however, these amendments open significantly greater possibilities for the restriction and control of fishing and the protection of certain areas which are estimated to be overfished or threatened. Further to this Act, it is also determined that the resources from the compensation for fishing and damage to marine organisms will have to be used to finance the monitoring of the state of biological wealth of the sea and the measures to improve marine fisheries. Finally, I can say that although there are inconsistencies and discrepancies in this law with the law on freshwater fisheries and also with the law of the sea, the adoption of this Law will allow better monitoring of the state of biological wealth of the sea and will improve marine fisheries. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this Law and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35230	Thank you, colleague Ivas. We've finished discussing the clubs, we're moving on to an individual debate. First up, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35231	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, I think this law should be passed in two readings. In fact, there are no particularly justified state reasons why it should now be brought forward by emergency procedure, and there are particularly justified logical, healthy reasons for this Law to be discussed in two readings. For what? Because he is missing in many parts, it is good to have a discussion twice and to have these shortcomings of the ID. Secondly, this law is all going in the wrong direction, it's a little wrongly tilted, instead of strengthening the protection of the fish fund from the economic capture of foreigners above all else, the law is unseen by the power of... the state crashes on recreational and sports fishermen, as if they represent not how great a danger. The damage caused by an Italian brake that sports and recreational fishermen can't catch in 10 years. Therefore, the whole law, especially after the declaration of a fishing-environment belt, which was subsequently abolished or significantly reduced, is as if we do not have it. But from practice, from what's happening on our sea. That law needs to be interpreted differently. Secondly, this law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal, and since then it has been applicable, and this text of the law provides for a whole series of sublegal acts to be adopted, which will certainly not be passed in those 8 days. So the law will be inapplicable. For example, sports fishing permits at sea are issued by the Ministry. So then the approval and conditions for the maintenance of local competition are also issued by the ministry's competent regional unit. So approval and conditions for maintaining state and international competitions are issued by the ministry. So the license for recreational fishing is issued by the Ministry. So licenses for recreational fishing are sold in the ministry's district units and in legal and physical persons, which the minister has to write for it. Well, a species of fish and other marine organisms, as well as the way their markings are prescribed by the minister. So the minister also prescribes a way of using the type and quantity of fishing gears and equipment to be used. So the minister prescribed the number and size of the fishing vessels, the power of the propulsion machine. So the minister prescribes both individual and fishing effort on a fishing vessel. So it prescribes a time limit for fishing in a specific fishing zone. Well, then, she's presupposing an amount of catch. Then conditions for setting up artificial marriages, and measures and conditions for watering. The Minister shall then prescribe the conditions which must be met by legal and natural persons to carry out the activities referred to in Article 51(1) that is the whole set of things. So the minister prescribes a form, content and method of delivering a form of eyewitnesses. So the minister has a lot of work to do. There's a very busy minister. And this minister who otherwise has a huge portfolio, he is the minister of the sea, the sky and the country, and there still has to bring this number of sublegal acts in eight days to make the law applicable. All these sublaws should be prepared first, after the debate in this first reading, so that the minister can be helped a little bit. There's no concept of that important difference. What's the difference between small recreational fishing and sports fishing? I've been trying to figure out the difference, I have to admit I haven't been able to figure it out. Watch out for each other. They can catch up to five kilos. As far as sports fishing is concerned, you have one illogicality, or completely different, precisely the diametric opposite attitudes in two articles that follow directly behind each other. In Article 34, you say that the quantity of catches is not limited during the duration of the sport fishing competition. It's not limited. In accordance with Article 35b of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 35b of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 35b of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 35b of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 35b of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and Article 35b of Now, isn't it limited or 5 kilos? You must first agree with yourself, and then write it in a legal proposal, because this is impossible to keep it this way, that in one article it is unlimited, and in another article it is already limited to 5 kilograms. It is logical, then, that in sport fishing, sport fishing is organized, so you can see who will catch more. And now if you limit that to five kilos, how will you know who won? Because they beat everyone who comes right up to 5 kilos or how? How will you know that? This is where you wrote 35b. that in sport fishing, it is limited to 5 kilograms. Now, one more thing about that little fishing trip. You know what a little fishing is? For your own needs, up to 5 kilos. And who's doing it? Well, it's done by those locals over there, fishermen in those small towns, first to eat, second to make a little money. They can't sell that fish, they can't put it on the market. So what do you think they're going out to sea, because they're enjoying that fishing, throwing nets in the cold, and rising up in the morning at 3:00 and lifting them up? So they're doing it to sell the luck they have, lucky, very lucky, if they catch that day five kilos of fish. They're doing it to fix their home budgets a little bit. Now you forbid it to them. And then you give them some incredible punishments if they get caught to sell by accident any of those fish that they caught, that they didn't just leave them all to themselves. Look, it's a small economic activity. So if you have to pay her some kind of flat tax symbolically, you can think about it. But those people deprive them of such extra income, I don't think they're very smart. Keep going. Now they're criminal provisions. Penalties are unusually interesting. Here's me trying, correct me if I'm wrong. Article 33 states that fishing with a submarine rifle is prohibited. And in criminal provisions, I can't see it sanctioned anywhere, and I don't see any penalty for that article 33. It means who's hunting with a gun. It was in the old law. That's in your article in the 80s, I guess. Therefore, if recreational sport fishing is carried out with illicit fishing gears or equipment, it may be so referred to in Article 33, there is a minimum sentence of 400 to 2000 kuna in the old law, the smallest, possible penalty. Now I don't know who's here, I couldn't find it. But one other thing is very interesting to me. In Article 61d, point (a) is replaced by the following: You give the inspector the right to confiscate the vessel, the gears and the gears that they used to commit the offence, means when someone hunts with the wrong gear, this, what, without permission, then you take his vessel. That's unusually interesting, you see. Well, let's just say you did, so in the second attempt, we'll take his vessel, not immediately take the vessel away until the infringement is over. And when Minister Mlinarić was proposed to provide for such punishment in the Road Safety Act, he said it was impossible, that it did not belong to our legal system. And recently, one or two of them killed one or two kids, because the police took his license, so what does he care, what's his license, he doesn't need a license to drive a car, he's still driving a car without a license and killing two people. So look, in the law, so on road safety, that would be a reasonable measure. Because, you know, it doesn't mean anything to take his license, you have to take his car away, the car then you're only sure he won't have anything to kill someone else with. And now what's the real damage, it's hard to talk about damage here. What are the victims we have in traffic, not that measure cannot be applied. And here if someone catches 5.5 kilos of fish, not just 5, then you'll take his boat, right at the beginning. So these are some kind of dragon penalties that I don't think will even apply, who's going to apply you're going to have accounts on the coast. Well, people won't give you a boat. So confiscation of the vessel could be, I agree, to protect the fish fund. But especially impertinent behavior. Not right away. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35232	I thank Mr. Stazic. Next up is Mr. Agent Lino Cervar. Here's your colleague, Cervar.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35233	Madam Vice President, Secretary of State. So I think the draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act actually lays down the basic provisions relating to the performance of economic small and recreational sport fishing, the conditions for issuing licences and the privileges for carrying out fishing and breeding, and criminal provisions for infringements of certain parts of the law. I think we should give support to this bill, and it's about improving sea fishing in us. But it's not too bad to say the same thing that's being heard on the ground. Here I am going to say what I heard in Istria what people fishermen say about it, just to eventually try to remove any misunderstandings or to do so. So, I would try to say this positively. Of course, if you read this proposal a little bit so that a certain man who reads it has a little bit of an observation that we say, it's a little too much about one centralised to say what's normal if you read it a little bit and you don't have to tell people that it's wrong because that's what it looks like because yet one minister gives and determines the fishing tools, determines the vessel, the amount of catch, the amount of perks and all the other things, and it's logical for people to notice it that way. I understand that this is, in fact, the support and implementation of the European Union's common fisheries policy for the Mediterranean and the harmonisation of fisheries legislation with the relevant segment of the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, it also means that, as you have said well, they are preparing and coordinating the implementation of fisheries projects with international financial institutions from donations or technical assistance. It shall be supported in a certain way by the membership of the Republic of Croatia to the international fisheries organisations FAU, FISHERIS, EUROFISH, etc. To sum up, this legislative proposal, which is how you have made it clear that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the legislation of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. What I have heard somewhere because fishermen in Istria and probably others throughout ours have some comments, for example, I have seen a lot and listened to articles 71, 74, 78, says what has been said before that the privilege cannot be subject to review until the fisherman shuts down the crafts, subtracting or stripping the tools while a fisherman pays his dues, thinks that injustice and privilege is tied to the craftsman. For example, they speak of what the esteemed representative Tadic said, that when it comes to fishing for foreign legal and physical persons, that our territorial seas should still be protected, or that they are doing so outside the territorial sea. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 74 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. This would mean that they should have, so they complain, a whole bunch of papers, that they should also have the privilege with them, the boat's bookbook, the eyewitness, etc., so they say the same would come when a policeman stopped a citizen and asked for not only a traffic permit but evidence that he had finished school for, so that it might be seen more efficiently so that people should not carry everything with them and reportedly be told, I don't know if it's true, that the eyewitness, for example, the Slovenians began to meet only when entering the European Union and we must immediately. Now you need to see it. Listen, some people are saying that we should just overwrite it from Slovenians who have already negotiated with the European Union, and they are members of the European Union themselves, but these same Slovenians say don't make mistakes like we did, so we ran into each other, and that would mean we have nothing left to do but listen to a wise folk saying that they are learning on their own and other people's mistakes. But what I was about to say was that I mentioned it once and here in the debate and I see that this fellow respected representative also mentioned these little fishermen. Listen, there are, I'm talking about the social component because little fishermen, really they're people, they're retired, they're the most, or people with simply no place to survive, they have to go to sea and what's known in the morning and in the night, etc. so we can survive simply. I don't mean those who do small fishing and can abuse it. Besides, there are inspections. Now we have so many inspectors if we can't do it. And besides, we said that they can make up to 5 kilograms, but still, it's illogical for me, there you would agree with the gentleman who said, the distinguished representative who said you see is limited to five and on the other hand we didn't define what is with sports and recreational fishermen, as long as they can, which is how they can be identified as the marking of fish and so on. I have to say that I have sympathy for small fishermen because I know from my neighborhood where I live who deals with it then I know that these are people in trouble and I would never agree to talk about exceptions because they don't make a rule. So I'm interested in the rule. So that's what I mean, and I'd like it to be supported no matter what I'm doing, I'd like it to be seen what else can be done. And the last thing I'd like to remind you of, again I'm talking about my area, so the Istrian area, because I know that now is the time when the support, the input to the establishment of these fishing cooperatives, these major markets, etc. However, with the wholesalers, I'd say something like this, an observation that we might be careful about the owner's participation. For example, we have 51% of the city, so we have 29% of the county. I'd like to think that maybe the state has a higher ownership interest just so it doesn't happen at a certain point in time of abuse, etc., if it were a little bit more controlled, but otherwise I did. There. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35234	I thank Representative Cervar. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Stazic. Here you go, fellow Stazic!
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35235	Dear colleague Lino Cervar, I'm going to take the opportunity to replicate to you even though it might be a correction to the wrong quote, but I'm using a replica just to give you the opportunity to answer. You say this law is a harmonisation with European legislation. Yeah, but in one smaller and one procedural part. What's in line here? Let's say that first-degree inspection work is carried out by inspectors. Some kind of council regulation, two, three, seven one in 2002. What no one here has mentioned in this debate is harmonised as something controversial and what is disputed, which is being objected to here, there are no relevant provisions in European legislation and we do not need to align it with anything. And this is, for example, a license for recreational fishing to even divide this recreational sport fishing. It's not there. There are no appropriate provisions and therefore we do not have to coordinate. We can do it ourselves better than in this first reading. I am in favour of harmonising and we need to harmonize but it is not good to put what is bad under the harmonisation company in line with European legislation, then put under that umbrella what is in those laws. That's why I answered your line for the replica. Just to draw attention not only to you, but to the Ministry, to the rest of my colleagues, but to the public. Let's be careful when, when we protect bad suggestions with the matching label. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35236	Thank you. Answer? The reply to the replica, MP Cervar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35237	Madam Vice President, well, I didn't get him that bad. That replica of him and, uh, me, it just matters to me that, to understand one thing. Until they come as the esteemed representative of Ivas says, until better times come when a situation with small fishermen may be defined to take care of them anyway, and of course sports-recreatively, it's kind of less for me. And I'm more into those little fishermen who are more interested in me. Let them compete who's more. No, they don't have a stomach problem. So I look more at the social issue. Otherwise, fine. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35238	Thank you. Next up is representative Marin Jurjevic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Next Miroslav Rozic. He's gone. He's losing his right. The next is MP Anticevic-Marinovic. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate. The next representative, Anton Perusko. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Next up is representative Milan Meden. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And the next one would be Irena Ahel. I have to apologize to her because so many MPs have been reported that I told her that we're going to continue the debate tomorrow and she'll be up tomorrow. But since everyone's gone, then we're finishing the debate on this wheel tonight. We'll vote when the conditions are met on Friday. Tomorrow we start with the Law on districts, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 18.45 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35239	We are going to vote on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Marine Fisheries, the emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 282. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the HSP Representatives' Club and the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline. First, we will vote whether or not we will debate, vote on the amendments that the government has submitted after the deadline. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. I'm asking for a result. 81 for, 8 abstentions, 13 against. So we'll discuss and vote on these amendments to the government. I ask the Secretary of State, Dr Dragan Kovacevic, to briefly explain the amendments. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35240	Amendment 1 in Article 28, which is added to Article 61f in paragraphs 1 and 2, the word "five" is replaced by the word "three". Recital: the same conditions are laid down for the conduct of inspectors' duties as in the freshwater fisheries law.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35241	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Government. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment accepted with 85 votes for, 10 abstentions, 12 against. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35242	In Article 30(3) and (4), Article 31(3) and (4) and Article 32(3) and (4) beyond the words "persons" shall be added to the words "and responsible person in the legal person". Reason: A criminal measure shall be laid down for the person responsible in the legal person for the offence committed in return.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35243	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the 2nd amendment. Please come in. We can vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment accepted with 85 votes for, 14 abstentions and 4 against. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35244	In Article 33(1), second paragraph, the word "no" is added to the word "rolled". In paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same article, the word "for" is added: "equal". Reason: The authorisation for small fishing shall be valid with confirmation of the fee paid and a penalty measure shall be laid down for the same infringement in return.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35245	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 3. Please come in. Vote. I'm asking for a result. The amendment passed with 87 votes for, 8 abstentions and 8 against. It becomes an integral part of Amendment 3. And Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35246	In accordance with Article 37, a new Article 38 which reads, Article 38, reads: "The Minister is obliged to adopt implementing rules on the basis of the powers laid down in this law within one year of the date of entry into force of this law." Articles 38 and 39 thus far become Articles 39 and 40. Explanation: The time limit for the adoption of implementing rules shall be laid down.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35247	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35248	Your Honor, Mr. President, the deadline of a year is more than enough for such an important matter, more than too much. I will only give an example of the need to zone an economic belt that has not yet been made. Not for a year, three months is enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35249	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. And Amendment 4 adopted by 74 for, nine abstentions and 31 against. Thank you, Secretary of State. And now we have on this by the Legislative Committee. 1st Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35251	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35252	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35253	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35254	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35255	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35256	It becomes an integral part of the law. That's it. And HSP MPs Amendment number one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35257	4. The Legislative Committee is also accepted, where this changes from day to day.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35258	Yeah, it's about to be printed here in big letters. Yeah. Thank you very much. Amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSP. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35259	1st Amendment, therefore talks covering the territory of the territorial sea, etc., so that amendment is accepted but with a change of expression. So this mass is replaced by a single, therefore covering the territory of the territorial sea and so on, because the outer fishing sea, therefore, is the only one that can have a territorial fishing belt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35260	Representative Tadic, Proposer of the Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35261	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, our intensity is to take the economic belt, i.e. the ecological fishing band is treated separately from the territorial sea, so that there are three fishing seas, hence, the inland fishing sea, the external fishing sea and the economic belt. If that acceptance of you means it's what we're withdrawing our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35262	Only this mass is replaced by one, so it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35263	Okay. The amendment, then, number one, accepted by this inversion to one of the plural. Amendment two.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35264	The second amendment is not accepted. Namely, the fishing zone limits throughout the fishing sea of the Republic of Croatia shall be determined by the Minister and shall not be re-emphasised by the statement of paragraph 1 of the same article, and shall not be re-emphasised by the isolation of the protected ecological fishing zone, namely, it shall enter the fishing sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35265	Proposer's representative, Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35266	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, we feel that the law requires a separate regulation of the zone of the economic belt. It is simply because, according to Article 62. The Convention on the Law of the Sea will be able to fish in it by foreigners. The zone may not match the areas in the territorial sea, and these are also two special legal regimes at sea. The economic belt is not part of the territorial sea and Croatia cannot withdraw its sovereignty on it. For the sake of international law, we must have a separate zone of the economic belt and this has not yet been done, although it was declared 2.5 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35267	Please vote. Let's get on with it. You can vote. Score. 26 for the amendment, 18 abstentions 65 against, did not get the required majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35268	The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. In fact, we believe that the benefits related to the vessel and the review of the benefits are necessary because there is currently no proportion of the number of benefits and the number of vessels. An audit of the benefits is also necessary due to the change in the vessel or the registration of the replacement vessel. In addition to the benefits tools, it defines both hunting and water performance vessels that can and must be an integral part of the privilege. Therefore, in this case, the benefits exercise the rights of ownership over known, known variables and species and the quantity of fishing gears and the size of vessels and the power of the power of the driver’s fishing machine, etc. In fact, if we hadn't prescribed it and if it hadn't been clearly defined in the advantage, then even the minister couldn't assess the fishing effort, he couldn't prescribe... Is that a yes, seasonal ban, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we think that it must be tied to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35269	Representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35270	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, therefore, this amendment of our ladies and gentlemen has two parts, part of it is that we believe that in Croatia as well as in neighbouring Italy, the privilege should not be tied to the boat but to the fishing gear. On the other hand, we believe that the right to fish in a particular zone of the economic belt should be entered separately. So, we could still agree that for now, you will not go to this Italian tool-defining regime and not to the ship, but I do not see any reason not to enroll in the benefits of fishing separately in the economic belt. This is a legal state, that is the part where we have extended our sovereignty, our judication, not sovereignty, and that is why we must treat this area separately and allow the fishermen to comply with our regulations and in accordance with the ecologically sustainable maximum of fishermen in the economic belt. I'm asking you to accept at least that part. Otherwise we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35271	Please vote. Let's get on with it. I'm asking for a result. For Amendment 29, 9 abstentions and 69 v, did not receive the required majority. Amanda 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35272	Amendment 4 to Article 19 proposes to be amended in such a way as to prohibit the cultivation and fishing of the sea of aloctonic species. We do not accept this amendment because it is already prohibited to fish the sea of alocton species in Article 50 and to grow alktonic species of fish and other marine organisms without the consent of the Minister responsible for the protection of nature as well as the opinions of the scientific institution. Therefore, it cannot be done without that consent, therefore, and the prohibition is already defined in Article 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35273	Representative Tonči Tadic, promoter on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35274	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, the question arises who answers if the alktones of a foreign species escape from breeding. I mean, it can happen that in a few years someone comes up with a genius idea to grow whales or piranhas and get permission for that. We think it's not good, there were situations that alloctones of species escaped and that the Adriatic is a closed sea, an ecologically sensitive sea that should gradually reduce the cultivation of alocton species. That's why we think our amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35275	Please engage. Please vote. You can vote. Score. 19 for the amendment, 9 abstentions, 74 against, did not get the required majority. And Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35276	In Amendment 5, we do not accept it, a new item is proposed, a new item is proposed which excludes fishing from fishing for foreign and natural legal persons in a protected eco-fishing zone... So, the species that live at the bottom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, Article 77 of the Treaty on the The Convention on the Law of the Sea of the United Nations does not generally apply to species from the bottom but rather to species which are in a certain stage in which they can be fished either unmovable on the seabed or below, or are unable to move unless they are in constant physical contact with the seabed or underground. The fishing profession and science in Croatia has no answer to the question that species in the Adriatic Sea could come under this statement. In addition, it is technically not possible to catch, under the conditions of a larger number of target species, only one that would possibly comply with the definition of Article 77. Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35277	Representative Tonči Tadic on behalf of the Proposer Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35278	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, we are asking this amendment to allow foreign natural and legal persons to fish exclusively in the economic belt. The Convention on the Law of the Sea, Article 19 explicitly prohibits fishing in the territorial sea and considers it a violation of safe passage, hence, it should be clearly distinguished here. However, when it comes to foreign fishing in the economic belt. Then it cannot cover species that live on the seabed because the Republic of Croatia has its epicontinental belt and all the species that live on the seabed make up part of the natural resources with which only Croatia can dispose in accordance with Article 77. It's a shame, but the fact is that since 1968 when the Adriatic was divided into a Yugoslav and Italian epicontinental belt, and this Yugoslav belt is a moss... Croatia, that the Croatian state has never regulated the right to fish in an epicontinental belt or the right to foreign exploitation of fish living on our epicontinental belt. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All negotiations on marine fisheries are conducted only for fish species that are above the sea floor. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Those related to the seabed shall not enter into fisheries negotiations and may not be subject to foreign fishing. That's why it takes such a precise definition, and it's unfortunate that over the past 37 years we haven't defined what species are tied to the seabed and which are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-03-30-0.u35279	Please engage. We can vote. I'm asking for a result. 24 for the amendment, 8 abstentions, 70 against. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please engage. We can vote. The result? I find that, with 77 votes for, 5 abstentions, 30 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Your Honor, Agent Clem, what about your key? So get on with it, for God's sake.
