ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35734	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties – Proposer Frano Piploić, first reading, P.Z. No. 243 You received the proposal by mail, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law, Article 144, apply to the adoption of this Act. - 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Whether the applicant wishes to further explain the proposal. Here you are, dear representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35735	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Noting that the financing of political parties in Croatia has not been resolved in a systematic and transparent way and that this way as we now have in the financing of political parties is, in fact, often the outcome of various social anomalies and the difficulties we face, the Democratic Centre has drawn up this proposal for a law on the financing of political parties and delivered it to the Croatian Assembly for consideration. Since we have felt all the non-transparentity of this kind of existing financing of political parties in Croatia on our own skin and in its ranks, the Democratic Centre has come out with this bill wanting to warn the Croatian public about possible malversion and how money will go uncontrollably and how political parties come up with funds non-transparently in a way that can actually be difficult to control the flow of that money. Everyone knows the case that we as the Democratic Centre had where our former president tried to sell the place on the electoral list in the first constituency of the man who wanted it, he wanted it badly, however, with that eager desire he had the money and he paid that desire for it, however, such an example that we as a party faced probably has and certainly has in other parties that remained undiscovered. We wanted to show in our experience how, in one non-transparent circumstances, financing political parties instead of serving the general good can turn into a kind of general good, how it can turn into a mere trade, and in fact here politics tends to come down in this way in a kind of manipulation. Because if money is the one that will lead someone to a significant political function, which is not primarily knowledge, ability and willingness to serve this general good, then the future of such a society and relations in such a society is questionable. The Granić-Mreža affair was actually discovered thanks primarily to the greed of the protagonists, i.e. the intention of one in that chain to return the lost goat, since it lost the lamb to actually pay back the money. The discovery of this affair is not the fruit of one system, of systematic control. We hope that these cases will not be of the same protagonists in the future. I mentioned earlier that there must have been such examples in the current political campaigns, very little in public knowledge, mostly speculation and bickering. The area of financing of political parties in Croatia is essentially a very dark, dark area, strictly closed, covered by secrecy and often ghastly silence. Let us take the last example, the last presidential campaign, where, for example, opponents accused each other of transferring money to each other and the money they received during the election campaign. The second reason why we have proposed this Law is because in Croatia there are a large number of political parties that play a folklore role, they are more folklore than they have one relevant, which are relevant political factors. Often they have no basic living conditions for one political party, they don't have money, they often don't have personnel, they don't even have space, programs are often similar to that of an egg, they say, a clean one of the resor's copying schools. Furthermore, according to our project to fight and combat corruption, we at the Democratic Centre wanted to achieve this bill, to achieve one public to establish a common link between secretly donated money and later the secret giving of jobs and other benefits to those who gave that money. In the past financing of political parties, there is often no written trace of this money, often no political opponents should know how much money someone has received, anyone who gives this money thinks in a way that finds out who will then be influential may be of some use to me, etc. In the media, we see often examples of violations of competition institutes, when the whole process develops when it is discovered then we see the relationship between once money and work that someone later received past public competitions. Such a situation may be the worst at local levels. Furthermore, we want to get one quality social control and transparency in the financing of political parties, and whoever breaks those provisions, who would not want to adhere to such provisions, we have provided for a lot of rigorous sanctions. Furthermore, our intentions were to make it impossible for immoral and unfair individuals in political parties not to enter the tissues of society through parties, because later on, when they come into the tissues of society, then we have such a gift to care about and often do ourselves and not what we, as politicians and political parties, should do and do. We also wanted to test the political will of all of us here in parliament, our determination and willingness to make it clear to the law the ways and control of the financing of political parties. This can be seen, this bill can also be seen as an invitation to an effective action against corrupt politicians and many projects that are often used for corruption. And finally it is one test as far as we are prepared to admit that this is an untransparent way of financing political parties that is now in action that he is actually now a major source of corruption in Croatian society. I will briefly list some articles and why we have decided on such proposals in these articles. For example, in Article 8, we suggested that voluntary contributions made to any of the parties by either natural or legal persons, we have to issue an account or an invoice with one confirmation that these are the money or that this service is actually given. Furthermore, in Article 10, we proposed that the total voluntary contribution of one natural person to one political party should not exceed 100 thousand kuna in one year, and in Article 11 that a single legal person should not exceed 500 thousand kuna in one year. In the wake of the ban on funding, this is what our newspaper is here, in fact we wanted to highlight and thus ban the financing of political parties from the funds of companies, public enterprises, humanitarian associations, religious associations, etc. In Article 15, we listed the authorities of the state administration, the bodies of the units of local, regional and self-government, non-profit companies and associations, humanitarian organisations and religious organisations and how they cannot finance political parties. In Article 16, we proposed that companies and companies with invested public capital have 25% and more ownership shares in no way could be financed by political parties. What is also important in our view is that this Article 17 is that private companies and companies which perform business and services on the basis of contracts with the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other state administration bodies, local, regional and regional administrations or self-government companies or companies in which public capital has 25% or more of the shares owned in no way could be financed by political parties. We think that there are the most gaps in this section, in this part the most blurry, in this part the most drains the money, I don't know, we actually know who's going and how often you don't know. In the course of the criminal provision, we have provided significant penalties for those who violate these regulations. Why? Intentionally, because we wanted to cut off these corruption arms, which is often uncontrollably spreading with harmful consequences for society. Some of my colleagues who read this told me that these are a lot of dragon provisions, I agree they are Draconic, but you must agree that the Dracon situation regarding the spread of corruption, namely yesterday we heard about this pay phone here that over the past six months there have been one or six discussions, we have discussed corruption, that despite all these discussions, Croatia continues to grow on the scale of countries where corruption has grown significantly. In Article 29, we predicted that the money raised by the political parties in financial operations would be spent in a way that against the provisions of this Law would actually be taken away. In Article 30, that the severance of money is paid into the state budget and that it is actually intended for humanitarian purposes, and the humanitarian purpose would be determined by the Croatian Parliament during the debate on the findings of the State Office on the financing and financial operations of the political party concerned. In Article 31, we proposed that the full name of the political party, personal data and persons responsible for financial operations and data on natural and legal persons who participated in a financial offense be published in the National Journal. The publication will also publish the amount of the amount to be deducted, i.e. the amount of fines, the starting date and the end date of the payment deadline and the penalty. In Article 33, in the event that the political party does not pay the penalty in the determined amount and the time limit of the competent authority will delete it from the register of political parties. The day of publication on the removal from the register, the political party loses the status of a legal person and ceases to actually act on it. In Article 34 following the end of the political party’s operation, for the reasons set out in Article 33 of this Act, its former President, all members of its former administrative bodies and its former party agreed on financial operations may not be members of the management or bodies of other previously registered political parties or political parties established and after the end of the operation of their former party. The persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may again be members of the administrative bodies of previously registered political parties and political parties established after the end of the operation of their party, only after two years from the date of the expiry of their political party. Here's a colleague and a colleague, I assume you've read it and you've figured out why we're proposing this bill. We also wanted a debate in the Croatian Parliament to actively take action to prevent corruption and all of those sources of small and large resources that are enough in the field, according to the social being of Croatia to shut down these sources, and can only be blocked by such stricter laws and one quality enforcement of these legal regulations. This is an opportunity for colleagues and colleagues to start first of themselves so that we as politicians, or our political parties, as the main guides and society organizers, go first and say, let's start from us, let's define ourselves qualityly, and then we have the right to ask other factors in society to implement regulations. Because if we accept these provisions that I say some see as dragon measures, I believe that citizens will begin to trust us more and more, that they will return trust in politics as one activity that is of general interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35736	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee? On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35737	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament discussed a proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties at the 30th session held on 16 March 2005. The Committee discussed the proposed Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee respected the proposal's intention to regulate political party financing in an appropriate, legal and transparent manner. The Committee holds the issue of political party financing, should be comprehensively regulated and brought into line with the practice of European countries and Croatian legislation. In connection with what the Committee said, it proposed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submit as soon as possible a proposal for a Law on Political Parties to deal with the issue of financing of political parties. After the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed that the Croatian Parliament not accept this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35738	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a law that certainly points to a very important and important issue, which is the issue of financing political parties. Political parties and money, in any case, are interested in everything, and when we look at the regulation that we have in this area today, which is the Law on Political Parties, which was passed in 1993, which was changed on several occasions, we can actually argue that this issue has not really been fully and fully resolved with us. The 93th Law really cannot meet the requirements of 2005 and the situation in which we are located, which is indeed one time Croatia towards the European Union, one process of accepting the currents of the European Union and harmonising our legal system with it. And that is why this initiative is welcome, and that is why this law is welcome, which opens this issue to the Croatian Parliament, and I think it is not so important for the promoter whether he will be adopted today or not, but rather, it is important that we discuss this issue. We can't forget that last year we had an even more complete law in the procedure, the Law on Political Parties proposed by SDP colleagues, in fact the law that took part in the development of a legal centre and which also offered a number of solutions. And these two facts show that this problem is very important and that we really need to take certain steps in this segment. And it is in this very sense that what the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system said is that it is asking the Government to submit the proposal as soon as possible. And we believe that this issue would, of course, be unambiguously possible to resolve this by a special law, as the proposed colleague, Piploic, is going with a separate Finance Act, but it is possible to resolve it with one whole Law on political parties as it is today. It would be better for us not to go into more laws than to get rid of this whole law, because the Law on Political Parties itself can say that it has been a little time-consuming for us in relation to the social moment we are in, and that there is also a need to perform a certain remont, certain repairs of the changes and additions. The financing of political parties is also a great public interest for us, and we are seeing it right now in the press, actually, articles on how much the parties get from the budget that these funds are spent and that's actually very good. Because the basic foundation of party financing must be transparency and must be public. It's inevitable. And citizens need to be informed about how money is spent by parties, which are party revenues, and here I think we all agree, and here I don't think there should be any doubt. What is the situation in the Republic of Croatia today? I don't think we're giving up too much of the solutions that are in other countries. What is the trend outside and what is actually a recommendation of the European Union and what is actually a recommendation of both the Madrid Declarations and the Venice Group, which is actually that more and more sources of party funding are state budgets. Why is that? It is precisely to protect one independence of parties on various lobbys, on various stakeholders. And that's why it's absolutely good that the parties have their place in the state budget. That's exactly how it is with us. This is what we could see now in the papers, that in fact most of the revenues of our parliamentary parties are just coming from our state budget, which is basically the assumption of our independence that we are not under any pressure, that we are actually representing the interests of the citizens, that we are truly independent. And I have to say that both the Committee on the Constitution and the business system really opened the door wide and all these reports that the parties delivered to us we presented whoever showed interest, there were no problems at all, and in the end these inscriptions and they appeared. As far as the Law itself is concerned, the Law introduces a lot of these newspapers, and it offers really good solutions that are not disputed and we are absolutely certain that even one part of these solutions will be found in a proposal that we expect the government to submit to this House. Of course, there are certain nomotechnical errors, because the company is mentioned and so, or the company no longer as a legal form exists are companies. And I might have a little controversy with that provision in Article 33 where there is actually a ban on the members of those parties that actually came into financial troubles and things like that, I don't think I'm sure it would be a good solution, because it's a question of the credibility of the parties that these people who actually brought the party to ruin before and brought into some kind of financial distress and blockade, so there are a number of these issues that are emerging here and that we certainly need to seriously discuss, and I don't think we're in any kind of a big hurry about that. I think we have now next to that law that was on the agenda last year, and we have this one now. So we have one solid basis, one solid foundation actually to make a whole law after a professional comprehensive debate in which representatives of all political parties would really have to take a significant engagement because it's actually a law that would regulate both the rules of conduct and the financing of our parties. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support this law but, as I said, we cannot say that certain solutions of this law really deserve to be found in the bill of law that we expect from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The issue of party financing is really a question that concerns all of us directly. And finally, even the developed countries of democracy have not been spared the debate on these issues. We may look a little too much at them as far ahead of us, but let's remember all these affairs and Helmut Kohl in Germany, let's remember Bush with Enron, let's remember the late Betino Kraksi in Italy. In fact, these are all affairs stemming precisely from this matter, and that is why we are also interested in having this matter regulated in one correct way, in one way, in fact based on the rules of the European Union and there is, in particular, a significant one more time, that document, which I think is 1561, which is just the basic recommendation of a single balance of funding source where it is precisely required that an important source of funding be a state budget for the preservation and for the implementation of this principle of independence of the political party's work. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support but we really expect the government to put this issue on the agenda as soon as possible, but within the framework of a more comprehensive law, the Law on Political Parties, where this would be an important segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35740	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Željko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35741	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, on behalf of the HSS Club, I can say that we agree in principle with the adoption of a law on the financing of political parties. I think the need is obvious and it's good that one of the proposals came into legal procedure. But this proposal, according to us, has a lot of inadequacy and as such could not support it at this stage of adoption. Why wouldn't he? Well, first of all, articles predicting party financing suggest that it is possible to ask for donations from legal entities worth half a million kuna from individuals of 100,000 kuna. And this proposal shows enough what our position is today and in general in the public and some parties in general about corruption because today, if it is considered normal to ask for a donation to the party's work, and in one year, worth half a million kuna, it says a lot about what is the situation with us. You'll say, well, you're criticizing it and the state of your party. Here, I would point out the example of how we did it in HSS and how we look at such ways of asking for donations to finance party work. First of all, we have long limited that the maximum donation for the work of the Croatian Peasant Party can be from legal person to 100,000, from physical to 10,000 kuna. And that's what we stuck to at the time of the campaign, and then, and all this time and that way I think we wanted to be transparent, what we're talking about here. And in such a way we should and should all set up that the requested donations be minimal and that part of the party's work is financed as well as so far from the budget, clearly depending on the result. And in that part, I don't think it's a bad setting for a part of the local party branches to be also consistent with the result in a far smaller volume of funding from local budgets of municipalities and cities. In this way, we would avoid what we are often accused of politicians and in Croatia being corrupt not to behave, to lobby not with their parties, but with regard to some day-to-day political activities, and in fact, if we were to restrict the financing system then I think we would get one transparency and the public in the work. And each party should also publish its donors and donations that it receives in a transparent and public manner. I can tell from our experiences that the parties making donations to our party demanded in most cases over 90% that the accounts go normally through the jury accounts of that donation and that the public was present and did not bother them. Therefore, I think that lately in Croatia it is becoming more normal that if someone wants to donate someone to do so through the normal giro-account of the party and thus should behave in the future. Just because I say this part of the opportunity is achieved here as up to 500 thousand we would really not want to support such a bill although we agree in principle that it is necessary to pass a law on the financing of political parties whether under a special law, whether under the Law on political parties. And I believe in that part that the government will soon make one proposal that we could all be pleased with and that it really does come to a clear and recognizable transparency of all of us, not that someone can then call us or drag us by the sleeves which I don't think is intended for anyone. In that section, if this proposal comes to another reading and if it is corrected, then we can discuss it further. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35742	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Stazic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35743	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Piploic, colleagues and colleagues! The idea of this law to finally and legally regulate is one of the key elements of the political parties' actions, such as a clear display of their funding in any case is good and I am convinced that non-transparency in funding is one of the things most affected by our citizens and that is the most common cause of the unpopularity of politicians and their work in the public. That was also the reason the SDP has submitted an initiative to deal with this problem legally. Scandals and constantly present speculation about the financing of political parties and election campaigns in the Republic of Croatia are sufficient indicators of the need to better regulate the issue in order to prevent the fall of civil interest for active participation in political processes and increase citizens' confidence in the political system. The best evidence in favour of this issue is that it is necessary to regulate the growing abstinence of citizens in the elections of any kind. Under the current legislation, the financing of political parties has been processed in the Law on political parties in the chapter of the funds for the work of political parties. However, the existing law insufficiently norms the way parties are financed and does not ensure the principles of transparency and accountability of political parties. According to research by a non-governmental organisation from last 2004 which was conducted by an analysis of reports submitted in standardised forms used for the submission of financial reports by non-profit organisations for the needs of state audit and where all parliamentary parties were taken into account the results of the defeating process. It is enough to say that some parties, even up to almost 70% of total revenues, came from unknown sources. It's all about contributions, donations, stuff like that. What is not visible in these reports is the exact amount of donations as well as their sources. As one source of funding for political parties, they are obliged to publish a detailed financial report through which citizens can monitor not only how money is spent to the budget parties but also who the other donors of the party concerned can certainly influence their decision when voting in the elections. Similar issues have also arisen in the previous presidential campaign, which is related to its funding. In order to achieve the objective of this Law, or to ensure transparency in financing and to prevent suspicious donations, some changes should be made. For example. in Chapter 2, sources of funding that voluntary contributions cannot necessarily be cash only but also non-money. For example. where the donor donates to the party 3 computers, a provision should also be incorporated to prohibit the parties from receiving gifts without documents of origin and market value in order to avoid possible malfeasance or smuggling of equipment. In Chapter 4, voluntary contributions from natural and legal persons proposed to the ceilings of 100 or 500 thousand kunas are too high for me if I want to ensure the implementation of the provisions of Chapter 8 on the prohibition of pressure and promises to potential donors, because it seems unlikely to me that someone who donates, for example, may be. Five hundred thousand kunas don't want any favors. In Chapter 7, a ban on funding must be explicitly prohibited from anonymous donations and to regulate donations from abroad or should be prohibited or allowed, for example, to donations in the form of services, e.g. seminars, some foreign organizations or something. In Chapter 9, the accounts and accounts should include, with the sources of revenue, the amounts resulting from these sources in order to obtain complete funding data. To make the bill as good as possible and to remove the shortcomings of existing laws that cover this problem, cooperation and the contribution of all parliamentary parties are needed to ultimately make the financing of political parties more transparent than is now announced by this or similar law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35744	The word has a distinguished representative, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I've been seriously convinced to get into this home and so on. High politics can enter in two ways, one by political work is the one from village to village, from house to house as it is already done, we know that. Another is by reputation, therefore, by working in another area, so that a man acquires a broad social reputation and then engages him in his political party, because he already has that reputation somewhere. Now, my colleague Piploic explained it to me, and we finally read it in the newspaper that it exists in their party and in the third way by buying it. The aim of this Law is to praise such situations, to prevent non-transparent spending, not a transparent collection of money, finally so that voters know who they are dealing with. But no matter what good intentions and the road to hell is paved. Corruption is growing and these bill proposals will continue to grow. It will continue to grow for the simple reason that it is a good part of a machine for selling political fog. It doesn't matter what's in here, it matters what's not in this law. So the part that talks about the financing of the state budget is practically prescribed the current solution and there is no mention of what the whole of Croatia has been talking about for a few months about the crossings of so-called. Independent MPs, changing their status for as many and as many, hundreds of thousands of kunas. This is not at all mentioned by the promoter as if it did not happen, and that is what bothered the Croatian public. It seems absurd to me and a little hypocritical to determine the maximum amount that a natural or legal person can donate to a political party, so if now some of our Bill Gates wanted to donate to our stranger a billion kuna or two or three, we would have to thank him and tell him, no matter what you believe in our program, but it's really too much, we can't accept it, it doesn't make any sense, and our Law is so conceptd that we really can't accept something like that and I think it's hypocritical and unnecessary. The key is to know that it was our Bill Gates who put the money in the party register. So if you know that, if it's public then the services you would possibly forward from that money are disabled in advance. It is said in the Law that the method of spending the funds collected contrary to the provisions of this Act is sanctioned and it is not written that it is not written in the Law that the funds should be spent under this law. I don't know what's the opposite of what? It's illogical. It is also a convenient provision to delete from political parties, from the register of political parties that does not pay the penalty of the determined amount and within a specified time limit. The deadlines are different. I would be very interested in doing so in an example of political parties in power, regardless of which party, whether it is today HDZ, tomorrow SDP, the day after tomorrow HNS, the day before the day before that DC, or which, in what way, the proposer would do so. In the end and purely nomotechnically, I don't understand some expressions in the law, which means a non-profit company, a non-profit company is... The purpose of the company is profit, there are no non-profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are non-profit organisations, non-profit institutions but not non-profit firms, when the company is entrepreneurial, must be profitable. All in all, in addition to this expression, there are still a few expressions inside that are strange, so I compared this proposal to the Bosnian bill with the Bosnian law, it's very similar, it's written by him as far as I know... Even in our text of the Law is mentioned local administration and self-government which is no longer with us since local self-government and state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I don't think this article is worth the support in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35746	Thank you. Do the promoters want it final? Dear Representative Frano Piploic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35747	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would first thank the clubs and colleagues who have contributed to a public consideration of this situation and the problems we are in. No one is smart enough to say that there is no problem in Croatia that stems from such a non-transparent financing of political parties. So I thank the colleagues who saw it. For colleagues from the parties from which they come, it is precisely evident that this problem actually feels, that one, that one, is dosed by one consciousness in these political parties. That this problem is present and that it can, in some foreseeable time, unless it is controlled, lead to an explosion. At the Democratic Center, personally, it wasn't my intention to be exclusive, we just gave one idea, we gave one initiative, and we're glad that it is already accepted in this way, but with a proposal that within a year it should be passed, so, one new law, a whole law. We are actually satisfied with this, our intention has already been achieved with this and the support we have received from the two biggest parties, it actually guarantees that in due course we will have such a law. The Democratic Center is not a narcissistic political party, we don't think we're the smartest and the best, etc. But we felt it was our duty to make a proposal like this, to give this one initiative. I wouldn't like to talk about these specific examples now, file articles, here. I believe that in the future, those who prepare the new law will also take care of this bill and of that bill that the SDP has already submitted to these proposals that have been made here. However, he would have responded to fellow fellow respected counterpart Nikola Vuljanic that this is not the way to finance the party's Democratic Centre. Indeed not, my dear colleague. Don't twist the words, it really isn't. The Democratic Centre is like a small party of weeds, respected counterpart Vuljanic, the force to publicly acknowledge that it has revealed its president in one piece and it is known that the president has ended. If anyone is concerned with the provisions of these articles, this bill of ours, then it refers to a party, or club that you represent. We in the party don't have people who stole 10 here in Zagreb, bought 700 thousand kuna from the poor land, and then resold it for 10, 11 million kuna. We also do not have people who in a suspicious way have robbed many public companies throughout Croatia. People like that, because of people like that, the Committee of Conflicts of Interest has been formed, I'm not going to mention them here right now. Therefore, a respected colleague, if anyone was concerned, was referring to both you and the party, i.e. the Club you represent. Finally, I thank all my colleagues and colleagues for this support and I believe that within a year we will find ourselves in a more responsible, more serious situation and that Croatia will receive one law on the financing of political parties suitable for modern, modern, responsible Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35748	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35749	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague indicated that the party and club had done this and what was not true. If someone did, there are finally organs that will determine it, then it's done by an individual. No party business, no party business involved here, so I think that this kind of discussion is pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35750	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, this is what we've completed with the points that are scheduled for today. Now it's 15 o'clock vote. No, there's no proposal. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u35751	The proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, first reading, is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system as a home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law on the financing of political parties proposed by MP Frano Piploic for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government, the report of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall not be adopted. Please engage. Please vote. I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted by 99 votes for, 7 abstentions and 1 against. Selection of appointments and resolutions. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs, Mr Branimir Glavas, to explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u36724	Thank you very much. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the deputy member, the selection of members of members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Committee for Election and Appointment at yesterday's session, so on March 31st, at its 23rd session, proposes to the Parliament to dismiss the duties of the deputy member in the delegation of the Croatian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the magistrate of Neven Mimica. The delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe shall be elected as members of Dr Miomir Zuzul, the Master of Neven Mimica, and the deputy members of Mrs Jagoda Maja-Martincevic, and Mrs Zeljka Antunovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2005-04-01-0.u36725	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for this decision, please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 102 votes, with 2 abstentions and 1 against a decision made in the proposed form. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I hereby extend this session for the six, seven, eight, 13, 14, 15th of April. Because under Article 224(2), the Chair concludes the session as a rule when the session agenda is exhausted, the agenda of this session is not exhausted, so I hereby schedule this session. We will start with what we had announced, the proposal for a law on large cities, the proposal of MP Zlatko Kramarić, the law on the state election commission, representatives of Željko Pavlic, etc. Thank you very much. Continue on Wednesday. The session was interrupted at 1700 hours. ... - Proposal for a law on large cities – Proposer Zlatko Kramarić, first reading P.Z. No. 244 The legislator is representative of Zlatko Kramarić. [[The beginning of the session has not been recorded.]] The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and by the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. I would like to ask the proposer of the respected representative Zlatko Kramarić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
